  reliable
  process
management
       corporate social
  responsibility report 2015/16

phoenix group in figures




    key figures of the phoenix group                                     2011/12            2012/13            2013/14 5)          2014/15            2015/16

    revenue                                           in eur k         21,660,649         21,218,687         21,791,268         22,567,998          23,247,428
    total operating performance 1)                    in eur k         25,479,749         25,251,336         25,916,290         27,278,243          28,484,595
    total income 2)                                   in eur k          2,249,687          2,319,147           2,217,379          2,277,295          2,416,548
    profit before tax                                 in eur k            294,775 3)         230,723 3)          143,092            361,278            318,985
    adjusted profit before tax 4)                     in eur k            294,775            329,156             253,094            296,558            339,628
    equity                                            in eur k          1,935,623          2,103,800           2,161,841          2,481,491          2,726,468
    equity ratio                                           in %               26.1               28.7                29.4               32.1                  35.1
    net debt                                          in eur k          1,855,743          1,611,518           1,330,855          1,068,749          1,121,561
    company rating (standard & poor’s)                                        bb –                 bb                  bb                 bb                  bb+
    employees (total)                                                      29,038              28,698             28,555             28,922              29,745
    employees (full-time)                                                  23,850              23,932             23,850             24,153              24,842

    1)
       total operating performance = revenue + handled volume (handling for service charge).
    2)
       total income = gross income + other operating income (previous years 2011/12 up to 2012/13 adjusted due to changes in reporting).
    3)
       adjusted due to the application of ias 19r.
    4)
       adjusted for impairment losses on goodwill, effects resulting from the sale of financial assets, one-off effects related to the refinancing measures
       in 2012, expenditures associated with the phoenix forward optimisation programme, changes in pension schemes 2014/15 and 2015/16,
       it project costs 2014/15 and 2015/16 as well as expenditures associated with the minimum wage in germany 2015/16.
    5)
       adjusted due to the first-time application of ifrs 11.




g4­ec1



    economic value retained of the phoenix group                                                               2014/15            2015/16           deviation
    in eur k                                                                                                                                    from previous
                                                                                                                                                    year in %

    net turnover                                                                                             22,567,998         23,247,428                    3.01
    community investments                                                                                          2,031              1,759             – 13.39
    personnel expenses                                                                                        1,034,353           1,158,714               12.02
    operating costs                                                                                          21,119,765         21,725,836                    2.87
    payments to government                                                                                        73,364             95,031               29.53
    payments to providers of capital                                                                              99,225             78,025             – 21.37
    economic value retained                                                                                     239,260            188,063              – 21.40




reliable process management: quality relates to all of our processes. from the receipt of goods to their delivery,
our employees are trained to examine products carefully. mobile data entry (mde scanners) is used to support this process,
resulting in an error rate reduction of around 50 per cent since its introduction.

phoenix group:
link between manufacturer and patient




                                                               pharmaceutical
                                                                  industry




                                   patient                                                healthcare
                                                                                           logistics




                                           hospitals




                                 doctors
                                                retail                            wholesale




wholesale                                       pharma services                               retail



>   as a wholesaler, the phoenix                >        phoenix pharma services offers       >   in pharmacy retail, the
group ensures that the drugs and                a wide range of services along the            phoenix group is responsible for
health products of pharmaceutical               entire pharmaceutical supply chain.           directly supplying the general public
manufacturers are delivered to                  our business intelligence products            with pharmaceuticals and health
pharmacies and medical institutions             also help pharmaceutical manufac-             products. the comprehensive and
both quickly and reliably. the phoenix          turers to make better business                professional advice provided by our
group also supports independent                 decisions and to focus their attention        pharmacy staﬀ is of the highest
pharmacies in europe, oﬀering various           on the development and production             quality and is accompanied by the
services to increase customer retention.        of superior drugs. the phoenix                best possible customer service.
                                                group takes care of everything else.

we deliver health.
each and every day. across europe.




>       the phoenix group is a leading pharmaceutical trader in europe, reliably supplying people
with drugs and medical products every day. the phoenix group originated from the merger of
five regionally active pharmaceutical wholesale businesses in germany in 1994. today, the company
oﬀers unique geographical coverage throughout europe, making a vital contribution to comprehensive
healthcare with around 30,000 employees. the phoenix group’s vision is to be the best integrated
healthcare provider – wherever it is active. this means that each customer group is provided with the
best possible services and products along the entire pharmaceutical supply chain.


>       in pharmaceutical wholesale, the phoenix group is active with 153 distribution centres
in 26 european countries and supplies pharmacies and medical institutions with drugs and other
health products. numerous other products and services for pharmacy customers complete the
portfolio – from support with patient advice to modern goods management systems to pharmacy
cooperation programmes.


>       in pharmacy retail, the phoenix group is active in 12 countries with around 1,800 of its
own pharmacies – around 862 of which operate under the new corporate brand benu. in addition
to norway, the united kingdom, the netherlands, and switzerland, the company is also represented
in the eastern european and baltic markets. the more than 13,000 pharmacy employees have around
120 million customer contacts each year. they dispense around 260 million drug packages to patients
and advise them on issues concerning pharmaceuticals and general health.


>       pharma services provides services across the whole supply chain. the “all-in-one” concept
stands for a comprehensive range of services that benefits drug manufacturers, pharmacies,
and patients. the phoenix group takes on the entire distribution process for the pharmaceutical
industry as desired and with business intelligence oﬀers a first-class basis for decision making.

                                                                      1




         reliable
         process
       management
  the phoenix group ensures high quality
with respect to value creation, environment,
    employees, and society through the
        efficient use of its resources.




  contents
   2   letter from the executive board    58   facts and figures


   4   about this report                  64   gri g4 content index


   6   a leading and responsible          69   glossary
       pharmaceutical trader
                                          72   imprint
  17   csr highlights 201/16

  18   acting responsibly as a building
       block of corporate strategy

  22   our responsibilities
  24   added value
  32   environment
  42   employees
  54   society

2   letter from the executive board




    letter from the executive board




    oliver windholz                                                    helmut fischer
    chief executive officer                                            finance




                              dear readers,

                              the phoenix group is publishing its fourth sustainability report under the motto “reliable process
                              management”. it presents phoenix as an important link within the pharmaceutical supply chain and
                              demonstrates the quality with which the relevant processes are being implemented and improved.
                              furthermore, the report clearly reveals the progress being made within the company on the subject of
                              sustainability.

                              in the fiscal year 2015/16, we worked intensively on our csr goals across the group. we carried out the
                              first group-wide employee survey. now it’s time to identify specific measures for the individual areas of
                              activity and introduce them in all countries. our second objective was to reduce the illness rate, for
                              which a slight decline was already recorded in the reporting year. the new occupational health manage-
                              ment system is helping us to put even greater focus on the health of our employees. we are doing
                              everything we can to achieve our ambitious target of reducing the illness rate by one percentage point
                              by 2018/19. our third objective was to cut the costs associated with pharmaceutical waste, which we
                              did by 3 per cent compared with the previous year. the specific actions we have taken to optimise our
                              csr processes are described in the environment section, using the best practice example of our danish
                              subsidiary.

                              for the first time, this report contains our performance indicators across all regions in a two-year
                              comparison. to this end, we have further developed our csr processes and optimised data quality. this
                              was an important topic at our first international meeting of csr managers in february 2016.

                              our stakeholder questionnaire enabled us to define fundamental csr issues from the perspective of
                              our stakeholders and to add three further csr goals to our target programme for the fiscal year 2016/17.
                              we are going to give the relevant employees throughout europe online and in-person training on the
                              compliance guidelines. in germany, we are expanding our online training programme to include data
                              protection until 2017/18, and employees at all our sites will be invited to participate. furthermore, we
                              will draw up group-wide data protection guidelines by mid-2018.

                                                                                                  letter from the executive board   3




frank große-natrop                                                stefan herfeld
operations/logistics                                              retail




a challenging market environment, the good distribution practice (gdp) guidelines, and counterfeit
pharmaceuticals have had an influence on our day-to-day activities this year. we have been a strong
supporter of the securpharm initiative in its efforts to reduce counterfeit drugs by preventing them from
entering the pharmaceuticals supply chain. in future, sustainable principles will be incorporated into our
business processes wherever possible – including the phoenix group’s general procurement division.
sustainability criteria will be taken into account when selecting our suppliers and products in an effort
to take more responsibility for the supply chain. this allows us to strengthen our long-standing partner-
ships and to reliably manage our procurement processes.

the next step will be to roll out sustainability activities to other areas of the phoenix group, such as our
retail business. as a result, we will be able to provide a comprehensive picture of the phoenix group in
the future.

with this csr programme, we are successfully facing up to the challenges in the market and within the
industry. we feel confident about being well-prepared for the future – from an environmental, social, and
economic perspective – while also looking after the interests of our stakeholders.




oliver windholz               helmut fischer              frank große-natrop               stefan herfeld
chief executive officer

4     about this report




      about this report



    additional information     // this report contains information on the phoenix group’s sustain­
           can be found in
       the phoenix group       ability and relates to the fiscal year 2015/16. in preparing this report,
     annual report 2015/16     the phoenix group is guided by the recommendations of the global
             and online at
     www.phoenixgroup.eu
                               reporting initiative (gri g4) and the core option.   //


                               reporting principles
        g4-13, g4-17, g4-22,   this sustainability report covers the fiscal year from 1 february 2015 to 31 january 2016. it describes the
       g4-23, g4-28, g4-29,    development and the results of the phoenix group’s csr activities. this report builds on the corporate
       g4-30, g4-32, g4-33     sustainability report 2014/15, published in september 2015. the phoenix group publishes its sustain-
                               ability report on an annual basis. for the second time, the current report includes the key performance
                               indicators (kpis) from all of the subsidiaries and their domestic affiliates. for the first time, all key figures
                               are compared with those from the previous year. the report features company-specific indicators that
                               are significant to pharmaceutical distribution. through the use of examples, the report shows how the
                               phoenix group supports positive developments and how it has avoided or reduced negative impact.

              g4-20, g4-21     the phoenix group’s materiality analysis was used to select the most important topics with the greatest
                               relevance for the stakeholders. these topics are based on the analysis of the ecological, social, and
                               economic consequences that arise both inside and outside the phoenix group. the sustainability report
                               thus covers both areas, such that the only co2 emissions originating outside the phoenix group –
                               contained in scope 3 – stem from transport activities by subcontractors.

                               structure of the report
                               the sustainability report presents the significant advances made in the reporting period and is divided
                               into four core sections, consistent with the phoenix group’s areas of responsibility:

                                 added value
                                 environment
                                 employees
                                 society

                               compliance is an essential element of phoenix group’s corporate culture and so we moved the informa-
                               tion on compliance to the section on profile and strategy. additional information about the phoenix
                               group’s sustainability strategy and management as well as how the processes are controlled and inte-
                               grated within the company is explained in the same section. the “facts and figures” chapter presents the
                               consolidated performance indicators compared with the previous year’s and provides information on the
                               company’s progress. the gri index at the end of the report summarises the essential aspects and indica-
                               tors. related gri aspects will be shown next to each corresponding paragraph.

                                                                                                                                             about this report   5




          key definitions                                                                                                                   g4-22, g4-23


          the term phoenix group refers to the entire phoenix group as
          depicted in the annual report. there were no significant changes
          to the structure of the phoenix group in the reporting period.

          in relation to the environment, the key figures do not include data
          on the retail business; any deviations from the report boundaries
          for other key figures are indicated in the corresponding footnotes
          and in the gri index.

          countries were categorised by region.

          germany:
          including all subsidiaries such as transmed transport gmbh
          and phoenix pharma-einkauf gmbh; reported separately as
          home market

          western europe:
          great britain, the netherlands, france, switzerland, italy,
          and austria

          eastern europe:
          hungary, the czech republic, slovakia, croatia, bulgaria,
          macedonia, serbia, kosovo, albania 1), montenegro, bosnia and
          herzegovina, and poland

          northern europe:
          denmark, sweden, finland, norway, estonia, latvia, and lithuania




global reporting initiative (gri) is an international framework for sustainability reporting. standards for
csr reporting are divided for the purposes of sustainable development into three categories: economic,
ecological, and social responsibility. the gri aims to make sustainability reporting as prevalent and com-
parable as every other annual report published by companies.




1) the country was included in the data collection process for the fiscal year 2015/16 to ensure completeness. however, it is negligible

 in terms of key figures due to its size and its inclusion does not lead to any deviation or noticeable trends.

6    a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader




     a leading and responsible
     pharmaceutical trader


                              sustainable company management in all business units

                              // the phoenix group’s strategic focus is on giving its customers a high
                              level of added value, rigorous cost awareness, and profit-oriented growth.
                              at the same time, this goal is inextricably linked to our awareness of
                              social responsibility. the main objectives and principles are rooted in
                              the company’s csr strategy, which is implemented across borders and
                              assessed using key figures. //

                              profile of the phoenix group
    g4-3, g4-4, g4-6, g4-8,   the phoenix group is a leading european company in pharmaceutical distribution and one of the largest
        g4-9, g4-10, g4-17    family businesses in both germany and europe. our core business is pharmaceutical wholesale and
                              pharmacy retail. subsidiaries also operate in related business areas, and their activities complement the
     further information      range of services available to the pharmaceutical industry, pharmacy it systems, and logistics solutions.
      can be found in the     with more than 29,700 employees, we make a vital contribution to comprehensive healthcare.
     cover flap and in the
    current annual report
                              we are active in 26 european countries. as of the end of the reporting year, the phoenix group was oper-
             on pages 27 f.
                              ating 153 distribution centres and a total of 1,773 pharmacies as part of its core business – giving it a
                              wide geographic portfolio. as our largest market, germany makes up around one-third of group revenue,
                              which amounted to approximately eur 23.2 billion in the fiscal year 2015/16.

                              in pharmaceutical wholesale, the phoenix group is number one in ten countries. it operates its
                              pharmacy retail business principally in the uk, norway, the netherlands, switzerland, hungary, the
                              czech republic, and the baltic countries. moreover, we provide our expertise as a logistical service
                              provider to companies in the pharmaceutical industry.

                              our strong brand portfolio sets us apart in this respect. in wholesale including healthcare logistics, our
                              brands are phoenix, amedis, brocacef, comifar, el pharma, nomeco, and tamro. our pharmacy brands
                              are benu, apotek 1, and rowlands pharmacy.

                             a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader   7




a strong brand portfolio


our wholesale companies




our pharmacy retail brands

   8     a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader




                                                                          corporate
                                                                          philosophy
                                                               sustainable growth for value creation
                                                          committed employees for outstanding performance



                                            vision                            mission                           strategy
                                      be the best integrated                   we deliver                      dedicated to our
                                      healthcare provider –                   health across                    customers’ needs
                                         wherever we are                         europe                     committed to excellence




                                                                               values
                                          reliable                           proactive                          respectful


                                 corporate mission statement defines values
                        g4-56    since the introduction of the new phoenix corporate mission statement in spring 2015, its contents
                                 have been shaping the operations and communications of our company. the corporate mission state-
                                 ment, which makes our corporate philosophy, vision, mission, strategy, and values transparent, provides
                                 the framework of our daily actions.

         further information:    as a family business, the phoenix group makes its decisions independently and pursues a long-term
      www.phoenixgroup.eu/       strategy. our vision of being the best integrated healthcare provider – wherever we are – can only be
           en/phoenixgroup/      achieved with our motivated and loyal employees. they are the key to our success and the basis for living
corporate_mission_statement/
                                 up to our responsible tasks today and in the future.
            pages/default.aspx

                                                                                a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader          9




ethical principles along the whole supply chain
the phoenix group’s corporate responsibility spans the entire supply chain. on the one hand, we focus           g4-12, g4-14, g4-57
on our role as the link between manufacturer and patient. in other words, we focus on the reliable
delivery of drugs and medical products. on the other hand, we also have a responsibility towards our            further information
direct suppliers, who provide us with products and services for our corporate processes.                        can be found in the
                                                                                                                cover flap and in the
                                                                                                                current annual report
within the phoenix group, phoenix pharma-einkauf gmbh (ppe) is responsible for the procurement of
                                                                                                                on pages 28 ff.
trading goods for the whole of germany. for general procurement, ppe pools the group-wide require-
ments for non-trading goods, such as capital goods and services, on behalf of the phoenix group and its
subsidiaries.

the highest procurement volumes in this area include indirect material groups like transport, mainte-
nance and facility management services, materials handling, it infrastructure, energy, and vehicles.

we have cultivated long-standing partnerships based on trust with many of our suppliers. our supply
contracts ensure the necessary standards are met in terms of price, quality, and availability. they also
increasingly incorporate business ethics clauses. it is noteworthy that the standards of the phoenix
group are even more far-reaching than those of the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) in some                 see glossary, page 70.
instances. once a year we hold annual talks with our suppliers of framework agreements with a focus on
quality assurance as well as on the implementation of innovations. thus far, we have carried out audits
when necessary or as required by law, but not consistently for all suppliers. in future, we want to inte-
grate sustainability criteria to a greater degree in our strategic procurement processes, through the
selection of our suppliers or the products that we purchase. on that account, we set up a working group
at our last group-wide procurement meeting to develop appropriate proposals.

we also observe strict ethical standards in sales: it is a basic principle of the phoenix group not to offer
any products or services that are proscribed or even banned altogether.

sustainability integrated in all corporate processes
for the phoenix group, growth and corporate success are inseparably linked to social responsibility. we
want to be measured against this claim. issues relating to employees and the environment are therefore          g4-16
discussed in the context of the european girp and the german phagro associations. we have also set
ourselves the goal of integrating sustainability-oriented principles in all quality management processes
and our cooperation with customers, business partners, and employees. we plan to gradually extend
this process to all of our company’s subsidiaries. it is the internationalisation of our markets and varying
conditions in the countries in particular that represent a significant challenge in this regard – a challenge
we are meeting with a management structure established across the group, a csr programme, and
binding targets.

10   a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader




     26                                we operate in 26 countries.
                                       all countries are included
                                       in this report.




                                                                                         sweden
                                                                                                                      finland



                                                                        norway



                                                                                                                       estonia



                                                                                                                        latvia
                                                                  denmark

                                                                                                                   lithuania
                                 united kingdom



                                                    netherlands

                                                                   germany                            poland




                                                                                 czech republic


                                                                                                   slovakia
                                     france
                                                         switzerland           austria
                                                                                                      hungary


                                                                                         croatia

                                                                                         bosnia and       serbia
                                                                                         herzegovina
                                                                       italy
                                                                                          montenegro kosovo               bulgaria

                                                                                                                macedonia
                                                                                                     albania




       wholesale and retail: due to their complexity,
        key environmental figures were not reported
        for retail.
       wholesale (including healthcare logistics)

                                                                               a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader         11




company-wide management approach based on central areas of responsibility
our corporate mission statement forms the foundation of our csr strategy. our work is carried out to
the highest possible quality standards, going beyond merely satisfying applicable laws and directives,
and is guided by keen cost awareness.

    value added for customers and the company
the phoenix group ensures a reliable supply of pharmaceuticals across europe. in terms of value creation,
our established management systems therefore encompass strict quality management, which includes
a regular assessment of customer satisfaction, observing guidelines for good distribution practice (gdp),     see glossary, page 70.
as well as statutory regulations on handling medicines. in addition, we are developing the necessary
structures to meet the new directives on drug safety that will have to be observed in future. we are also
taking specific steps to satisfy compliance directives and data protection rules.

   environmental protection
when it comes to the environment, we are also applying our quality management system in compliance
with the gdp guidelines to reduce pharmaceutical waste. we are legally obliged to carry out energy            see glossary, page 69.
audits, which form the basis for energy efficiency measures in our buildings. the transparent analysis
of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions caused by the company makes us aware of ways in which we can
protect the climate and the environment. through the efficient use of building technology and a variety
of measures related to transport logistics, the phoenix group is striving to reduce its consumption of
energy and fuel as well as the associated co2 emissions.

   supporting employees
as a result of the new hr organisation introduced during the reporting year, it will now be possible to
manage personnel issues even more efficiently across europe. as a modern employer, it is our aim to
create an attractive and secure work environment for the employees of the phoenix group. we are
investing in international programmes for further training, talent development, and in the expansion of
occupational health management. our first company-wide employee survey is of great importance to
the phoenix group’s continuing development as an attractive employer brand. in addition to annual
employee reviews, the survey has also given our corporate culture a significant, fresh impetus.

   commitment to society
with regard to our responsibility to society, we have been making long-term investments in charitable
projects all over the world and supplement this through funding activities in the local areas and regions
of our locations. we focus on activities relating to children’s health and on promoting scientific advances
in pharmaceutical research. in germany, we are considering the introduction of a policy on donations
and sponsorship.

12   a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader




                                group-wide targets

                                to derive the specific measures to be taken within these areas of responsibility, the phoenix group has extended
                                its group-wide targets in 2015/16:


                                target                                                     due                  status           comments

                                reduce costs of pharmaceutical waste
                                by 10 % compared to 2014/15 1)                             2018/19                               page 32 ff.

                                reduce group-wide sickness rate from
                                4.47 % (2014/15) by 1 percentage point 2)                  2018/19                               page 51 ff.

                                improve employee loyalty by implementing
                                a group-wide employee survey 2)                            2015/16                               page 44 f.

                                training of employees within the focus group
                                (approx. 10 % of staff) on compliance guidelines           2016/17                               page 16

                                training of employees on data
                                protection guidelines in germany                           2017/18                               page 30

                                introduction of group-wide
                                data protection guidelines                                 05/2018                               page 30
                                1) the target definition refers exclusively to the phoenix group wholesale business.
                                2) employee-related targets include the entire phoenix group.



                                   target launched          on-going          target fulfilled        target not fulfilled




                             the phoenix group has identified specific measures within the respective areas of responsibility and
                             has added further group targets to the company-wide goals adopted in the previous reporting year. an
                             explanation of these targets and their current status is provided in the relevant sections of this report.

         country-specific    in addition to the targets for the group as a whole, we have also defined country-specific goals in the
        goals and specific   past year that are binding for the local companies and will be supported by them with specific measures.
       measures support      monitoring of progress towards these objectives will also take place at country level. the group-wide csr
      the achievement of
                             system will, in turn, document the degree to which the group targets are being met. since the markets
         objectives across
                             we operate in are very different in part, many topics are largely dealt with on a local level in accordance
                the group.
                             with our slogan “think together global – act local”. our group-wide uniform employee survey is however
                             a good example of how certain topics can also be centrally managed.

                             report contents based on materiality analysis
             g4-18, g4-19    with its four areas of accountability – value creation, environment, employees, and society – corporate
                             social responsibility (csr) has been integral to the phoenix group management since 2012. in the
                             course of a multi-stage materiality analysis in 2015, which was based on the gri g4 standard, we identi-
                             fied csr topics relevant to our company. the assessment took into account the expectations of internal
                             and external stakeholders as well as the standards the phoenix group sets itself for long-term success.
                             for the first time, this comprehensive materiality analysis was conducted for the entire phoenix group.

                                                                                                                                                a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader                13




      key csr topics are reflected in our corporate mission statement. the objective of adding value through
      long-term growth is the focus of our csr activities. therefore, we are giving particular attention to
      customer and quality focus, coupled with continuous cost awareness.


      materiality matrix of the phoenix group                                                                                                                                         g4-19


                                            high

                                                                                                                                           adherence to quality standards //

                                      4.7                                                                                                  comprehensive availability of
                                                                                                                                           pharmaceuticals




                                                                  collaboration to combat
                                                                  counterfeit pharmaceuticals
assessment by external stakeholders




                                                                                                           secure processing of customer data
                                                                                                                                                     observance of local
                                                                                                             respect for human rights
                                                                                                                                                     laws and guidelines

                                      4.6




                                                                                                      improvement of health/safety


                                                                      adherence to
                                                                      code of conduct
                                                                                                compliance with environmental legislation
                                      4.5

                                                                                                                                                                                        added value
                                                                                                                                                                                        environment
                                                   reduction of co2 emissions
                                                                                                                                                                                        profile and strategy
                                       moderate                                                                                                                                high     employees
                                                                4.5                             4.6                                  4.7                               4.8

                                                                        assessment by internal stakeholders incl. management




      the ten key areas of interest illustrated in the matrix provide a foundation for the phoenix group to                                                                           see glossary, page 71.
      further develop its csr topics and to align its reporting in accordance with the g4 version of the global
      reporting initiative (gri) standard. the corresponding gri issues relate to these areas of interest, on
      which the phoenix group reports at least one performance indicator.

     involvement of stakeholders in the selection of key topics
     we carried out our second stakeholder survey in october 2015. to begin with, we took account of the                                                                              g4-24, g4-25, g4-26
     issues that were seen as critical to the phoenix group in our last survey from 2014. an online survey
     was sent to more than 20,000 employees, suppliers, customers, subcontractors, and other business part-
     ners across europe. over a period of two weeks, more than 4,544 stakeholders participated in the survey,
     which equates to a response rate of 22.7 per cent.

14    a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader




                                     with the aim of identifying the most important fields of activity, we asked five questions about the
                                     four areas of responsibility, covering 35 sustainability issues such as working practices and conditions,
                                     products and services, as well as aspects related to the environment and the economy. the participants
                                     were asked to rate the issues in terms of their relevance to the phoenix group on a scale from “most
                                     relevant” (5) to “not relevant” (1).

                                     to identify the areas from a business perspective, we had further, separate discussions about the topics
                                     with internal managers from human resources, transport, compliance, engineering, and administration,
                                     as well as sales and quality management. the results were then considered with the executive board.



 stakeholder management of the phoenix group g4-27

 key stakeholder            basis for stakeholder selection             phoenix group’s approach to            key topics for stakeholder groups   gri
 groups                                                                 stakeholder engagement                                                     indicators 1)

 employees and              • crucial to operational                    • regular meetings with employee       • promoting health and              • g4-la6
 management                   performance                                 representatives                        safety in the workplace           • g4-so7
                              and value creation                        • communication and information        • compliance                        • g4-so8
                                                                          on key issues via newsletter         • secure processing of              • g4-pr8
                                                                          or intranet                            customer data
                                                                        • initiatives and projects in
                                                                          distribution centres
 pharmacies and             • needs and expectations                    • regular communication with           • product responsibility            • g4-so4
 hospitals                    critical to value creation                  customer representatives             • compliance                        • g4-so7
                                                                        • cooperation with associations        • secure processing of              • g4-so8
                                                                        • customer satisfaction surveys          customer data                     • g4-pr1
                                                                                                                                                   • g4-pr8
 pharmaceutical             • needs and expectations                    • regular communication with           • ethics and integrity              • g4-56
 companies                    critical to value creation                  customer representatives             • product responsibility            • g4-pr1
                                                                        • cooperation with associations        • secure processing of              • g4-pr8
                                                                        • management meetings about              customer data
                                                                          business development
                                                                        • customer satisfaction surveys
 business partners          • needs and expectations                    • regular meetings                     • product responsibility            • g4-pr1
 and subcontractors           critical to value creation                                                       • secure processing of              • g4-pr8
                                                                                                                 customer data
 1) this is relevant to indicators that are already reported this year and should be reported in the future.




                                     development and structure of csr management
                         g4-31       csr management is a top-level responsibility at the phoenix group. the chief executive officer assumes
                                     the overall responsibility for csr. it is his task to implement and manage csr across the whole group.
                                     the group’s csr team, which is part of the group communications department, reports to him. the
                                     team acts as the central contact on all issues relating to corporate responsibility and is responsible for
                                     integrating them into the operational processes of the phoenix group.

                                                                                        a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader      15




csr organisation within the phoenix group

                                                                                                                    if you have any
                                                                                                                    questions, please contact
 group level




                                         executive board of the phoenix group                                       jennifer opitz,
                                                                                                                    csr manager:
                                                                                                                    j.opitz@phoenixgroup.eu
                    group communications                                         group controlling
                                                                                                                    phone: +49 621 8505-8503




                                                 country management
 country level




                                local csr team is responsible for data gathering process.


                         local csr team from legal, hr, controlling, and/or quality departments.




data relevant to csr is compiled by local employees responsible for csr in the subsidiaries. the phoenix
group’s csr team checks the data for completeness, reliability, accuracy, and clarity before it is published.

the first group-wide meeting of csr managers was held in 2016 and was attended by representatives
from almost all of the subsidiaries. the main focus was on optimising data collection and standardising
the reporting processes. in line with our corporate culture, we also promoted the sharing of best practices.
this allows the exchange of successful ideas and their use across borders.

compliance guides daily activities
for the phoenix group, operating responsibly and according to the rules is a matter of course – in reaching         g4-56, g4-57
our operational and financial goals as well as in maintaining the trust of our customers, business partners,
and other stakeholders. the phoenix group expects its employees not only to follow the applicable laws
and regulations to ensure the legal basis of our business operations. it also demands respect for funda-
mental ethical standards. we uphold a zero-tolerance policy with regard to any possible infringements.

the code of conduct of the phoenix group defines the standards of behaviour expected of all employees.              further information:
it outlines the principles for interaction with customers, suppliers, competitors, and colleagues, as well          www.phoenixgroup.eu/
as other business partners in the social environment. the code of conduct thus establishes the parame-              en/phoenixgroup/
                                                                                                                    compliance/pages/
ters for positive and ethical coexistence – not just internally, but also outside the company.
                                                                                                                    default.aspx

by implementing compliance-specific frameworks, rules are defined in a clear and transparent manner.
our compliance guidelines are based on globally recognised standards as well as on applicable laws
and regulations such as the uk bribery act or the eu anti-trust law. the phoenix group’s central                    see glossary, pages 69 and 71.
compliance documentation consists of anti-corruption guidelines, the competition compliance policy,
and the code of conduct. the guidelines are reviewed on an annual basis and updated as necessary.

16   a leading and responsible pharmaceutical trader




                              implementation of compliance organisation
                   g4-so4     we have set up a group-wide compliance organisation to protect our company from the negative con-
                              sequences of corruption, bribery, and breaches of competition rules. the structure of this organisation
                              is as follows:



                                                            overall responsibility for the group-wide compliance system
                               group level




                                                                       executive board of the phoenix group



                                               group compliance committee                               group compliance manager




                                                   local compliance organisation introduced consistently in all phoenix countries
                               country level




                                                                              subsidiary management



                                               local compliance committee                                local compliance manager




          g4-58, g4-en29,     communication and training are essential for compliance
                  g4-so8      regular communication and training are prerequisites for a functioning compliance system. through
     see glossary, page 69.   e-learning modules and in-person training sessions, the respective employees learn about the topics
                              anti-corruption, competition compliance, and code of conduct. all employees of the phoenix group had
                              completed the e-learning courses by the end of the reporting year.

                              focus groups – which include all employees in contact with customers or suppliers, or those with the
                              authority to make business deals, as well as all managers – are additionally receiving in-person training
                              on compliance. overall, around 10 per cent of all phoenix group employees are involved. in the past
                              fiscal year, 60 per cent of those employees received in-person training, and the remaining number
                              should follow suit by the end of the current fiscal year.

                              introduced on 1 june 2014 and considered by the phoenix group as a valuable source of information
                              about possible risks and specific rule violations, the web-based whistle-blower system is in active use.
                              no fines or government sanctions were imposed on any companies of the phoenix group in the report-
                              ing period as a result of violations of legal regulations.

                              phoenix group takes human rights into consideration in its processes
                  g4-hr12     human rights are an important topic for the internal and external stakeholders, as well as the phoenix
                              group itself. the phoenix group confirms that it adheres to the principles of the united nations’ universal
                              declaration on human rights in the context of its corporate activities. phoenix rejects all forms of child
                              or forced labour. violations of any kind can be reported through the international whistle-blower system
                              for compliance and will be rigorously followed up. there were no reports of this kind in the reporting
                              year. among other activities, we are currently undertaking an analysis in purchasing to integrate compli-
                              ance with social standards in tendering processes. the issue of human rights in the supply chain is one
                              of those factors.

                                                                                 csr highlights 2015/16   17




csr highlights 2015/16



expansion of csr target                            first group-wide stakeholder
programme                                          survey

in this reporting year, we have added to the       the europe-wide survey was aimed at
existing group targets for social responsibility   customers, employees, suppliers, and business
and are currently pursuing six specific, measur-   partners, and gave them the opportunity to
able targets in various fields of activity.        voice their opinion on the most important
                                                   sustainability issues. the results are providing
                                                   us with valuable feedback for the selection
                                                   of future areas of activity.




first meeting of csr managers                      future-oriented hr agenda
in mannheim
                                                   the first international survey on employee
in february 2016, almost all of the csr            satisfaction was conducted in 2015. the
managers of the entire phoenix group met           hr organisation has been adapted to meet
for the first time. the meeting focused on         new challenges in further training, talent
developing a common understanding of               development, and occupational health
csr and on supporting the transnational            management.
exchange of ideas.




investments in logistics                           energy audit as basis for
                                                   efficiency increase
through comprehensive investments in
logistics, the phoenix group is targeting          in germany (and in other countries), the
significant quality improvements. in               phoenix group has implemented the
the reporting year the implemen­tation             provisions of the european energy efficiency
of state-of-the-art warehouse logistics            directive. in the course of this process, the
has begun.                                         company carried out standard energy audits,
                                                   which will provide the basis for further
                                                   increases in efficiency.

18   acting responsibly as a building block of corporate strategy




     acting responsibly as a building
     block of corporate strategy




     oliver windholz chief executive officer




                             interview with oliver windholz on sustainability
                             at the phoenix group

                             // responsible conduct as a central component of the corporate strategy.
                             oliver windholz, chief executive officer, discusses the challenges
                             of heavily regulated markets, counterfeit pharmaceuticals, and the
                             sustainability programme of the phoenix group. //

                                                            acting responsibly as a building block of corporate strategy   19




the new corporate mission statement represents a further milestone in the development
of the phoenix group. what role does sustainability play in this context?


oliver windholz: sustainable and responsible conduct are part of our daily work and an
aspect of our values, enshrined in our corporate mission. cooperation between employees
and business partners is based on a respectful, trustworthy, and proactive relationship.
through the efficient use of our resources, we ensure quality with respect to the environ-
ment, employees, and society. we are conscious of our responsibility in these areas of activity.
in the past fiscal year, we set ourselves the goal of conducting the first group-wide employee
survey, which we carried out successfully. we have also set ourselves two additional objec-
tives: to reduce our pharmaceutical waste and the illness rate by the end of 2018/19.


sustainable conduct requires economic strength and competitiveness.
what is your corporate strategy for commercial success?


oliver windholz: as a family business, we want to grow profitably and organically through
targeted acquisitions in wholesale and retail. our business model is focused on the customer
and quality, but also conscious of costs. we incorporate newly acquired businesses in all social
and environmental aspects of sustainability. when investing in logistics, we consider energy-­
efficient measures. with the building of the largest northern european logistics centre in
denmark, we are not only taking an environmentally friendly approach to construction, but
are also expanding our services in pre-wholesale and pharma services.


how does the phoenix group consistently manage to satisfy the strict legal
requirements in heavily regulated markets?


oliver windholz: laws and standards must be observed. there is no question about that. the
guidelines of good distribution practice (gdp), in particular, are our top priority. we base the
handling of up to 100,000 medical products and pharmaceuticals on these guidelines. our
compliance structures apply to the whole phoenix group and serve to make all employees
aware of specific issues and to train our focus group. we are also playing a role in the fight
against counterfeiting of pharmaceuticals. several years ago, we joined the securpharm
partnership programme in germany. this system will help to verify the authenticity of drugs
and identify individual packages.

20   acting responsibly as a building block of corporate strategy




                           people are at the heart of your business. in competing for the best ones,
                           what is the phoenix group doing to be an attractive employer?


                           oliver windholz: in the past year, we restructured our hr organisation. the new structure
                           will assist the phoenix group in improving our position as an attractive employer. the first
                           employee survey marked an important step for phoenix in this process. we asked all employees
                           of the group about their job satisfaction. the feedback was mostly positive, but there are also
                           areas in which we must improve. to this effect, we decided on specific measures at a local
                           level in consultation with our employees across the group. these will now have to be imple-
                           mented. i am pleased that so many of our employees offered their constructive feedback.


                           is that enough to satisfy your demand for skilled personnel?


                           oliver windholz: no. we have also initiated further important projects, such as extending our
                           talent management programme across the entire phoenix group. to the extent possible, we
                           want to fill our management positions from within our own ranks. in germany, a company-­
                           wide framework agreement on occupational health management was concluded for the first
                           time with the central works council. on the one hand, we made a commitment to promoting
                           the health of our employees as well as a positive working atmosphere. on the other hand, we
                           also aim to make the workplace even safer and conducive to health. our objective to lower
                           the illness rate by one percentage point will provide us with extra impetus.


                           how are you managing to strengthen the company’s unity across 26 european countries
                           and apply this group-wide?


                           oliver windholz: our focus is on further strengthening the cooperation between the sub­
                           sidiaries so that we can learn from each other. for this reason, we launched the warehouse
                           excellence initiative two years ago, for example. through this initiative, we have made it
                           possible for our employees to make continuous improvements to processes and exchange
                           information across the different sites. these efforts have been received very positively by the
                           employees. our new global intranet coin improves communication and cooperation between
                           departments and beyond borders. in addition, international meetings for all specialist depart-
                           ments contribute to the personal exchange of know-how, which makes it easier to transfer
                           best practices between countries. as a result, the phoenix group is becoming more efficient
                           and a culture of close cooperation is developing.

                                                           acting responsibly as a building block of corporate strategy   21




what role will responsible environmental and social conduct play in our
day-to-day activities in the future?


oliver windholz: in 2015, we conducted our first group-wide sustainability survey. more than
70 per cent of our stakeholders and management agreed that responsible conduct is an
essential component of our corporate strategy. as we grow, we try to make energy-efficient
investments wherever possible. the introduction of led technology at our distribution
centres, for instance, demonstrates that while we are significantly reducing our consumption
of energy, our employees are working under more pleasant lighting conditions at the same
time. the new group data protection division is overseeing phoenix’s compliance with
all data protection requirements to protect both our customers and our employees. our
compliance guidelines provide us with a framework for action and thus security in a heavily
regulated market.


what are the company’s specific objectives in the next few years?


oliver windholz: we have added two new areas of activity to our sustainability programme.
by the end of the current fiscal year, we will have trained all employees who need to be aware
of certain compliance guidelines in their daily work. we are also expanding our data protec-
tion training programme. by the end of 2017/18, all employees in germany will be given
appropriate training. we have set ourselves the goal of adopting group-wide data protection
guidelines by may 2018. the successful integration of our acquisitions will be another feature
of the coming fiscal year. as you can see, we have a lot planned in 2016 to keep the phoenix
group on the road to success during this fiscal year and to make further steps towards
becoming the best integrated healthcare provider. together with our management, our
employees, and the advisory board, we are working as one: experienced, motivated, dedi-
cated, and committed to achieving results.

responsibility

society
                 responsibility

                 added value

responsibility

employees
                 responsibility

                 environment

24   our responsibilities




                             added value                                                                  01


                             focus on long-term profitable growth

                             // customer orientation and quality take centre stage
                             // risk-based assessment of all processes
                             // commitment to greater drug safety
                             // expansion of data protection activities



             see also our    with regard to its economic responsibilities, the phoenix group is continually faced with new challenges.
          supply chain in    the political pressure on many healthcare systems requires additional savings, and it is expected that
           the front flap.   wholesale and retail margins will be further squeezed. we are therefore concentrating on expanding our
                             own ranges and on intensifying cooperation across borders. having local expertise at hand within the
                             group means that we can address the regional differences prevailing in the european pharmaceutical
                             markets.

                             in the course of our materiality analysis, we identified the topics that are of particular significance to our
                             value creation. these issues include adherence to quality standards, comprehensive availability of drugs,
                             secure processing of customer data, as well as the collaboration to combat counterfeit pharmaceuticals.
                             consequently, we are giving these areas more attention.

                                                                                                                           added value       25




adding value – targeted acquisitions in wholesale and retail are part of the phoenix group’s strategy for growth.




we are continuously increasing the high level of quality and safety of our products and services through            g4-12, g4-13, g4-14
strict quality management. in doing so, our focus is on customer satisfaction in particular, which we
assess on a regular basis, and on compliance with statutory requirements. observing the guidelines for
good distribution practice (gdp) in all companies is central to these efforts. in the field of drug safety, we      see glossary, page 70.
are involved with various organisations and initiatives across europe and are working to develop the
necessary structures to comply with stricter directives in the future. we are also continuing to develop
the field of data protection and striving to apply europe-wide regulations across the entire phoenix
group. the appropriate structures are currently being implemented.

corporate strategy targets long-term growth
we want to create value in the long term through a customer-oriented corporate culture, rigorous cost
awareness, and profit-oriented growth. in addition to the successful integration of our acquisitions and
the realisation of major investment projects, the expansion of the business segments wholesale, retail,
and pharma services plays a key role.

throughout all business units, the phoenix group continuously implements best practices across
europe. in addition to group-wide initiatives, the group particularly benefits from process optimisation
measures carried out successfully on a local basis, which then serve as a starting point for improvement
measures in other countries.

acquisitions strengthen the core business
the phoenix group’s growth strategy comprises not only organic growth but also targeted acquisitions
in wholesale and retail. in taking over sunpharma pharmacies in slovakia, we entered a new retail market
in 2015. in line with the rebranding as benu pharmacies, we will also continue our selective expansion
of benu’s market presence in central and eastern europe. our dutch company brocacef groep has
received approval by the relevant competition authorities to acquire the mediq apotheken nederland bv.
in addition to pharmacies and pharmaceutical wholesale, this acquisition also includes pre-wholesale                see glossary, page 71.
activities. as a result, we will attain an integrated market position as a link between manufacturer and
patient, and we will be able to cover the whole range of services in the netherlands.

26     our responsibilities




                                 our takeover of novodata, on the other hand, has already been approved by the hungarian competition
                                 authorities. this company is the market leader for goods management and till systems for pharmacies in
                                 hungary. the takeover strengthens the position of the phoenix group on the hungarian healthcare
                                 market. the expenditure related to acquisitions in the reporting year totalled eur 52.3 million.

                                 conversely, we have sold off our 60 per cent share in 21 pharmacies in italy. in the past year, these divest-
                                 ments amounted to eur 11.0 million.

                                 investments in logistics improve quality
                                 the phoenix group has once again made considerable investments that will add value. the main
                                 emphasis of these investments was on increasing productivity. modernising buildings therefore also has
      see glossary, page 69.     positive consequences on energy efficiency. in may 2015, we began the implementation of a state-of-
                                 the-art warehouse logistics system in skårer, norway. thanks to this new automation technology, the
                                 phoenix group is able to achieve high levels of storage density and significantly increase productivity.
                                 this innovative system is one of the leading and most technologically advanced in warehouse logistics
                                 and is already operating successfully at other phoenix group locations, including eindhoven in the
                                 netherlands. we plan to introduce this technology in sweden in the coming reporting year. in this
                                 way, we will further improve the supply of pharmaceuticals and create an optimal network for all of our
                                 customer groups.

                                 profitable growth continued
                                 despite the challenging environment, the phoenix group has once again succeeded in further strength-
                                 ening its position as a leading healthcare provider in europa in the reporting year, recording stronger
                                 growth than the market overall. revenue rose by 3.0 per cent to eur 23.2 billion in the fiscal year 2015/16.
                                 our total operating performance for the pharmaceutical wholesale business grew by 4.4 per cent to
                                 eur 28.5 billion. furthermore, we were able to increase our operating result (ebitda), adjusted for special
                                 items, by 6.2 per cent to eur 511.3 million. this includes the contribution made by the phoenix forward
                                 programme. some of the savings were generated through the measures we were able to implement, for
                                 example with the warehouse excellence and indirect procurement initiatives. we are continuing with
                                 both of these initiatives in the current fiscal year. due to the successful implementation of the it reinvent
                                 project, we have also centralised our it infrastructure and have thus made a further significant contribu-
                                 tion to improving quality and efficiency.

                                 quality management is an on-going process
               g4-15, g4-pr1     impeccable quality in the supply chain is the foundation for a safe and reliable supply of pharmaceuticals:
                                 from product storage in accordance with regulations to accurate deliveries to pharmacies and hospitals
                                 through to optimal product availability for end consumers. all of the companies of the phoenix group
       see glossary, page 70.    follow the guidelines for good distribution practice (gdp) as published by the eu. it is their duty to
                                 operate appropriate quality systems in order to ensure that medicinal products are stored, handled, and
       all subsidiaries of the   distributed in accordance with relevant local legislation. quality management at the phoenix group is
     phoenix group comply        risk-based and performed according to gdp requirements.
     with the european gdp
        guidelines and local
                                 training is an important tool when it comes to the consistent implementation of quality management
                 regulations.
                                 (qm). the phoenix group gave training in quality management to all relevant employees, decentralised
                                 qm representatives, as well as all affected managers during the fiscal year.

                                                                                                                          added value    27



focus on drug safety




drug safety is essential – as part of the securpharm initiative, special matrix codes are generated to
prevent the counterfeiting of pharmaceuticals.




phoenix group
is committed to drug safety
the trade in counterfeit pharmaceuticals is booming. in 2015           the batch number and expiration date. the data will be
alone, customs officials in germany seized four times as               stored in a database by the manufacturer and verified on
many counterfeit pharmaceuticals as in 2014. the majority of           delivery to the pharmacy.
the 3.9 million tablets seized across germany came from
china, india, and thailand.                                            back in 2011, the german initiative securpharm began imple-
                                                                       menting the anti-counterfeiting guidelines, which were then
but an end is in sight. the eu commission published the third          put to the test from 2013. the phoenix group was closely
stage of the european falsified medicines directive (fmd)              involved in the wholesale perspective of this process. we are
2011/62/eu on 9 february 2016. countries now have three                also active in other organisations on a european level, such as
years – until february 2019 – to make the guidelines legally           the european stakeholder model (esm) that succeeded to
effective across the whole of europe. this represents one of           european medicines verification organisation (emvo). esm is
the largest infrastructure projects in the supply of pharma-           a stakeholder initiative that aims to protect patients against
ceuticals that has ever been put in motion. in germany, this           counterfeit pharmaceuticals.
affects around 500 pharmaceutical companies, about 20,000
pharmacies, and all pharmaceutical wholesalers.                        the phoenix group believes it is essential that a high level of
                                                                       drug safety and availability is permanently guaranteed. we
over 700 million packs of prescription-only drugs a year will          have already started to make preparations for future require-
have to be printed with a so-called data matrix code, which            ments – after a thorough internal assessment, we are now
will incorporate a product code, the serial number, as well as         laying the relevant technical foundation.

28   our responsibilities




 flawless supply chain – from product storage in accordance with regulations to accurate customer deliveries,
 quality is the highest priority of the phoenix group.




                              introduction of new management systems
     see glossary, page 71.   the introduction of the new din en iso 9001:2015 was a priority in the reporting year. this standard
                              superseded the previous din en iso 9001:2008 in autumn 2015. the incorporation of the quality man-
                              agement system into the organisation’s strategic orientation and the expansion of target groups are
     see glossary, page 70.   notable among the new features. we also introduced the failure mode and effects analysis (fmea). this
                              target-oriented method identifies possible failures at an early stage, evaluates subsequent risks, and
                              then develops countermeasures to avoid them – resulting in further improvements in quality.

                   with the   in addition, a new delivery tracking system went into operation at two test locations in germany and in
     track & trace system,    sweden at the start of january. as part of the track & trace system, all items being transported are
       the delivery quality   scanned at various points along the supply chain, receiving a time stamp on each occasion. the location
               of phoenix
                              of a particular transported item can thus be traced at any time, resulting in another improvement to
          will be improved
                              delivery quality. we aim to incorporate this delivery tracking system in all distribution centres in
              even further.
                              germany and sweden by the end of 2016.

                              warehouse excellence initiative also focuses on quality
                              our warehouse excellence (we) initiative, launched in 2013, has since been expanded to over 115 sites
                              across the entire phoenix group. the initiative centres on making continuous improvements to quality
                              and performance in our distribution centres. ergonomics and safety play a major role in this. in the
                              reporting year 2016/17, the focus will be on quality issues with the aim of increasing service levels and
                              reducing picking errors as well as expired or damaged goods. using a new system – impact – the
                              improvements in quality can be exactly recorded and reported.

                                                                                                                              added value        29




improved transport quality management
our subsidiary transmed, which is responsible for transport, also upgraded its quality management
system in the past year and now fully implements the gdp guidelines. to this end, we have analysed the                 see glossary, page 70.
structure of our transport routes and have invested in temperature-controlled delivery vehicles wherever
necessary. by ensuring that environmental conditions remain constant, these vehicles prevent the
lasting impairment of quality, as stipulated by the eu within the gdp framework. in austria, we meet the
requirements of the code for transporting pharmaceuticals. in the czech republic, hungary, slovakia, and
serbia, all delivery vehicles are temperature-controlled and specially insulated to fulfil the demands of
the gdp guidelines. in sweden, the czech republic, croatia, and bosnia, all transport vehicles have
already been converted to temperature monitoring.

customer satisfaction is regularly assessed
as stated in our corporate mission, the needs of our customers are central to the phoenix group’s activ-
ities. regular customer surveys help to maintain a strong customer focus and therefore high levels of
customer satisfaction. in the past year, numerous customer surveys were once again conducted in various                timely insight into the
countries, including denmark, italy, austria, germany, macedonia, serbia, bosnia, and herzegovina, as                  needs of our customers
well as the czech republic and the united kingdom. questions of the surveys covered a variety of topics,               through regular
                                                                                                                       customer surveys
such as customer retention, items relating to distribution and operations, complaint management,
                                                                                                                       in all subsidiaries.
as well as current issues like the phoenix group’s new pharmacy services. our danish subsidiary
performed particularly well when compared with other european countries. at a level of 92 per cent,
customer satisfaction in denmark was very high and significantly above the market average.

the results obtained from the surveys are being used to develop specific recommended actions and
improvement measures. in the coming reporting year, we plan to carry out additional surveys and imple-
ment steps to improve our services in various countries.


customer satisfaction 1) across countries

in %
          92
                                                                   88            85
                  72                                                       75
                        66                                                                     67      64
                                                                                       63
                                      50                                                                     53
                               48
                                              41                                                                  44
                                                     35
                                                            31




         den      aut   uk    ned     ger     ita    sui    fra    hr      mkd   hu    srb     bih     cze   bg   sk

     scandinavia/                western europe                                       eastern europe
    baltic countries
1) percentage of extremely satisfied customers within the phoenix group.

30      our responsibilities




                                 data protection gains more importance
                      g4-pr8     in their feedback to the surveys, stakeholders also identified the subject of data protection – protecting
                                 individuals from the misuse of personal data – as being particularly important to the phoenix group.
                                 one of the biggest challenges in this respect is maintaining a clear overview of the ever-changing
                                 parameters due to new laws, directives, technology, and court rulings. alongside our involvement in
                                 other organisations, the phoenix group is represented in the german association for data protection
                                 and data security (gdd) and regularly exchanges ideas and information with other interested parties
                                 through this forum.

                                 data protection systems optimised
     the new data protection     to reflect the increasing importance of this subject, the phoenix group appointed a data protection
         officer monitors our    officer for the group in september 2014, who also heads the data protection division of the group as of
     compliance with all data    june 2016. in her role as data protection officer, she acts independently, reports directly to the executive
       protection guidelines.
                                 board, and is particularly responsible for ensuring that all data protection guidelines are being met. in
                                 germany, this principally entails adherence to the german federal data protection act (bdsg).

                                 across the group, we also have data protection officers working in many countries to ensure that the
                                 applicable national statutory requirements for data protection are being observed and that no data
                                 is accessible to unauthorised third parties. there were no reports of customer complaints relating to
                                 privacy protection in the reporting year, nor any data protection infringements.

                                 with the goal of continuously improving data security, new guidelines for phoenix in germany were
                                 introduced on 1 march 2016, replacing our existing data protection guidelines from 2008. these new
                                 guidelines include general regulations on data protection in the workplace in order to protect data
                                 belonging to the phoenix group.

           employees will be     to raise more awareness among our employees, we will offer them specific data protection training.
      trained on the topic of    as part of the training measures, they will acquire basic knowledge about the broader application of
       data protection in the    the federal data protection act and about data protection at their workplace. we are also planning
     future. data protection
                                 online training for all employees in germany who have access to computers at work. as stated within our
     will also be coordinated
                                 csr objectives, all employees in germany are asked to complete this online training by the end of the
                across europe.
                                 fiscal year 2017/18.

                                 standardisation of data protection across europe
                                 in may 2018, the european general data protection regulation will come into force. it will standardise
                                 the rules governing how companies and public entities across the eu process personal data. on the one
                                 hand, this is to ensure the protection of personal data within the eu. on the other hand, it will allow for
                                 the free flow of data within the european single market. in future, the phoenix group will therefore
                                 coordinate its existing activities in the field of data protection on a europe-wide basis. the phoenix
                                 group is thus setting itself the additional goal of adopting a set of internal guidelines that will be valid
                                 across the group by the indicated time at the latest.

                                                                                                                           added value   31




tips for data protection at work

let’s get it right!

1.   never give another person your
     user ids and passwords! not even
     your colleagues and supervisors.
                                                                                            10.    avoid saving any data on the
                                                                                                   local hard drive! if the hard
                                                                                                   drive is destroyed, all of the
                                                                                                   data saved on it will be lost.
                                                                                                   please save data onto the serv-

2.   use secure passwords! do not use
     names of spouses, children, pets,
            or your date of birth. use at
                                                                                                   er via the network.



                 least eight characters,
                    including upper- and
                      lower-case letters,
                       numbers, and spe-
                                              6.    address internal post envelopes
                                                    correctly! for confidential infor-
                                                    mation (e.g. payslips), use window-
                        cial characters             less envelopes and mark them as
                        (*, #, §, $, %, &).         “personal/confidential”.




                                              7.   do not send unsecured confiden-
                                                   tial information by e-mail or fax!
                                                   do not send any confidential infor-
                                                   mation to third parties (e.g. staff or   11.   hold confidential conversa-
                                                                                                  tions in private! whether with

3.   always lock your computer and
     your door when you are away
     from your desk! never leave files
                                                   customer data) without additional
                                                   security measures (e.g. password,
                                                   encryption, etc.). send documents as
                                                                                                  customers, colleagues, or em-
                                                                                                  ployees, and whether in person
                                                                                                  or over the phone, please find a
     and documents lying around!                   pdf files.                                     quiet place for confidential con-
                                                                                                  versations.



                                              8.   do not activate automatic read
                                                   receipts for e-mails! this encour-
                                                   ages spam.                               12.   data economy. process only
                                                                                                  personalised data needed for
                                                                                                  your work! delete data that
                                                                                                  you don’t need any more (and

                                              9.    do not use open mailing lists!
                                                    address e-mails to recipients out-
                                                    side of phoenix to yourself and
                                                                                                  that no longer has to be stored).



                                                    enter all recipients as “bcc” so as

4.    exercise caution with visitors
      or third parties! ask for their
      names and who they are looking for.
                                                    not to reveal any e-mail addresses
                                                    of customers, etc.

      escort the person to the requested
      colleague. ensure privacy protec-
      tion for your desk and position your
      screen accordingly.




5.   dispose of or destroy documents
     properly! important documents that
     are no longer needed (including un-
     wanted printouts/photocopies) should
     not end up in the bin. instead, they
     should be disposed of in secure waste pa-
     per containers or destroyed with a document shredder.

32   our responsibilities




                            environment                                                           02


                            effectively protecting the environment and climate

                            // objective: reduce pharmaceutical waste
                            // energy audit sheds light on opportunities for optimisation
                            // green energy initiatives launched
                            // efficient transport concepts implemented



                            the phoenix group is fully committed to its responsibility for environmental protection. reducing
                            pharmaceutical waste is one of the most important fields of action, since it not only comes at a high
                            cost to the company, but also poses an ecological threat.

                            our employees receive regular training in the application of the gdp guidelines for handling pharma­
                            ceuticals, both at our distribution centres and during transportation. these efforts also help to avoid
                            damage to packaging and will get us closer to achieving our goal of cutting the cost of pharmaceutical
                            waste by 10 per cent by 2018/19.

                                                                                                                   environment         33




we are increasing our investment in effective energy monitoring. at the end of 2015, we successfully
carried out the energy audit as required by the european energy efficiency directive and the german law      see glossary, page 69.
on energy services and other energy efficiency measures. the results of this audit have revealed detailed
information about appropriate optimisation measures, some of which we are already implementing,
such as the use of led lighting technology.

the phoenix group is also engaged in various efforts to protect the climate, for example through the
increased use of renewable energy sources to supply power as well as an economical and efficient trans-
port logistics system.

significantly reducing pharmaceutical waste
the phoenix group transports and stores around ten million pharmaceutical packages every day. due            g4-en23, g4-en27
to technical problems and human error in our processes, it is not always possible to avoid damage. to
­preclude risks to health and the environment, pharmaceuticals with damaged packaging are categorised
 as hazardous waste by law. they must be withdrawn from the supply chain and disposed of in accord-
 ance with regulations.

within the phoenix group, we registered 1,203.55 tonnes of pharmaceutical waste in the reporting
period, an increase of almost 9 per cent in comparison with the previous year. this is due, on the one
hand, to the 3 per cent increase in revenue. on the other hand, patients in most countries, especially in
northern europe, return damaged and expired products to the pharmacies. these products are then
disposed of by wholesalers, which means that the amount of pharmaceutical waste cannot be fully
controlled by our company.

nevertheless, the phoenix group wants to avoid pharmaceutical waste from the outset. we have set             the phoenix group
ourselves the target to reduce the cost of pharmaceutical waste by 10 per cent by 2018/19, in comparison     wants to reduce the
with the 2014/15 figures. in the reporting year, the costs incurred amounted to eur 33.5 million,            cost related to pharma-
                                                                                                             ceutical waste by 10 %
which is the equivalent of 0.14 per cent of our total revenue. in the previous year, the costs amounted to
                                                                                                             by 2018/19.
0.15 per cent of revenue, which indicates a reduction in relative terms.


pharmaceutical waste by region

in tonnes
                                                                                  765

                                                                            618




                    185                                  198   177
                                            151                                                 2014/15
                          111         106                                                       2015/16



                    germany            western             eastern           northern
                                       europe              europe             europe

34   our responsibilities




 continuous waste prevention – employees receive regular training in avoiding defective goods
 in their day-to-day work, from incoming goods to transport.




                             set of measures to minimise risks
     further information     within the scope of quality management, we use standard practices and operating procedures to reduce
        about the danish     the risk of damage to packaging as much as possible. this primarily entails training employees at our
         initiative can be   distribution centres, including special information campaigns as have been successfully developed by
       found on page 36.
                             our danish subsidiary nomeco, for instance.

                             in particular, employees in all our subsidiaries must observe and implement the rules in accordance with
                             the gdp guidelines. the most important requirements in the distribution centres include:

                                andling packages with care
                               h
                               visual inspection that packaging is undamaged
                               verifying identification on address label
                               protecting products from excessive heat, cold, and humidity

                             in some countries, employees are regularly informed in meetings about the cost of products that were
                             damaged or expired in the previous weeks. employees are thus more aware and sensitised. furthermore,
                             it is possible to compare the distribution centres on the basis of the cost analysis.

                             transmed drivers must also take care that packages are not damaged during transportation. packages
                             therefore have to be carried with both hands and should never be loaded onto vehicles on end or tilted.
                             likewise, containers must be stored upright to prevent liquids from leaking out. strapping around trans-
                             port crates should not be removed. packages also need to be secured with tensioning straps, for example,
                             to avoid shifting during transportation.

                                                                                                                            environment   35




proper handling of non-hazardous waste
besides hazardous waste, company processes also generate other waste materials that are not classified
as hazardous. these include plastics, paper and cardboard, waste from power generation, and mixed
waste that is consigned to special waste facilities for proper handling. biodegradable waste is allowed
to decompose naturally wherever possible. in total, over 20,000 tonnes of non-hazardous waste is
generated annually, which is mostly recycled at all of the subsidiaries of the phoenix group.


non-hazardous waste by region

in tonnes
                       8,380     8,405



                                             5,663 1)    5,456

                                                                                                         3,852
                                                                                               3,502
                                                                       2,462      2,317
                                                                                                                 2014/15
                                                                                                                 2015/16



                          germany                 western                   eastern               northern
                                                  europe                    europe                 europe
1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

 report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
 there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.




disposal methods for the phoenix group’s non-hazardous waste



                                    13 %
               18 %

                                                                  in tonnes                                       2015/16
                                                                      reuse                                         2,618
                                                                      recycling                                    13,829
                                                                      other forms of waste disposal 1)              3,584
                                                                                                                   20,031

                                      69 %


1) including treatment plants and composting.

36   our responsibilities




      waste reduction in denmark




                                                                                          avoiding mistakes – the information
                                                                                          campaign aims to prevent mistakes
                                                                                          and associated costs.




      nomeco:
      information campaign to reduce waste
      it is easy to make mistakes when handling pharmaceutical                                           detecting and dealing with
      packages. they can be dropped or perhaps scratched when a                                          mistakes at an early stage
      knife is used to open a box. damage can also occur if the                                          the aim of the campaign is to
      forks of a forklift truck are not lowed properly when lifting a                                    tackle errors in the flow of
      box off the pallet. in denmark, nomeco has demonstrated                                            goods at an early stage. it is
      that particularly targeted information campaigns in distribu-                                      based on the factors that
      tion centres can contribute to reducing the serious financial                                      made the first campaign suc-
      consequences of mistakes.                                                                          cessful: engaging the employ-
                                                                                                         ees and consistent behavioural
      two years ago, nomeco launched its first campaign with                                             changes. the employees know
      the slogan “pas på mig” (take care of me). through the                                             best where and why problems
      involvement of employees and various improvement meas-                                             arise. they are in a good posi-
      ures, this campaign succeeded in cutting losses resulting                                          tion to suggest methods and
      from damaged packaging in half. since then, however, the risk     ideas that lead to lasting improvements. these are often
      of errors has increased once again because the dis­tribution      quite simple, like putting straps around boxes or fitting cur-
                                    centres are busier with more        tains to shelves in order to prevent goods from falling down.
                                    picking lines. consequently,
                                    nomeco launched the new             part of the campaign’s concept is to make potential errors
                                    campaign “fang fejlen tidligt”      clearly identifiable. nomeco is putting the emphasis on
                                    (catch mistakes early) at the       humour rather than finger-wagging, and on appealing to the
                                    start of 2016.                      employees’ emotions. for example, a box of tablets is given a
                                                                        human face, while t-shirts and cartoons point to examples of
                                                                        possible mistakes in an entertaining way. to draw the atten-
                                                                        tion as well as the pride of employees to the achieved
                                                                        improvements, suggestions and ideas are selected as “the
                                                                        good idea of the week” and awarded with a challenge cup.

                                                                                                                            environment        37




continuous improvements in energy efficiency
the phoenix group has further expanded the energy monitoring of its buildings, which also contributes
to meeting stricter statutory requirements. in 2015, the emphasis was on implementing the energy
efficiency directive of the european union. companies were obligated to conduct a standard-compliant                  see glossary, pages 69 and 71.
energy audit or to implement an energy management system according to iso 50001 or the environ-
mental management system of the eu. the subsidiaries of the phoenix group have taken on this
challenge and have completed energy audits (germany, france, the netherlands) or are awaiting the
introduction of a certified energy management system (e.g. croatia).

in germany, a multi-site process was used for the energy audit, due to the size of the company, for which
15 representative sites were selected. the subsidiaries that were audited included phoenix group it
gmbh and transmed transport gmbh. an energy monitoring system was utilised to provide the relevant
data for the audit on the sites’ energy consumption.

in the meantime, our company has invested in its own human resources for energy management. in
2015, one of our employees successfully passed the exam to become a certified energy auditor according
to din en 16247-1.

the phoenix group will continue to identify suitable energy-saving measures in the course of imple-                   g4-en3, g4-en6
menting the energy efficiency directive. possible approaches include reviewing the operating times
of ventilation systems, further modernisation with led technology, and additional improvements to
­consumption transparency through quarterly internal energy audits. in a series published in the german
 employee magazine “wir”, we are also informing our employees about ways to save energy in their
 day-to-day work, such as turning off monitors at the end of the day.


consumption of electricity of the                        consumption of district heating of the
phoenix group                                            phoenix group

in mwh                                                   in mwh
                             136,826                                                          27,782
                                                                         27,572
            134,180




            2014/15          2015/16                                    2014/15              2015/16

                                                         in western european countries, heating gas and electricity
                                                         are predominantly used instead of district heating.


the energy consumption in terms of electricity and district heating has risen slightly, by just under 2 per           see glossary, page 69.
cent compared with the previous year. the expansion of some distribution centres – for example in
poland, the netherlands, hungary, and norway – has had a significant impact. the increase in electricity
consumption could not be balanced out by the introduction of led lighting. the increase of energy
consumption comes as a result of the growth in total operating performance of over 4 per cent.

38     our responsibilities




 renewable energy sources – photovoltaic systems to generate electricity were installed on all six distribution centres in the czech republic.




                                increasing conversion to led technology
      see glossary, page 69.    lighting is one of the key areas in which we are optimising energy efficiency. at phoenix in germany, for
                                example, lighting accounts for 15 to 20 per cent of our total electricity demand. the gradual transition
                                from fluorescent to led lighting is therefore one of our preferred ways of realising energy savings.
                                led lighting not only requires less electricity, offers longer life and higher light output, but is also less
                                harmful to the environment when it comes to disposal.

                                thanks to the complete transition to led technology in the distribution centres in 2015, the phoenix
                                group in germany recorded substantial improvements. the amount of electricity consumed by lighting
                                was reduced by 50 to 60 per cent. our subsidiary in austria had already completed the conversion in
                                2014. in italy, the proportion of led lighting currently amounts to around 70 per cent. the british
                                division of the phoenix group is also getting to work on the led modernisation programme and antici-
                                pates efficiency gains in lighting of between 60 to 80 per cent once it is implemented at the individual
                                distribution centres. at the administrative centre in the netherlands, all of the lights were changed to
                                leds during renovation.

        led lighting not only   moreover, we have also received positive feedback from the workforce regarding working conditions.
       cuts energy consump­     with the slightly different colour of the led light, there are fewer shadows and vision is thus improved
      tion but also optimises   – despite the illuminating power remaining at 450 lux.
     the working conditions
           for the employees.
                                use of renewable energies to protect the climate
                                in the operation of buildings, the phoenix group is tapping into further opportunities to use renewable
                                energy and thereby support climate protection. for example, our subsidiary in the czech republic
                                benefits from photovoltaic systems to generate electricity on the roofs of six distribution centres. in
                                total, the modules cover a surface of 1,130 m2 and have an output of 167 kwp.

                                                                                                                                          environment        39




a pilot project is being planned for the next few years at phoenix in the united kingdom to test photo-
voltaic systems on roofs and determine whether the technology should be rolled out to other warehouses.

our business units in scandinavia switched over to green electricity back in 2010. they source 100 per cent
of their power from renewable sources, and their annual co2 emissions have dropped by 14,000 tonnes
in comparison with fossil fuel sources.

transparent emissions database
the phoenix group keeps a record of the greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions produced by the company,                                     g4-en15, g4-en16,
which rose by 7.81 per cent compared with the previous year. since co2 emissions are driven mainly by                               g4-en17
the transport of pharmaceuticals, this year-on-year increase comes as a result of the growth in total                               see glossary, page 70.

operating performance of over 4 per cent. the rise in scope 1 and 2 derives from the effects of our overall
energy consumption, as previously described. in regional terms, the greatest pollutant emission was
registered in western europe (including germany), followed by eastern europe and northern europe.

total ghg emissions (scope 1 – 3)

co2 in t                                                                          2014/15               2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                                   previous year
                                                                                                                             in %


scope 1 total 1)                                                                      20,501             22,908            11.74
scope 2 total                                                                         50,966             52,860             3.72
scope 3 total 1)                                                                  115,987               126,318             8.91
total ghg emissions of the phoenix group                                          187,454               202,086             7.81
1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

 report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
 there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.



total ghg emissions by region (scope 1 – 3)

co2 in t
                                                        78,578


                     60,050     57,860
                                             54,364

                                                                                42,311
                                                                     38,587
                                                                                               34,453
                                                                                                         23,338
                                                                                                                        2014/15
                                                                                                                        2015/16



                         germany                 western                    eastern               northern
                                                 europe                     europe                 europe

40    our responsibilities




                                environmental impacts lowered by efficient transport logistics
                   g4-en30      at 69 per cent, co2 emissions from transportation make up the greatest proportion of pollutant emis-
                                sions recorded company-wide. the phoenix group therefore considers efficient transport logistics as an
                                effective way to protect the environment. to maximise efficiency potential and achieve a reduction in
      see glossary, page 70.    ghg emissions, the phoenix group is focusing on a combination of different measures: from a fuel-­
                                efficient vehicle fleet to optimised route guidance to training employees in economical driving.


                                comparison of other emissions to transport emissions of the phoenix group




                                                                   31 %
                                                                                     total emissions                               2015/16
                                                                                        other emissions                               31 %
                                                                                        emissions from transport                      69 %
                                        69 %




                                transmed harnesses potential
                                our subsidiary transmed is at the centre of attention, as it occupies a key position in the supply chain
                                between our distribution centres and the pharmacies. each day, transmed makes 6,000 trips with around
                                3,000 vehicles and offers transport vehicles for lease to carriers. thanks to short lease terms of less than
                                30 months on average, transmed has a modern fleet with fuel-efficient vehicles at its disposal.

           improvements in      transmed pays particular attention to transparency when it comes to the features and consumption
     efficiency are easier to   data of the vehicles used. as a result, the annual mileage per branch has been recorded since 2012, as
       identify with special    well as information about the categories and types of vehicle, motorisation, type of fuel used, and co2
             data collection.
                                emissions per kilometre. by carefully collecting this data, transmed also follows the gdp guidelines and
                                has a suitable foundation for further efficiency improvement measures.

                                                                                                             environment   41




efficient transport logistics – the phoenix group is well-prepared with intelligent route planning,
temperature-controlled vehicles, and trained staff.




intelligent route guidance saves resources
transmed and the subsidiaries’ transport divisions constantly review the options available to optimise
route guidance. a three-step model is used for this purpose.




    1­ independent assessment of each individual route according to the customer’s specifications
       in terms of delivery times and sequence.

    2­ review of targets regarding economic efficiency and environmental compatibility with
       suggestions to customers on how to optimise route planning.

    3­ comparison of tours with the aim of combining several trips to reach an optimal solution
       with reduced use of resources.




within the framework of the gdp guidelines, the phoenix group conducts regular training sessions for
its employees in fuel-efficient driving and encourages its logistics partners to offer similar programmes.
in denmark and france, our subsidiaries are additionally using technical modules to test and evaluate
environmentally friendly driving behaviour.

42   our responsibilities




                            employees                                                              03


                            successful and attractive employer

                            // first group-wide employee survey successfully completed
                            // reorganisation of hr management
                            // talent management becomes an important tool
                            // occupational health management aims to reduce illness rate



                            our vision of being the best integrated healthcare provider – wherever we are – can only be achieved
                            with our motivated and loyal employees. they are the cornerstone of our success and our most impor-
                            tant resource.

                            we want our employees to enjoy working here – for us and with us. to learn more about their satisfaction
                            with the workplace and to identify opportunities for further improvement, we conduct structured
                            employee reviews. in 2015, we also carried out the first international employee survey in our company.

                                                                                                                           employees          43




strengthening collaboration – various events such as this one in the czech republic help employees to develop their teamwork skills.




outstanding performance from dedicated employees is a key element of our corporate mission state-
ment. we consider it important to recognise our employees’ potential and to systematically develop
their abilities, which is why we offer targeted and individual opportunities for further training. this
endeavour is based on a newly developed competency model, which matches an employee’s per­
formance profile with corresponding training requirements.

the leadership guidelines of the phoenix group contain a value-oriented and practical framework for
our managers. through talent management and group-wide succession planning, we offer them career
opportunities and training programmes with an international scope. our aim is to fill management
positions primarily from within the ranks of the phoenix group.

to meet the growing requirements, our company’s hr organisation was given a new strategic and organ-
isational direction during the reporting period. this includes the establishment of an occupational
health management system that will make a significant contribution to achieving our goal of reducing
the illness rate in the company.

we have developed the annual hr meeting of the phoenix group with personnel managers from all                    employer branding and
subsidiaries into an efficient platform for international exchange. its functions include greater harmoni-       talent management are
sation of strategic goals, creating an hr network, and determining areas in which overarching, group-            only a few of the group-
                                                                                                                 wide fields of activity in
wide action is required in personnel, such as employer branding, hr performance measurement, and
                                                                                                                 human resources.
talent management.

headcount at a glance
every day, our employees make a significant contribution towards strengthening our leading position              g4-10, g4-la1
as one of the best integrated healthcare providers in europe. at the end of fiscal year 2015/16, there
were 29,745 employees (25,235 full-time equivalents) 1) working for the phoenix group in 26 european
countries. this equates to an increase of around 3 per cent.




1) data compiled on reporting date. average values were used in the annual report 2015/16.

44   our responsibilities




                g4-la12     at more than 6,300, the largest number of employees can be found in the united kingdom, followed by
                            germany (4,398) and norway (2,931). on average, the proportion of female employees is 64.43 per cent.
                            40 per cent of employees work part-time.


                            employees broken down into full-time/part-time as of 31 jan.


                                                                  28,872               29,745


                                                                        40 %                 40 %




                                                                        60 %                 60 %          part-time
                                                                                                           full-time



                                                                  2014/15             2015/16




                            regional distribution of employees within the phoenix group



                                          20 %          15 %

                                                                               total number of employees                   2015/16
                                                                                 germany                                     4,398
                                                                                 western europe                             12,709
                                                                                 eastern europe                              6,598
                                   22 %                                          northern europe                             6,040
                                                                                                                            29,745
                                                          43 %




                            good response to international employee survey
                            it was the objective of the group-wide employee satisfaction survey to identify opportunities for
                            improvement in terms of satisfaction and motivation, and to strengthen the ties between the employees
                            and the company.

                            employees from all business units, countries, and professions had the opportunity to participate, either
                            online or on paper. the entire data was evaluated by an external, independent service provider, guaran-
                            teeing that the statements stayed strictly anonymous. all of our approximately 30,000 employees were
                            posed the same questions in the local language of each country. two key issues were commitment to the
                            company – which not only describes the satisfaction of employees, but also the attitude towards their
                            work – and the leadership performance of managers.

                                                                                                                      employees   45




brief profile of manuela nickel


                                                        manuela nickel
                                                        is the project manager in charge of the international employee
                                                        survey at our company. she guided the project through every
                                                        stage of the process: from conception, cooperation with the
                                                        service provider, through coordinating a standardised survey
                                                        across the whole of europe, to the implementation of the
                                                        survey in germany. she also manages the flow of information
                                                        from managers and employees, supervises the follow-up pro-
                                                        cess in germany, and advises representatives at the subsidiaries
                                                        together with her project team.




the results are very encouraging and show that we are on the right track:

    3 per cent of all employees participated in the employee survey. overall, the survey underlines the
   6
    high level of commitment of our employees throughout europe.
    at a value of 61, the “commitment index” – indicating the level of commitment to and identification
    with the company – is on a par with comparable companies in europe. in our top 5 countries, the
    commitment level reached 68 out of 100 index points.
  with 67 out of 100 index points, the “leadership index” – used to evaluate leadership performance –
    lies well above the average for comparable companies (58 points).
     more than 60 per cent of all employees would reapply to the phoenix group or one of its subsidiaries.
   our new corporate mission statement is being put into practice: evaluating the various statements
    leads us to the conclusion that more than 60 per cent of phoenix employees already understand and
    implement our vision, mission, and strategy.

we communicated the results simultaneously to all employees of the company in an open and consistent
manner. in the follow-up process, we are concentrating on the areas where employees were less satis-
fied, but which have a considerable impact on motivation and commitment. these include aspects of
leadership, communication, change management, the feedback culture, and further training at all levels.

46   our responsibilities




 supporting employees – employees benefit from measures to promote health as well as opportunities for further development.




                            corporate culture shaped by leadership guidelines and annual employee reviews
                  g4-56     at phoenix, leadership guidelines applicable to the entire group are the foundation of personnel man-
                            agement and create a common bond throughout the group. on the basis of six core topics, the leader-
                            ship guidelines lay down principles for the relationship between managers and employees, as well as
                            giving tips and instructions for their incorporation into daily working practice.

                            the guidelines cover the following topics:

                              cooperative partnership
                              motivation and commitment
                              information
                              promotion and development
                              value creation
                              appraisal and feedback

                 g4-la11    the annual employee review is one of the most important tools at phoenix to promote the open dialogue
                            between managers and employees. it is conducted in different ways in the respective subsidiaries. in
                            germany, this tool has been introduced in all distribution centres across the nation.

                            the assessment of performance and behaviour, prepared by the respective manager, is jointly discussed.
                            both sides use this opportunity to agree on new targets in accordance with the competency model and
                            thus determine possibilities for further training and development based on specific training opportunities.
                            managers received targeted training to carry out these tasks.

                                                                                                                        employees      47




new structure and agenda for hr management
like many other companies, the phoenix group is faced with major personnel challenges. these include
providing employees with the best support, the appeal of the employer brand, dealing with demographic
change, changed recruitment markets, and work-life balance.

an efficient hr organisation is essential to giving these issues specific attention. to this end, we made     aligning the hr strategy
some important decisions during the reporting period. as a result, an hr strategy has been developed          to the corporate mission
that is aligned to the corporate mission statement. this strategy includes the efficient realisation of all   statement will harmonise
                                                                                                              tasks across the group.
administrative tasks related to personnel as well as strengthening the role of hr as a business partner in
the company that actively handles and guides strategic issues of future importance. we are aiming to          see glossary, page 70.
implement and promote these topics across the group as well as intensifying, standardising, and
improving the quality of support at german sites and subsidiaries.

as part of the reorganisation of hr, the phoenix group is therefore establishing a model based on
three pillars.




    1­ hr business partner: the future central contact for employees and departments
       concerning all personnel issues

    2­ hr competence centre: bringing together central and group-wide hr topics with the
       support of centrally directed expert teams

    3­ hr systems & shared services: optimising and standardising hr systems and
       hr reporting in conjunction with performance measurement using key figures




focus on competency model and talent management
we have developed an accompanying competency model, based on our corporate mission, that takes
into account not only the point of view of the company and technical aspects but also management- and
customer-specific perspectives. group-wide standardised assessment criteria establish transparency in
terms of the requirements, performance, and potential of our senior management.

we aim to fill our management positions largely, and wherever appropriate, from within the ranks of our
own company. the very high continuity in our management makes up an important component of our
success. we strive for transnational succession planning for top positions, which open up even more
group-wide career opportunities. at the same time, we are reducing the cost of external recruitment and
the risk of losing corporate expertise. we offer our managers interesting career prospects and strengthen
their commitment to our company in doing so.

48     our responsibilities




 comprehensive development programmes – (junior) managers and younger employees with leadership potential can
 improve basic skills in internal further training programmes.




              through talent    one important success factor in this process is our newly launched talent management system. it deter-
               management,      mines the key positions in the company and identifies the top performers and ideal opportunities
           top performers at    for further development. talent management commenced at the beginning of 2016 with subsidiary
     phoenix are identified
                                management and senior management in germany. we plan to roll out the system gradually to add­
            and offered ideal
                                itional management levels and combine it with our own development programme from 2017. in line
            opportunities for
       further development.     with talent management, we already use a multitude of programmes for competence development.

                                programmes to strengthen leadership skills
                                in the past fiscal year, the phoenix group once again offered many comprehensive development
       see glossary, page 71.   programmes for both managers and employees seeking leadership positions. the junior development
                                programme (jdp) represents a first big step on the career ladder for young employees with leadership
                                potential. in this scheme, the participants gain essential basic skills for their professional life in terms of
                                communication, methodological competence, cooperation, and self-management. the fourth round
                                began in 2015.

       see glossary, page 71.   (junior) managers with prior experience participate in the management development programme
                                (mdp), the sixth round of which began in summer 2015. during the programme, the participants
                                develop special skills in personnel management, teamwork, change management, strategic planning,
                                and corporate leadership.

       see glossary, page 70.   hr is organising the european management development programme (emdp) for the third time, as a
                                personnel development measure for the whole group. the programme is run jointly by the mannheim
                                business school in germany and the malik management centre in st gallen, switzerland for junior
                                managers in all countries. the phoenix group is thus growing together on an international level.

                                the emdp runs for a period of 18 months, is very practical, and focuses on the following areas: intercul-
                                tural management, negotiation, management efficiency, strategic management, financial management,
                                and change management. since it was launched, 78 employees have participated in the emdp
                                (31 women, 47 men). the third group is scheduled to complete the programme in 2017. in total,
                                47 employees are taking part in the current rounds of emdp, mdp, and jdp.

                                                                                                                    employees   49



european management development programme




karolina shaw                                                  sofia anza gomez
head of group business development,                            international sales and marketing network manager,
phoenix uk                                                     phoenix group

“all of the emdp modules were very useful for my job           “the training programme is contributing greatly to my
and career at the phoenix group. the training in               personal development. it gives me the opportunity to
efficient management, in particular, prepared me for           expand my theoretical knowledge and presents me with
the task of leading a team.”                                   the right tools to put it into practice.”




dr tobias bucher                                               jeroen de joode
head of general procurement,                                   manager m&a brocacef,
phoenix pharma-einkauf gmbh                                    phoenix netherlands

“i particularly enjoyed the combination of excellently         “learning negotiation techniques has been very helpful
imparting specialist knowledge about leadership and            to me. the experience gained through intercultural training
self-management, on the one hand, and developing an            sessions and from cooperating with participants from
international network to support joint cooperation in          five countries in the project group was most educational.”
the company, on the other hand.”




sights set firmly on a european career
the phoenix group provides its junior managers in all coun-    emphasise teamwork skills, demonstrate problem-solving
tries with structured opportunities for development and        abilities, and bring along intercultural competence. at the
interesting career prospects. the european management          end of the programme, the participants present their strategy
development programme, which has been on offer for a           proposals for chosen projects, each of which is supported by
number of years, is a central component. requirements for      a member of the executive board.
admission to the emdp are particular professional and social
skills, above-average performance at work, an international    today, numerous emdp graduates are advancing the business
orientation, and excellent language skills. in harmony with    of the phoenix group from leading positions. they are
the international focus of the programme, the participants     convinced of the quality of the programme and would not
must solve complex project tasks in multinational teams,       hesitate to recommend it to others.

50     our responsibilities




                                efficient training infrastructure
                                the phoenix group attaches particular importance to attracting young and motivated people to a career
                                with the company. in germany, we offer school and university graduates many career opportunities in a
                                wide variety of apprenticeships and dual study courses. these include business administration appren-
                                ticeships in wholesale and retail, training as warehouse logistics specialists, or bachelor’s degrees in
                                business management or business information systems.

     80 % of our apprentices    in the 2015 training year, the phoenix group employed 132 apprentices and 19 students of dual
           and students are     study courses in germany. at over 80 per cent, the majority of trainees were taken on after completing
       taken on at phoenix      their training.
           after completing
              their training.
                                we encourage group-wide, cross-border communication right from the start of their professional careers
                                with us, for example through stays abroad. such stays are organised as part of company training and
                                dual study courses. in the fiscal year 2015/16, participants were able to gain experience in croatia, italy,
                                hungary, and in the netherlands.

                                further training retains expertise
                                the phoenix group has an efficient system of further training that constantly keeps their employees’
                                expert knowledge up to date and contributes to their personal development. in future, we will be using
                                the newly developed competency model as the basis for this process.

                                all employees regularly participate in wide-ranging induction programmes and training courses, for
                                example as part of gdp training. they are also obliged to receive training on the code of conduct, which
                                applies throughout the company, as well as on the guidelines concerning anti-corruption and competition
                                compliance. overarching topics involving occupational health and safety are also of major importance,
                                as are personnel management, general management skills, data protection, it, and languages.

                                in germany, the phoenix academy offers employees and managers a wide range of seminars and
                                workshops. in 2015, a total of 1,471 employees took part in further training events of the academy. our
      see glossary, page 69.    employees also have the opportunity to make use of an e-learning system that was set up for the whole
                                of germany, in order to study a variety of subjects efficiently and within a short time. furthermore,
                                employees can also attend external training courses, for the most part, that suit the needs of their job.

                     g4-la9     at the start of their employment, new employees take part in induction seminars that are tailored to
                                their individual needs and the respective requirements of the phoenix group countries. in this context,
                                our new employees completed around 9,850 hours of training in the reporting year. as a result of the
       see glossary, page 70.   growing demands on good distribution practices, the emphasis of this training was on handling medi-
                                cines. in the fiscal year 2015/16, further training of 4,736.7 hours was given on this issue.

                                                                                                               employees   51




focus on talent development – the “mijn talent” (my talent) programme in the netherlands gives employees
the chance to acquire special management competencies and leadership skills.




best practices even in further training
our subsidiaries are investing in further training as well. the business unit in denmark, for example, has
its own academy for managers. in the netherlands, talent development is one area of special attention,
for instance through the “mijn talent” (my talent) programme. ambitious and eligible employees have
the chance to acquire special management competencies and leadership skills. in addition, it is possible
to make use of external courses for personal development.

once again, the phoenix international management meeting (pimm) in 2015 was a fitting platform for
a vigorous exchange between the management of the subsidiaries and senior managers with inter­
national responsibility. throughout all business units, the phoenix group continuously implements best
practices across europe. the exchange of knowledge is the basis for special training concepts that can be
applied across borders. our aim is to learn from each other and take advantage of synergies.

responsibility for occupational health and safety
we are creating a work environment that protects the health of our employees and ensures safe oper­
ations. through our quality management system, we have established structures and processes in all
business units to ensure adherence to the laws and regulations in each country as well as in the eu.
employees who are trained to be first-aiders and health and safety officers are on hand at all of our sites.
we conduct a risk assessment for all workplaces and implement appropriate preventative measures.
accidents at work are reported by us to the appropriate local authorities and are documented the same
way as work-related illnesses.

52       our responsibilities




                                   to prevent risks to health, we place particular importance on providing our employees with regular,
                                   documented training on all issues of occupational health and safety, including first aid, fire protection,
                                   workplace ergonomics, healthy screen use, nutritional issues, and methods to deal with work-related
                                   stress. warehouse staff are specially trained in the use of machinery and other technical devices.

                       g4-la6      despite preventative measures, accidents at work cannot always be avoided. within the phoenix group,
                                   358 lost-time injuries were recorded during the reporting period. with a total of around 43.82 million
                                   actual working hours, this equates to a company-wide accident rate of 8.17 accidents per one million
                                   working hours. in absolute terms, this corresponds to an increase of 1.73 per cent. relatively speaking,
                                   however, the accident rate has fallen when put in the context of our total operating performance,
                                   which increased by 4.4 per cent and covers the entire handled volume of own goods and goods on
                                   consignment.

                                   total recordable injury frequency (trif) 1)

                                   per one million working hours                                                     2014/15 2)       2015/16    deviation from
                                                                                                                                                  previous year
                                                                                                                                                            in %


                                   injuries with lost time                                                                    341         358              4.99
                                   actual working hours                                                          42,464,505         43,823,416             3.20
                                   total recordable injury frequency (trif)                                               8.03            8.17             1.73
                                   1) reporting based on local regulations and includes work-related and travel accidents.
                                   2) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

                                    report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
                                    there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.


                                   systematically reducing the illness rate
        by the end of 2018/19,     as part of its materiality analysis, the phoenix group defined the promotion of health and safety as a
           the phoenix group       key area of activity, and consequently made the reduction of the illness rate a strategic objective. by
     plans to lower the illness    2018/19, we strive to cut the illness rate recorded for the whole company from currently 4.47 per cent to
     rate from 4.47 % to 3.47 %.
                                   3.47 per cent. in the reporting year, the illness rate at the phoenix group only dropped very slightly from
                                   4.47 per cent to 4.45 per cent, due to a considerable flu epidemic at the start of the year.

                                   occupational health management started in germany
                                   in germany, a general works agreement on occupational health management was concluded in march
                                   2016 between the phoenix group and the central works council.

                                   the agreement laid down the following objectives:

                                     to promote health and a positive working atmosphere
                                    	
                                     to reduce illness-related downtimes
                                    	
                                     to protect against hazards at the workplace
                                    	
                                     to implement preventative measures
                                    	
                                     to motivate employees to take an active role in issues affecting healthy workplaces
                                    	
                                     to continue to develop our employees’ health literacy
                                    	
                                     to develop or continue to develop a management culture focused on health
                                    	

                                                                                                                        employees      53




key areas of occupational health management (ohm)



                     occupational health committee            central health committee



    occupational safety management                                       personnel management
     first aid organisation                                              leadership seminars
     workplace inspections                                               health-oriented

                                                 ohm
     sequence diagrams                                                     management culture
     work ergonomics                                                     personnel development
     risk analyses addiction                                             integration of disabled people
      and drugs                                                           flexible personnel management



    promoting health
     vaccination programmes                                              absence management
     health days                         employee participation          conversations about returning to
     promoting employees’                 management feedback             or absence from work
      health literacy                      employee surveys              integration management




a central health committee is playing a leading role in this process. it advises the organisational units,
coordinates projects with internal and external partners, monitors the achievement of objectives, and
plans service offerings and training measures to promote health. the panel is made up of leading com-
pany representatives and delegates from the central works council as well as representatives of
the severely disabled.

open cooperation with employee representatives
the phoenix group is committed to its operational partnership with employee representatives and                g4-11
engages in constructive collaboration. this cooperation focuses on internationally recognised standards
and takes the laws and circumstances of the different countries into consideration. the european works         in 2015/16, around 32 %
council (ewc) plays an important coordinating role in this regard and has made a significant contrib­          of employees in europe
ution that has helped the phoenix group to grow closer together as a european company. the ewc is              and 94 % of employees
                                                                                                               in germany were covered
closely involved in significant measures that affect two or more countries, for example the employee
                                                                                                               by collective agreements.
survey, compliance, or the corporate mission statement. moreover, it is active in future projects such as
health management, work-life balance, and further training.

54   our responsibilities




                            society                                                             04


                            the phoenix group assumes social responsibility

                            // focus on long-term commitment to selected projects
                            // priority given to health-related issues
                            // donations in the fiscal year 2015/16 total eur 1.8 million
                            // looking ahead: allocation of donations and sponsorship
                                activities in germany to be reviewed



                            the phoenix group plays an active role in society. for us, responsibility means using our skills and
                            resources to make a positive contribution to the common good, beyond the scope of our core business.
                            in doing so, we are particularly concerned with making a long-term impact. in addition to our invest-
                            ments for the common good, we fund projects in the local areas and regions of our locations. phoenix
                            anti-corruption guidelines are strictly observed when organising these fundraising and sponsorship
                            activities.

                                                                                                                            society    55




focus on health and pharmaceutical research – for the 19th time the          expert panel of germany – for each questionnaire
phoenix pharmaceutics science award has been presented.                      completed, eur 2.50 are donated to a regional charity.




in accordance with our mission statement “we deliver health across europe”, we predominantly support
facilities helping sick and disabled children. additionally, we provide funding for cultural and research-
related institutions. we also live up to our obligations in emergency situations. for example, during the
refugee crisis in europe, our subsidiaries in denmark and norway in particular supported local welfare
organisations.

germany: a glance at three major projects
with its science award, the phoenix group draws the attention of the professional community to                 phoenix in germany
the potential for pharmaceutical innovation in germany, austria, and switzerland. for the 19th time,           awarded more than
phoenix awarded four research projects in the categories pharmacology and clinical pharmacology,               eur 50,000 to support
                                                                                                               regional and interna­
pharmaceutical biology, pharmaceutical chemistry, and pharmaceutical technology. phoenix presented
                                                                                                               tional projects.
the prize and, for the first time, celebrated the winners in switzerland. the award with a total value of
eur 40,000 is one of the most prestigious science prizes in german-speaking countries.

our activities are additionally focused on supporting the charitable organisation kulturbras e.v., which
assists disadvantaged children in fortaleza, brazil, and provides them with regular meals. this project
has been a priority for the phoenix group for 24 years already, because a long-serving employee of the
phoenix group has been on the organisation’s board ever since. with the purchase of any own-brand
product from phoenix’s personal range, the german subsidiary phoenix pharma-einkauf gmbh donates
5 euro cents directly to kulturbras e.v. in the fiscal year 2015/16, the company donated eur 5,000.

furthermore, as part of our commitment to society, the “offizin im blick” (focus on the dispensing
pharmacy) survey provides a panel of experts to support phoenix customers in germany. it allows
pharmacists to take part in surveys on a variety of future issues relevant to the pharmacy market,
without being complicated or time-consuming. the participation comes with an incentive: for each
questionnaire completed by the experts, phoenix germany is donating eur 2.50 to a fund that is allo-
cated to regional children’s charities once it reaches at least eur 1,000. in the reporting year, a total
amount of eur 6,000 came together.

56   our responsibilities




 supporting children’s hospitals – nicely decorated rooms and personal assistance make hospital stays more pleasant for children.




                             france: special welcome for children in hospital
                             since last year, children between the ages of two and eleven who have to undergo surgery in the cannes
                             hospital have been welcomed in a room specifically arranged for them in the hospital. the room is
                             designed as a teddy bear hospital so that the children can be familiarised with their own medical treat-
                             ment through play. the children are also given their own teddy bear to keep them company throughout
                             their entire stay in the hospital. this pilot project led by the french pharmacy association pharmavie has
                             a budget of eur 50,000. phoenix france contributed more than eur 9,000 to this project. in the future,
                             a further six hospitals per year will be equipped accordingly in france.

                             sweden: supporting the queen silvia children’s hospital
                             tamro, our subsidiary in sweden, has been supporting the queen silvia children’s hospital in gothen-
                             burg – one of the largest of its kind in europe – for several years. each year, around 13,000 children
                             from all over sweden, some of whom are seriously ill, are cared for in the hospital and a further
                             130,000 children are treated as outpatients. since a large amount of time in hospital is spent waiting,
                             the foundation has set itself the task of making that time as pleasant and enjoyable as possible for the
                             children. tamro donated around eur 22,000 to this cause last year, of which eur 10,000 was contributed
                             by the employees in lieu of a christmas gift.

                             united kingdom: supporting the fight against child abuse
                             rowlands pharmacy is an official patron of the national society for the prevention of cruelty to children
                             (nspcc), which works to support children that suffer or have suffered domestic violence and abuse.
                             in 2006, managing director kenny black entered the 26.2 mile london marathon to raise money for the
                             nspcc. as a result, ‘rowlands runners’ were formed and have participated in the marathon each year.
                             during the last fiscal year, 16 employees ran on behalf of the nspcc’s phone service childline raising
                             around eur 48,000. since 2006, rowlands pharmacies, together with phoenix head office staff, have
                             held various fundraising activities, raising in total so far around eur 550,000 whilst helping to increase
                             the nspcc’s reach and encourage public awareness.

                                                                                                                            society        57




finland – the hospital will be fitted with furniture               charity race in hungary – employees raised almost
by the end of 2017.                                                eur 1,000 to treat ill children.




finland: construction of the new children’s hospital is making progress
our finnish company tamro has been making a significant contribution to the construction of a new
children’s hospital in helsinki since 2013. the existing children’s hospital, built in 1946, no longer meets
modern standards – even though it is the only facility in the whole of finland to offer a full range of
medical services. hence, a foundation was set up in 2012 to pave the way for the building of a new
children’s hospital. by the end of 2015, tamro had provided eur 100,000 in funding to this project. on
the one hand, the company made direct donations to the foundation and, on the other hand, it appealed
to all of its employees and business partners to participate. the hospital will be fitted with furniture
by the end of 2017.

hungary: comprehensive donation and sponsoring activities
in hungary, the phoenix group’s social commitment covers a wide spectrum. in the reporting year,               furthermore, phoenix
the donations amounted to around eur 29,000. phoenix in hungary supported numerous foundations.                in hungary contributed
the organisation “one drop attention” received a donation of eur 3,000 for the treatment of diabetic           around eur 29,000 to
                                                                                                               cultural institutions and
patients.
                                                                                                               sports clubs.

pharmaceutical universities and institutions also received funding, as did the order of malta relief
(approx. eur 6,500). furthermore, pharmacies are no longer required to bear the cost of pharmaceutical
waste collection, and the foundation of pharmacists for the earth is helped through the collection of
paper and cardboard (eur 1,600). in 2015, a considerable number of managers and employees of our
hungarian company also took part in a charity race in support of the treatment of ill children. the
employees raised donations amounting to almost eur 1,000 for this cause.

we want to continue with our activities to benefit society. in doing so, we will keep our long-term focus
on selected projects and work on expanding the exchange of best practices to this area as well. we are
currently analysing the need for a policy on donations and sponsorship activities for germany, with the
idea of strategically implementing them within the company.

58   facts and figures




     facts and figures



                         key figures of the phoenix group

                         for the first time, the corporate sustainability report 2015/16 presents all performance indicators in
                         comparison with the previous year. to allow for a better overview, a column has been added showing
                         the rate of change. all data relating to economy and environment, as well as lost-time injuries, were
                         recorded by the subsidiaries in a centralised csr management software. the other employee indicators
                         not mentioned are excluded. this information was provided via the phoenix group’s central hr system.



                         added value



                         economic value retained of the phoenix group                  2014/15        2015/16    deviation from
                         in eur k                                                                                 previous year
                                                                                                                            in %


                         net turnover                                               22,567,998     23,247,428              3.01
                         community investments                                           2,031           1,759          – 13.39
                         personnel expenses                                          1,034,353      1,158,714             12.02
                         operating costs                                            21,119,765     21,725,836              2.87
                         payments to government                                         73,364         95,031             29.53
                         payments to providers of capital                               99,225         78,025           – 21.37
                         economic value retained                                       239,260        188,063           – 21.40

                                                                                                                   facts and figures       59




environment


total ghg emissions (scope 1–3)                                                                                   see glossary, page 70.

co2 in t                                                                    2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                 previous year
                                                                                                           in %


scope 1 total 1)                                                             20,501    22,908            11.74
scope 2 total                                                                50,966    52,860             3.72
scope 3 total 1)                                                            115,987   126,318             8.91
total ghg emissions of the phoenix group                                    187,454   202,086             7.81
1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

 report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
 there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.




total ghg emissions by region (scope 1–3)

co2 in t                                                                    2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                 previous year
                                                                                                           in %


phoenix group                                                               187,454   202,086             7.81
germany                                                                      60,050    57,860           – 3.65
western europe 1)                                                            54,364    78,578            44.54
eastern europe 1)                                                            38,587    42,311             9.65
northern europe                                                              34,453    23,338          – 32.26
1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

 report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
 there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.




emissions from direct energy consumption including
own transport by region (scope 1) 1)

co2 in t                                                                    2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                 previous year
                                                                                                           in %


phoenix group                                                                20,501    22,908           11.74
germany                                                                       2,727     2,765             1.41
western europe                                                               10,182    11,990            17.76
eastern europe                                                                5,718     6,321            10.55
northern europe                                                               1,874     1,831           – 2.31
1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

 report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
 there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.

60   facts and figures




                         emissions from indirect energy consumption by region (scope 2)

                         co2 in t                                                                    2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                                          previous year
                                                                                                                                    in %


                         phoenix group                                                                50,966    52,860             3.72
                         germany                                                                      18,173    17,677           – 2.73
                         western europe                                                               11,477    12,762            11.20
                         eastern europe                                                               13,934    15,466            10.99
                         northern europe                                                               7,382     6,955           – 5.78




                         emissions from subcontracted transport by region (scope 3)

                         co2 in t                                                                    2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                                          previous year
                                                                                                                                    in %


                         phoenix group                                                               115,987   126,318             8.91
                         germany                                                                      39,150    37,417           – 4.43
                         western europe                                                               32,705    53,825            64.58
                         eastern europe 1)                                                            18,935    20,524             8.39
                         northern europe 1)                                                           25,197    14,552          – 42.25
                         1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

                          report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
                          there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.




                         consumption of district heating by region 1)

                         in mwh                                                                      2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                                          previous year
                                                                                                                                    in %


                         phoenix group                                                                27,572    27,782             0.76
                         germany                                                                       4,113     4,174             1.47
                         western europe                                                                   0         0                 0
                         eastern europe                                                                9,679    10,548             8.98
                         northern europe                                                              13,780    13,060           – 5.22
                         1) figures also include goods that were disposed of through wholesale

                          as a service to pharmacists in the countries.

                                                                                                                  facts and figures   61




consumption of electricity by region

in mwh                                                                      2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                 previous year
                                                                                                           in %


phoenix group                                                               134,180   136,826             1.97
germany                                                                      34,147    33,042           – 3.24
western europe                                                               35,545    38,461             8.21
eastern europe                                                               18,320    20,438            11.56
northern europe                                                              46,168    44,884           – 2.78




non-hazardous waste by region

in tonnes                                                                   2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                 previous year
                                                                                                           in %


phoenix group                                                                20,007    20,031             0.11
germany                                                                       8,380     8,405             0.30
western europe 1)                                                             5,663     5,457           – 3.66
eastern europe 1)                                                             2,462     2,317           – 5.89
northern europe                                                               3,502     3,852             9.99
1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

 report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
 there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.




pharmaceutical waste by region 1)

in tonnes                                                                   2014/15   2015/16   deviation from
                                                                                                 previous year
                                                                                                           in %


phoenix group                                                                 1,107     1,204             8.76
germany                                                                        185       111           – 40.00
western europe                                                                 106       151             42.45
eastern europe                                                                 198       177           – 10.61
northern europe                                                                618       765             23.79
1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

 report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
 there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.

62   facts and figures




                         employees


                         total employees and full-time equivalents (ftes) by region 1)


                                                       2014/15         2015/16        deviation              2014/15          2015/16             deviation
                                                           fte             fte    from previous             employees        employees        from previous
                                                                                      year in %                                                   year in %


                         phoenix group                 24,461           25,235                3.16             28,872           29,745                 3.02
                         germany                         3,577           3,506               – 1.96              4,489               4,398           – 2.03
                         western europe                  9,887           9,938                0.52             12,690           12,709                 0.15
                         eastern europe                  5,659           6,194                9.46               6,025               6,598             9.51
                         northern europe                 5,338           5,596                4.83               5,668               6,040             6.56
                         1) per due date 31 january.




                         employees by gender, type of employment, and region


                                                                           2014/15                                              2015/16

                                                         full-time   part-time   full-time    part-time     full-time    part-time     full-time   part-time
                         in figures                           male        male     female       female           male         male       female      female


                         phoenix group                     7,250       1,893     10,041          9,688        7,377        1,944       10,593        9,831
                         germany                           1,458         339         946         1,746        1,440          339             931     1,688
                         western europe                    2,954       1,254       2,559         5,923        2,939        1,243         2,522       6,005
                         eastern europe                    1,639           73      3,672              641     1,737            83        4,115         663
                         northern europe                   1,199         227       2,864         1,378        1,261          279         3,025       1,475

                                                                                                                                facts and figures   63




sickness-related absenteeism 1)

in hours                                                                          2014/15          2015/16    deviation from
                                                                                                               previous year
                                                                                                                         in %


phoenix group                                                                   2,258,931        2,326,845              3.01
germany                                                                           464,421          541,205             16.53
western europe                                                                    868,108          838,678            – 3.39
eastern europe                                                                    367,549          358,564            – 2.44
northern europe                                                                   558,853          588,398              5.29
1) figures shown are the total of paid and unpaid sick hours.




total recordable injury frequency (trif) 1)

per one million working hours                                                     2014/15 2)       2015/16    deviation from
                                                                                                               previous year
                                                                                                                         in %


injuries with lost time                                                                    341         358              4.99
actual working hours                                                          42,464,505         43,823,416             3.20
total recordable injury frequency (trif)                                               8.03            8.17             1.73
1) reporting based on local regulations and includes work-related and travel accidents.
2) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability

 report 2014/15 due to changes in data collection and data definitions.
 there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.

64   gri g4 content index




     gri g4 content index



     a gri materiality disclosures service was performed by the global reporting initiative for this report.
     this audit confirms that the standard disclosures g4-17 to g4-27 are correctly set out in the table of
     contents (gri g4 content index) and in the text of this phoenix group corporate social responsibility
     report 2015/16.

     the following gri index includes standard disclosures from the gri g4 guidelines – core. it indicates
     the degree to which we are addressing the principal aspects and indicators and where they can be
     found in this report. a third-party audit was not carried out in 2015/16. to simplify the presentation, a
     column for third-party audits was therefore not included.




     general standard disclosures                                                                  page



     strategy and analysis

     g4 -1       ceo’s statement                                                                   p. 2, p. 18 ff.


     organisational profile

     g4 -3       name of the organisation                                                          flap, p. 6

     g4 -4       primary brands, products, and services                                            flap, p. 7

     g4 -5       location of organisation’s headquarters                                           imprint

     g4 -6       number of countries in which operations are located                               p. 6, p. 10

     g4 -7       nature of ownership and legal form                                                imprint, annual report 2015/16:
                                                                                                   www.phoenixgroup.eu/de/service/
                                                                                                   investor-relations/documents/
                                                                                                   phoenix%20group_annual%20
                                                                                                   report%202015-16_web.pdf

     g4 -8       markets served                                                                    p. 6, p. 10

     g4 -9       scale of the organisation                                                         flap, p. 6

     g4 -10      size and breakdown of workforce                                                   flap, p. 6, p. 43 f., p. 62

     g4  -11     employees covered by collective bargaining agreements                             p. 53

     g4 -12      description of supply chain                                                       p. 9, p. 25

     g4 -13      significant changes during the reporting period in terms of size,                 p. 6, p. 25
                 structure, and ownership

     g4 -14      precautionary approach or principle                                               p. 9, p. 25

     g4 -15      external charters, principles, and initiatives                                    p. 26 f.

     g4 -16      memberships in associations                                                       p. 9

                                                                                                  gri g4 content index   65




general standard disclosures                                                     page



identified material aspects and boundaries

g4 -17       organisational structure                                            p. 4, p. 6, annual report 2015/16
                                                                                 p. 57: www.phoenixgroup.eu/de/
                                                                                 service/investor-relations/documents/
                                                                                 phoenix%20group_annual%20
                                                                                 report%202015-16_web.pdf

g4 -18       definition of report content                                        p. 12 ff.

g4 -19       material aspects                                                    p. 12 ff.

g4 -20       material aspects within the organisation                            p. 4

g4 -21       material aspects outside the organisation                           p. 4

g4 -22       report restatements of information                                  p. 5

g4 -23       changes in report parameters                                        p. 5


stakeholder engagement

g4 -24       stakeholder groups involved                                         p. 13 f.

g4 -25       identification and selection of stakeholders                        p. 13 f.

g4 -26       approaches to stakeholder engagement                                p. 13 f.

g4 -27       key topics and issues of stakeholders                               p. 14


report profile

g4 -28       reporting period                                                    p. 4

g4 -29       date of most recent previous report                                 last report was published
                                                                                 on 2015/09/28

g4 -30       reporting cycle                                                     p. 4

g4 -31       contact person for questions regarding the report or its contents   p. 15, imprint

g4 -32       “in accordance” option in the gri index                             p. 4

g4 -33       third-party audit of the report                                     a third-party audit was not
                                                                                 performed in 2015/16.


governance

g4 -34       governance structure                                                imprint, annual report 2015/16:
                                                                                 www.phoenixgroup.eu/de/service/
                                                                                 investor-relations/documents/
                                                                                 phoenix%20group_annual%20
                                                                                 report%202015-16_web.pdf

66   gri g4 content index




     general standard disclosures                                                  page



     ethics and integrity

     g4 -56       values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour            p. 8, p. 15 f.
                  such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics

     g4 -57       mechanisms for finding advice on ethical and lawful behaviour,   p. 15 f.
                  and matters related to organisational integrity

     g4 -58       mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful    p. 16
                  behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity




     specific standard disclosures                               omissions         page



     economic

     aspect: economic performance

     g4 -ec1      direct economic value generated                                  flap, p. 58
                  and distributed


     environmental

     aspect: energy

     g4 -en3      energy consumption within the organisation                       p. 37 f., 60 f.

     g4 -en6      reduction of energy consumption                                  p. 37 ff.

     aspect: emissions

     g4 -en15     direct greenhouse gas (ghg)                                      p. 39, p. 59 f.
                  emissions (scope 1)

     g4 -en16     energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg)                             p. 39, p. 59 f.
                  emissions (scope 2)

     g4 -en17     other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg)                              p. 39, p. 59 f.
                  emissions (scope 3)

     aspect: effluents and waste

     g4 -en23     total weight of waste by type and                                p. 33 ff., p. 61
                  disposal method

     aspect: products and services

     g4 -en27     extent of impact mitigation of environmental                     p. 33 ff.
                  impacts of products and services

                                                                                                                              gri g4 content index   67




specific standard disclosures                                omissions                                       page

aspect: compliance

g4 -en29     monetary value of significant fines and total                                                   p. 16
             number of non-monetary sanctions for
             non-compliance with environmental laws
             and regulations

aspect: transport

g4 -en30     significant environmental impacts                                                               p. 40 f
             of transportation


social


labour practices and decent work

aspect: employment

g4 -la1      total number and rates of new                   the rates of new employee hires and             flap, p. 43, p. 62
             employee hires and employee turnover            employee turnover are not currently
                                                             available. standardised reporting of this
                                                             key figure will be approved.

aspect: occupational health and safety

g4 -la6      type of injury and rates of injury,                                                             p. 52, p. 63
             lost days, and absenteeism

aspect: training and education

g4 -la9      average hours of training                       the average hours of training per year          p. 50
             per year per employee by gender                 per employee is currently not available.
             and employee category                           available training hours will be
                                                             explained in the respective chapter.

g4 -la11     percentage of employees receiving               personnel development appraisal meetings        p. 46
             regular performance and career                  were held in almost all phoenix group
             development reviews, by gender                  companies. an up-to-date percentage is
             and employee category                           currently not available. due to differences
                                                             in local data protection rules no information
                                                             on gender or employee categories can
                                                             be disclosed.

aspect: diversity and equal opportunity

g4 -la12     composition of governance bodies                a breakdown of employees according              p. 44, p. 62, annual report 2015/16:
             and breakdown of employees per                  to age is currently not available.              www.phoenixgroup.eu/de/service/
             employee category according to gender,          standardised reporting of this key figure       investor-relations/documents/
             age group, minority group membership,           will be approved. no minorities are             phoenix%20group_annual%20
             and other indicators of diversity               known to the phoenix group.                     report%202015-16_web.pdf

68   gri g4 content index




     specific standard disclosures                                omissions                             page


     human rights

     aspect: human rights grievance mechanisms

     g4-hr12      number of grievances about human rights                                               p. 16
                  impacts filed, addressed, and resolved
                  through formal grievance mechanisms


     society

     aspect: anti-corruption

     g4-so4       communication and training on                                                         p. 16
                  anti-corruption policies and procedures

     aspect: anti-competitive behaviour

     g4 -so7      total number of legal actions for                                                     no cases reported within
                  anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and                                           the reported year.
                  monopoly practices and their outcomes

     aspect: compliance

     g4 -so8      monetary value of significant fines and total                                         p. 16
                  number of non-monetary sanctions for
                  non-compliance with laws and regulations


     product responsibility

     aspect: customer health and safety

     g4 -pr1      percentage of significant product               a percentage of this aspect is        p. 26 ff.
                  and service categories for which health         currently unavailable. the existing
                  and safety impacts are assessed for             processes, however, are explained
                  improvement                                     in the respective chapter.

     aspect: customer privacy

     g4 -pr8      total number of substantiated complaints                                              p. 30 f.
                  regarding breaches of customer privacy and
                  losses of customer data

                                                                                                         glossary   69




glossary



abbreviations                                    district heating
co2 = carbon dioxide                             system for distributing heat. district heating is
emvo = european medicines verification           a system of pure, hot water that is led from
organisation                                     electricity- and heat-producing power plants and
esm = european stakeholder model                 heating plants in a closed district heating network
ewc = european works council                     to the customer’s heat exchangers and back.
fcpa = foreign corrupt practices act             after the building’s heating system and hot water
fmd = falsified medicines directive 2011/62/eu   tanks have been heated, the cooled-off district
fmea = failure modes and effects analysis        heating water returns to the starting point.
fte = full-time equivalent
gdd = german association for data protection     e-learning
and data security                                e-learning stands for digital learning, facilitated
gdp = good distribution practice                 by the internet, for example.
gri = global reporting initiative
(organisation for sustainability reporting)      energy audit
hc = headcount                                   this investigation procedure is a systematic
hr = human resources                             inspection and analysis of an organisation’s
ifrs = international financial                   energy use and energy consumption with the
reporting standards                              aim of identifying opportunities to improve
iso = international organisation                 energy efficiency.
for standardisation
kwp = kilo-watt peak                             energy efficiency
(nominal power, 1,000 watt-peak)                 energy efficiency means that products are
m&a = mergers and acquisitions                   manufactured with the least possible energy
ohm = occupational health management             consumption. the term energy efficiency is
qm = quality management                          also used in connection with machines and
trif = total recordable injury frequency         equipment with low power consumption.

                                                 eu anti-trust law
                                                 european union regulations relating to economic
                                                 cartels between companies and other players
                                                 in the market. anti-trust law also includes all rules
                                                 of law aimed at safeguarding a free competitive
                                                 market that is as diverse as possible.

70   glossary




                european management development                     falsified medicines directive (fmd) 2011/62/eu
                programme (emdp)                                    this directive from the european parliament and
                the european management development pro-            european council comprises, among other things,
                gramme is a european training and development       the regulations for manufacturing and importing
                programme for (junior) managers in all countries    pharmaceuticals, placing them on the market,
                of the phoenix group.                               and their wholesale distribution in the european
                                                                    union. it also lays down provisions concerning
                european medicines verification organisation        active substances.
                (emvo)
                the emvo is a non-profit organisation head­         good distribution practice (gdp)
                quartered in luxembourg. its primary goals are      standard for the proper distribution and handling
                to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from         of pharmaceuticals.
                entering the eu supply chain and to improve
                patient safety.                                     greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
                                                                    the main natural greenhouse gases are water
                european stakeholder model (esm)                    vapour (h2o), carbon dioxide (co2), methane (ch4),
                the european stakeholder model is a partner-        ozone (o3), and nitrous oxide (n2o). in addition,
                ship of key stakeholders in the supply chain,       human activities have released other substances
                including the pharmaceutical industry, parallel     classed as greenhouse gases, such as halocarbons
                traders, wholesalers, and pharmacists. it           (cfc, hcfc, hfc, and pcf) and sulphur hexafluor­
                demonstrates how efficient and cost-neutral         ide. the use of the above-mentioned substances
                medical testing systems can be designed,            is either partly or wholly prohibited or restricted.
                developed, used, and regulated.                     they are classified as ghg emissions. emissions
                                                                    are categorised as scope 1, scope 2, or scope 3,
                foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa)                depending on their impact. scope 1 includes all
                us federal legislation enforced since 1977 that     direct emissions. indirect emissions from the con-
                prohibits giving payments and valuable gifts        sumption of electricity or district heat are covered
                to foreign government officials for the purpose     by scope 2. scope 3 relates to all other indirect
                of securing business contracts or maintaining       emissions, such as the transport of a company’s
                business relationships.                             goods by subcontractors.

                failure modes and effects analysis (fmea)           hr business partner
                failure modes and effects analysis identifies       central contact for employees and departments
                possible errors at an early stage, evaluates the    concerning all personnel issues.
                associated risks, and develops counteractive
                avoidance measures – resulting in further quality
                improvements.

                                                                                                           glossary   71




iso                                                    pharmaceutical waste
international organisation for standardisation.        pharmaceutical products that expired or were
iso standards include iso 9000 for quality             damaged during packing or distribution.
management systems and iso 14001 for environ-          pharmaceutical waste must be handled with
mental management systems.                             care and disposed of at hazardous waste
                                                       treatment facilities.
junior development programme (jdp)
the junior development programme is aimed at           pre-wholesale
employees with noticeable development potential        pre-wholesale activities relate to logistics
who are just starting their professional careers.      services for pharmaceutical manufacturers.

management development programme (mdp)                 securpharm initiative
the management development programme is a              securpharm is an initiative of different stake-
training and development programme for (junior)        holders in the pharmaceutical industry that aims
managers of all divisions at phoenix in germany.       to protect against counterfeit drugs entering the
                                                       german pharmaceutical distribution network.
materiality matrix
the materiality matrix enables a company to            uk bribery act
decide which csr activities to invest in. the ma-      one of the most aggressive anti-corruption laws
teriality matrix is a two-dimensional representation   in the world. entered into force in the united
of csr issues: the importance or attractiveness        kingdom on 1 july 2011.
of the topic to stakeholders, and the importance
of the issue to the company in terms of the likely
impact of the initiatives on business success.

72




     imprint



     publisher                           concept, design, and realisation
     ingo schnaitmann                    group communications phoenix group
     head of group communications        hgb hamburger geschäftsberichte gmbh & co. kg,
     jennifer opitz                      hamburg, germany
     csr and communications manager
     phoenix group                       photographs
                                         jiří beran, triton (p. 43)
     phoenix pharmahandel gmbh & co kg   nicole blomann, die satzfee (p. 31)
     group communications                drottning silvia children’s hospital (p. 56)
     pfingstweidstrasse 10 –12           martin flaux (p. 56)
     68199 mannheim                      hahlbrock (p.34, 41)
     germany                             r. hömke/securpharm (p. 27)
     phone +49 (0)621 8505 8503          impact communications (p. 41)
     fax    +49 (0)621 8505 8501         péter lugosi (p. 57)
     media@phoenixgroup.eu               hans-georg merkel (u1, p. 2, 3, 18, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 32,
     www.phoenixgroup.eu                 34, 42, 45, 46, 49, 51, 55)
                                         kalle nurmi, srv rakennus oy (p. 57)
                                         niels villum petersen (p. 36)
                                         phoenix group (p. 8, 38, 48, 49, 54, 55)
                                         aki rask, akifoto ltd. (p. 51)
                                         bas rozenbeek (p. 51)
                                         daniel stiller, bildbyrån (p. 34)

                                         printing
                                         charterhouse print management ltd.,
                                         cologne, germany

                                         © phoenix pharmahandel gmbh & co kg,
                                         mannheim, germany
                                         printed in germany. all rights reserved.

                                         translation of the german version.
                                         the german version is binding.
                                         translation: target languages gmbh,
                                         dossenheim, germany

                                         data for this report have been gathered
                                         europe-wide, consolidated, and prepared by
                                         means of csr management software by


phoenix pharmahandel gmbh & co kg
pfingstweidstrasse 10 –12
68199 mannheim
germany
www.phoenixgroup.eu
