1

table of contents

1. the orlen group and its environment
   1.1. letter from the president of the management board       4
   1.2. orlen group 2016
      1.2.1 orlen group 2016                                    8
      1.2.2. shares and shareholding structure                 20
      1.2.3. business model                                    25
      1.2.4. orlen group’s structure                           27
      1.2.5. value creation                                    30
      1.2.6. our products, services and brands                 31
      1.2.7. our markets                                       34
      1.2.8. integrated management system                      35
      1.2.9. core values and standards of conduct              38
   1.3. our environment
      1.1.3.1. our stakeholders                                42
      1.1.3.2. macroeconomic factors                           44
      1.1.3.3. market environment                              46
      1.1.3.4. regulatory environment                          59
      1.1.3.5. suppliers and customers                         68
      1.1.3.6. social environment                              72
   1.4. our report                                             77

2. corporate governance
   2.1. letter from the chairwoman of the supervisory board    91
   2.2. corporate governance at pkn orlen                      93
   2.3. communication with the capital market                  95
   2.4. major holdings of shares                               98
   2.5. special shareholder rights                            100
   2.6. general meetings in 2016                              101
   2.7. management and supervisory bodies                     103
   2.8. remuneration policy                                   116

3. risks and opportunities
   3.1. risk management                                       119
   3.2. opportunities                                         124

4. our strategy
   4.1. strategy implementation in 2014-2016                  127
   4.2. 2017−2021 strategy                                    132
   4.3. implementation of investment projects                 136
   4.4. monitoring of the strategy implementation             137



                                        2

  4.5. market outlook in 2017                                    138

5. financial results
   5.1. management's discussion and analysis of 2016 financial   140
   results
   5.2. consolidated financial statements
      5.2.1. consolidated financial statements                   144
      5.2.2. basic information                                   154
      5.2.3. segments’ data                                      160
      5.2.4. notes and other information                         163
   5.3. orlen in figures                                         252

6. our operations
   6.1. research and development                                 267
   6.2. downstream                                               271
   6.3. retail                                                   299
   6.4. upstream                                                 314
   6.5. corporate functions                                      320

7. sustainable development
   7.1. outlook csr 2017+                                        321
   7.2. csr strategy implementation                              326
   7.3. indirect economic impacts                                334
   7.4. diversity and equal opportunities                        341
   7.5. responsible employer                                     344
   7.6. safety of employees and contractors                      361
   7.7. environmental responsibility                             381
   7.8. responsibility towards customers                         427
   7.9. responsibility towards suppliers                         436
   7.10. product responsibility                                  440
   7.11. society                                                 453
   7.12. awards and distinctions                                 462

8. outlook 2017+                                                 466

9. contact                                                       474

10. glossary                                                     477




                                        3

the orlen group and its
environment
letter from the president of the management
board
ladies and gentlemen, dear shareholders,




for the orlen group and other companies in the
petrochemical and refining industry, a key success factor
is the ability to seize the opportunities arising from shifts
in the economic and market landscape to maximise profit
and further strengthen the company’s financial and
competitive position. looking back at this past year,
we can safely say that we successfully delivered on all
these objectives. our robust financial performance was
also appreciated by the market – on november 21st
2016 pkn orlen for the first time topped the list of the
most valuable companies on the warsaw stock exchange.
in the years ahead we aim to further grow our business in
line with the ambitious goals we set ourselves in the
orlen group 2017−2021 strategy that was unveiled in
december last year.

                                           wojciech jasiński
             ceo and president of the management board.




the global macroeconomic and market developments had a major influence on our operations
and financial performance in 2016. the price of brent crude averaged just under usd 44 per
barrel in 2016, representing a 17% drop on 2015 and a 12-year low. the overall downstream


                                                  4

margin also retreated on tighter gasoline and petrochemical margins. continued low oil prices
supported our financial results and created attractive upside opportunities for pkn orlen and
other oil companies that had managed to diversify their revenue sources sufficiently in advance
and could fully exploit the market conditions. the last quarter of 2016 marked a watershed on
the domestic fuel market as new legislation helped to significantly curtail grey market in fuels,
driving up consumption of diesel oil and enabling businesses engaged in the official trade in fuels
to fully leverage their competitive advantage.

2016 lifo-based ebitda adjusted for the effect of impairment losses on non-current assets
reached a record level of pln 9.4bn.total sales volumes grew 2%, with a record 10 billion litres of
fuels sold last year. the full-year results were adversely impacted by maintenance shutdowns,
including the downtime of the steam cracker in litvínov, the czech republic.

in downstream, we moved forward on the major expansion projects aimed at improving efficiency
of the group’s production assets. in the czech republic, a project to build the new pe3
polyethylene unit was launched in 2016 as one of the orlen group’s most-awaited investments,
which will help to solidify pkn orlen’s position on central europe’s chemical and petrochemical
markets. another of our key petrochemical projects, to build a metathesis unit in płock, entered
the construction phase. launched in early 2017, the visbreaker project is another major
downstream efficiency improvement initiative, expected to increase crude distillate yields and
operational availability of the refinery. last year, progress was made on the construction of
poland’s largest ccgt plants: in włocławek (463 mwe) and płock (596 mwe). in parallel, we took
steps to make our service stations more energy self-sufficient. pilot photovoltaic solar energy
projects implemented at pkn orlen facilities delivered promising results, which are now being
analysed. the project to deploy wind turbines at petrol stations, which is expected to take our
green technology solutions to the next level, was at a preliminary stage.

in 2016, the orlen group maintained its position of the retail market leader in the region.our
retail chain reported 1.4 million transactions daily, contributing to a record ebitda of pln 1.8bn.
we also broadened our range of non-fuel products and services, with around 1,691 stop cafe and
stop cafe bistro outlets operating on our home markets, including 1,500 in poland, 168 in the
czech republic, and 23 in lithuania. we made strategic efforts to roll out our food & beverage
and on-site convenience store formats. but not only that – we now also strategically target
a strong customer orientation and unique purchasing experience, planning to open 130 new-
format stop.cafe and o!shop outlets this year.

our macro environment, and the persistently low oil prices in particular, had a strong bearing on
the direction of our activities in upstream. in 2016, total 2p reserves of our production projects
increased from 97 mmboe to around 114 mmboe at the end of 2016. last year we also carried
out further work in our licence areas in poland: under a letter of intent signed with pgnig, drilling
of an exploration wells began in the wielkopolska region, and orlen upstream independently
launched a drilling programme in the małopolska region province. our new corporate strategy
announced late last year provides for cautious continuation of upstream projects with the
purpose of increasing the output and 2p reserves.

we managed to deliver our expansion plans while maintaining a stable financial position. in 2016,
we reduced our debt and the net debt ratio, and managed to further expand the portfolio of
available funding sources. during the year, pkn orlen, through its subsidiary orlen capital ab,



                                                  5

successfully placed a eur 750m eurobond issue. the largest issue of investment grade corporate
eurobonds made its debut on the catalyst markets of the warsaw stock exchange.

last year we made efforts to secure reliable feedstock supply sources, enhancing the security of
fuel supplies in poland. we also significantly strengthened our crude oil supplier base by
extending the contract with saudi aramco for another year. a new contract setting oil
transmission rates was signed with mero, and we entered into a contract with jadranski naftovod
of croatia whereby crude oil will be transported to our czech refineries via the janaf pipeline.
amendments were signed to contracts with rosneft and tatneft for the supply of crude oil to our
czech refineries. also, natural gas supplies were secured for another five years under a long-term
contract with pgnig.

in the czech republic, we brought pe3, our largest petrochemical unit, to the construction phase.
the project will increase the utilisation of the ethylene unit and facilitate stronger integration of
petrochemical and refining production at the unipetrol group. as part of the process to optimise
the orlen group’s asset base in the czech republic, benzina and ceska rafinerska were merged
with unipetrol rpa, with the latter transaction closed in early 2017. to better respond to the very
demanding and competitive market, and to open up to new business challenges, spolana,
previously a part of anwil, was incorporated into the unipetrol group through an intra-group
acquisition.

the orlen lietuva group delivered very good results last year. capitalising on the favourable
macroeconomic situation, it worked at nearly full capacity and substantially improved efficiency
in recent years. aware of how sensitive the mažeikiai refinery is to changes in the
macroeconomic landscape, we focused on preparing it for leaner times.

the orlen group proceeded with consolidation processes, to more flexibly respond to market
challenges. in 2016, we completed the sale of orlen transport. the aim of the process to
dispose of non-core assets is to build pkn orlen’s value in the long run.

throughout 2016 we worked on strengthening our innovation-oriented corporate culture.
initiatives in this area included the launch of ‘innovations, start-ups’, an online cooperation and
knowledge sharing platform dedicated to new technology solutions. also the crowdsourcing
contest, closed in 2016, to find solutions for recovery and utilisation of low-temperature heat,
attracted keen interest from innovators the world over. currently, we are working on projects
combining power generation and retail, to improve energy self-sufficiency of our petrol stations.
we are also running pilot tests of solutions based on such natural elements as bacteria absorbing
industrial odours or algea used to produce fuel biocomponents.

pkn orlen’s strategy, adopted in december 2016, is our response to the major shifts taking
place in the economic, social and technological landscape. we identified the strategic directions
to follow throughout the next five years and formulated detailed financial objectives for 2017 and
2018. our plans for profit and capex figures are ambitious but feasible. in 2017 and 2018, pkn
orlen expects to spend an average of pln 5.4bn a year on investment projects, of which pln
3.7bn in downstream, pln 0.6bn in retail, and up to pln 0.8bnin upstream. annual lifo-based
ebitda in the period is expected to average pln 8.8bn. the orlen group enjoys a sound market
and financial standing, so its strategy until 2021 does not herald any revolutionary changes but
guarantees stable growth.



                                                 6

a key factor contributing to our further steady development is the dedication of our people, one
of the pillars of pkn orlen’s strategy. our staff’s commitment to all their day-to-day duties
determines the orlen group’s market success. i would like to thank them for their work. my
special thanks go to members of the supervisory board for their support in everything we do to
meet our strategic objectives and build up pkn orlen’s strength.

corporate social responsibility (csr) is an integral part of the orlen group’s strategic
development plan. in pursuing business objectives, we are always guided by the principle that
value growth should be aligned with the interests of external stakeholders and rely on
sustainable and responsible use of resources. the overriding objective of the orlen group’s csr
efforts is to create value both for the group companies and for its stakeholders. the highest
ethical, social and environmental standards are not merely procedures, but are part and parcel of
the group’s day-to-day operations.with a view to building lasting and positive relations with all of
our stakeholders, this year again we have prepared an integrated report, which is our third
annual report based on the integrated reporting standards, combining financial data with
a description of non-financial aspects of our business. the report has been prepared in
accordance with the guidelines of the international integrated reporting council and the global
reporting initiative (g4 sustainability reporting guidelines).

have a good read!


wojciech jasiński
president of the management board, ceo
pkn orlen s.a.




                                                 7

orlen group 2016
pkn orlen is the parent of an international oil and
energy group, the largest company in central and
eastern europe, and the only polish company included
in the prestigious ‘fortune 500’ list of the world’s
largest companies.
the group owns state-of-the-art integrated infrastructure capable of processing more than
30 million tonnes of various crude oils per annum, marketing its products through the cee
region’s largest network of over 2,700 modern service stations. the group’s offering
encompasses over 50 top-quality petrochemical and refining products sold in more than
80 countries. as part of the efforts to expand its power business, the company has undertaken
two ccgt projects, in włocławek and płock, which are currently nearing completion. the group’s
upstream assets include 2p oil and gas reserves estimated at close to 114 million boe at the end
of 2016.

in 2016 the company has accomplished the largest market capitalisation on the warsaw stock
exchange, and most valuable polish brand, worth pln 3.9bn. pkn orlen is the only company in
its region to be included for the fourth consecutive time in the list of the most ethical companies
by the us-based ethisphere institute.



largest companies in central europe*




*
    source: raport central europe top 500, deloitte




                                                      8

2. pkn orlen shareholders1

     listed on the wse since 1999
     indices: wig, wig20, wig30, wig-poland, wig-paliwa, respect
     market capitalisation at the end of 2016: pln 36.5bn




                                           9

1)
     based on disclosures for the pkn orlen extraordinary general meeting of january 24th 2017




upstream segment




                                                            10

1)
     barrel of oil equivalent
2)
     proven & probable reserves




downstream segment




3)
     the refinery in paramo does not process crude oil




                                                         11

retail segment




2016 highlights




                  12

           revenue pln 79.6bn
           record sales volumes 39.5m tonnes
           record fuel sales 10bn litres
           2p oil and gas reserves 114 million boe**
           volume of crude processed 30.1m tonnes
           dividend paid for 2015 pln 0.9bn/pln 2.00 per share
           2016 dividend recommended by the management board pln 3.00 per share
           orlen brand worth pln 3.9bn according to a ranking published by the rzeczpospolita daily

*
 before impairment losses on assets of pln 0.2bn, mainly including pln 0.3bn in reversals of impairment losses on
unipetrol’s refining assets, and pln (0.1)bn in impairment losses on orlen oil’s assets and orlen upstream’s polish
assets
**
     barrel of oil equivalent

more: orlen in figures




                                                           13

top 10 poducts based on share of revenue
                                            pln


diesel fuels                               34 078m


gasolines                                  20 446m


heavy heating oil                          2 317m


lpg                                        1 905m


jet a-1                                    1 802m


pta                                        1 571m


ethylene                                   1 159m


light heating oil ekoterm                  1 139m


bitumens                                   1 101m


polyvinyl chloride                          996m




                            14

links between business segments




key events in 2016



                                   2016

january
    the czech subsidiary unipetrol
    announces the acquisition of
    68 service stations in the czech
    republic from omv read more >>
    first power fed into the national grid
    from the ccgt unit in włocławek
    the 463 mwe ccgt unit comes


                                             15

        onstream in włocławek
        read more >>
        changes in the supervisory board of
        pkn orlen read more >>

february
        photovoltaic modules are installed
        under a pilot project at 11 service
        stations in poland
        changes in the management board
        of pkn orlen read more >>
        for the fifth consecutive time pkn
        orlen wins the coveted title of the
        top employer in poland

march
        pkn orlen management board
        resolves to recommend to the
        annual general meeting a dividend
        distribution from the 2015 profit of
        pln 2.00 per share
        pkn orlen launches a pilot cctv
        scheme at a fuel depot and adopts
        rfid (radio frequency
        identification) technology to track
        rail wagons under its management
        read more >>
        for the third year running, pkn
        orlen is awarded the prestigious
        title of the world’s most ethical
        company by an international panel
        of experts at the us ethisphere
        institute read more >>

april
        winners are selected in the first
        global crowdsourcing competition
        held by a polish company, initiated
        to find an optimum technology
        solution for the efficient recovery
        and utilisation of low-temperature
        heat from distillation columns
        read more >>
        unipetrol signs a contract with the
        czech pipeline operator mero,
        setting new rates for oil


                                               16

       transmission read more >>

may
       fitch ratings affirms pkn orlen's
       long-term credit rating at bbb-, with
       a stable outlook read more >>
       pkn orlen and saudi aramco sign
       a contract for crude oil supplies to
       the company's refineries read more
       >>
       pkn orlen and pern sa sign
       a letter of intent to work out an
       optimal solution to improve the
       efficiency of fuel supplies to the
       warsaw agglomeration

june
       pkn orlen signs an annex to the
       contract with the rosneft oil
       company for crude oil supplies to
       unipetrol in the czech republic
       read more >>
       unipetrol launches its new project to
       build a polyethylene unit (pe3) in
       litvínov read more >>
       orlen capital ab, pkn orlen's
       subsidiary, issues eurobonds
       read more >>
       pkn orlen and pko bank polski
       sign a letter of intent to declare their
       intention to cooperate on offering
       co-branded products for customers
       at pkn orlen's service stations
       a new mobile payment system,
       mflota, is launched, enabling
       customers at orlen-branded
       service stations to pay for fuel at the
       pump
       pkn orlen holds an annual general
       meeting read more >>
       appointments are made to the pkn
       orlen supervisory board for a new
       term read more >>

july
       pkn orlen signs an annex to the


                                                  17

    contract for the construction of
    a ccgt unit in włocławek with the
    building consortium of general
    electric and snc-lavalin polska
    read more >>
    pgnig and orlen upstream sign
    a letter of intent concerning joint
    exploration, appraisal and
    production of hydrocarbons in new
    areas in poland read more >>
    orlen upstream sp. z o.o. of
    warsaw (the surviving company) is
    merged with orlen upstream
    international b.v. of amsterdam (the
    target) read more >>

august
    pkn orlen and elektrobudowa
    sign a turnkey contract for
    engineering, procurement and
    construction of a metathesis unit at
    the płock plant
    fitch ratings upgrades pkn orlen's
    national credit rating from 'a-(pol)'
    to 'a(pol)'

september
    pkn orlen and pgnig sign
    a contract for gas fuel supplies to
    the orlen group in poland
    changes in the supervisory board of
    pkn orlen read more >>

october
    fx energy (pkn orlen's upstream
    subsidiary) and pgnig launch
    natural gas production from the
    karmin field in the poznań province
    read more >>
    the kralupy refinery resumes
    operation after the failure of the
    fluid catalytic cracker

november
    unipetrol signs a contract with
    croatia's jadranski naftovod for the


                                            18

    transmission of crude oil via the
    janaf pipeline
    the extension option is exercised
    via a contract with saudi aramco for
    crude oil supplies to the company's
    polish, czech and lithuanian
    refineries read more >>
    tests of an innovative technology
    for removing volatile organic
    compounds from polluted air
    streams are run at pkn orlen's
    płock facilities

december
    pkn orlen unveils its growth
    strategy for 2017−2021 read more
    >>
    pkn orlen buys crude oil from the
    national iranian oil company
    read more >>
    pkn orlen signs an annex to
    a contract with tatnef europe ag for
    crude oil supplies to its litvínov
    refinery read more >>
    pkn orlen launches 'innovations,
    start-ups', an online cooperation
    and knowledge-sharing platform
    devoted to new technologies”
    read more >>




                                           19

shares and shareholding structure
pkn orlen shares are quoted on the main market of
the warsaw stock exchange in the continuous quoting
system and are included in wig, wig20, wig30, wig-
poland and wig-fuels – the industry index.
since 19 november 2009 pkn orlen`s shares have been included in the index of companies
engaged in corporate social responsibility, this is called the respect index.

the share capital of pkn orlen is divided into 427 709 061 ordinary bearer shares with
a nominal value of pln 1.25. the ownership rights of pkn orlen’s shares are fully transferable.

pkn orlen shareholders1:




1
    based on disclosures for the pkn orlen extraordinary general meeting of january 24th 2017.


in 2016 the largest companies stock market index wig20 increased by 4.8% (y/y), while the wig
index increased by 11.4% (y/y). in this period pkn orlen’s share price increased by 25.7% (y/y.
in 2016, 265 965 219 shares changed hands on the market, that is 18% less in comparison to
2015.

key data regarding pkn orlen’s share




                                                            20

             key data                  unit            2016             2015            2014          change %


                   1                     2               3               4               5            6=(3-4)/4


     net profit attributable            mln                  5 261         2 837         (5 811)         85.4%
     to equity owners of                pln
     the parent company



     highest share price1               pln                  87.17         85.25             49.50        2.3%


                             1
     lowest share price                 pln                  57.64         47.75             36.88       20.7%



     share price at the                 pln                  85.30         67.85             48.92       25.7%
              1
     year-end


     average price in the               pln                  68.56         65.84             42.26        4.1%
     period1



     p/e ratio average2                                        5.6             9.9           ( 3.1)     (43.4%)



     p/e ratio at the end of                                   6.9           10.2            (3.6)      (32.4%)
     the year


     number of shares                  item        427 709 061       427 709 061     427 709 061          0.0%


     capitalisation at year             pln              36 484          29 020          20 924          25.7%
     end                                mn


     average daily trading              pln                    73              86               34      (15.1%)
     value                              mn


     average daily trading             item            1 059 622       1 288 482        796 614         (17.8%)
     volume



1)
     share price according to a closing share price.




                                                               21

2)
     p/e – stock market price / eps.

the list of financial institutions which issue recommendations and reports relating to the shares
of pkn orlen1


                   situated in poland                                 situated outside of poland



     bdm                     haitong bank       bank of america merrill lynch       morgan stanley


     boś                           ipopema                        berenberg              raiffeisen


     bz wbk                            mbank             concorde securities    renaissance capital


     citi                              pkobp                            erste     societe generale


     deutsche bank                     vestor                goldman sachs                     ubs


                                                                       hsbc               unicredit


                                                                  j.p. morgan                wood



1)
     as at the date of 3 february 2017.

current list of recommendations issued for the company’s shares is available on the corporate
website under: www.orlen.pl

key events alongside the quotations of pkn orlen in 2016:




                                                    22

source: own calculations based on data from portal gpwinfostrefa.com.




quotations of pkn orlen on wse in 1999 – 2016:




source: own calculations based on data from portal gpwinfostrefa.com.


quotations of pkn orlen, wig20 and wig-fuels on wse in 20161




1)
     percentage change of quotations of pkn orlen, wig 20 in relation to the listing of 30 december 2015.



                                                                        23

source: own calculations based on data from portal gpwinfostrefa.com.


dividend policy
the dividend policy assumed a gradual increase in the level of dividend per share by taking into
account the implementation of strategic financial indicators and forecasts of the macroeconomic
situation. this method does not relate the dividend to net profit, which in the orlen group’s area
of operations is subject to high fluctuations and can include non‑cash items, such as the
revaluation of assets, inventories or loans and as a result does not fully reflect the group’s
current financial situation.

the recommendation of profit distribution for pkn orlen for 2016 is presented in point 7.2.7.6.
of the consolidated financial statement for 2016.

information on dividends paid out by pkn orlen in previous years can be found on the
company’s corporate website at
www.orlen.pl/pl/relacjeinwestorskie/gielda/strony/dywidenda.aspx




                                                         24

business model




                 25

26

orlen group’s structure




for management purposes, the orlen group is divided into the 3 operating segments:
downstream, retail, upstream and corporate functions.

the orlen group includes pkn orlen as the parent company and entities located in poland,
germany, the czech republic, lithuania, malta, sweden, the netherlands, slovakia, hungary,
estonia, latvia, the usa and canada.

as at 31 december 2016 the orlen group consisted of 70 companies, including 59 subsidiaries.

pkn orlen as the parent company of the group is a multisegment entity, appropriately allocated
to all operating segments and corporate functions.

capital and organisational relations in the orlen group as at 31 december 2016:




                                              27

the orlen group is striving to strengthen the position of its companies in the area of their
primary activities and to extend the energy segment. at the same time is focusing on the
improvement of management, restructuring and consolidation of assets.

the purpose of these measures is to increase the market value of the orlen group, to
strengthen its position on the parent markets, as well as to extend its supply chain. the primary
developmental investments aim at further expanding the product portfolio and the degree of
conversion, generating new energy powers and prudent continuation of projects related to the
exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons.

holding management principles, i.e. solutions aiming at the implementation of shared goals for
companies in the orlen group, defined by the parent company, were implemented to ensure
effective management. the solution has been implemented on the basis of the orlen group’s
constitution stipulating three key regulations: the agreement for cooperation, the group
regulations, and the provisions of orlen group company statutes/agreement.


                                                28

the constitution provided for the standardisation of exchange of information, effective
monitoring of key business decisions, as well as for the standardisation of organisation norms.
furthermore, the constitution defines the legal basis for the formation of a cohesive strategy for
the orlen group.

effective pkn orlen corporate supervision over the companies of the group is based on the
supervision of their operating activity, as well as their financial and formal-legal supervision.




                                                  29

value creation
    by discovering and processing natural
         resources, we fuel the future




                      30

our products, services and brands
our products and services are highly esteemed by both
retail and institutional customers. for years, orlen has
been the leader of the ‘most valuable polish brands’
ranking compiled by the rzeczpospolita daily.




  top 10 products in terms of sales revenue [pln m]




                           31

                                      main services:
for service station customers:

a) services available at service stations:

      convenience stores
      stop cafe, stop cafe bistro, stop cafe 2.0 catering services
      car wash facilities
      ‘stacja z paczką’ courier service
      facilities for the disabled, children and cyclists

b) customer loyalty programmes:

      vitay programme
      fuel cards for cashless payments for fuel and services at service stations:
      flota, mflota mobile app, open drive, biznestank, mikroflota

for businesses:
      end-to-end waste management, ground and water environmental monitoring,
      environmental protection (documentation, etc.), cleaning of industrial units, full range of
      occupational health and safety as well as fire safety services
      complete service station construction services; manufacture and assembly of steel
      structures
      end-to-end property management
      personal and property protection, cash-in-transit services, installation and maintenance of
      technical security systems, monitoring of alarm systems, fuel transport control, safety
      audits, facility cleaning services
      railway transport, lease of rail cars and management of rolling stock
      sale of gas pumps; tank monitoring systems, management systems, automation controls;
      maintenance and repair of equipment associated with service stations and fuel terminals
      road transport of fuels and other flammable liquid products
      bookkeeping services
      laboratory services
      mechanical, electric system and automation services




                                                32

key brands:




    33

our markets
the orlen group operates in five parent markets -
poland, the czech republic, germany, lithuania and
canada. our products reach more than 80 countries
located on 5 continents.




 company:




  service stations

  production assets

  refining assets

  petrochemical assets

  power generating assets




                            34

integrated management system
pkn orlen is committed to supplying the highest-
quality products to its customers, while striving to
make its operations as neutral to the natural
environment as possible, to achieve superior energy
efficiency, and to maintain high ohs and information
security standards.
to deliver on that promise, the company has in place an integrated management system (ims),
consistently perfected and developed. the ims includes:

      a quality management system based on pn-en iso 9001:2009,
      a quality management system based on aqap 2120:2009,
      an environmental management system based on pn-en iso 14001:2005,
      an occupational health and safety management system based on pn-n-18001:2004,
      an information security management system based on pn-iso/iec 27001:2014,
      an international sustainability & carbon certification system (iscc eu),
      a factory production control system (zkp),
      a haccp system compliant with codex alimentarius standards.

the precautionary principle, environmental damage prevention and effective workplace and
information safety management are ensured through standardisation and implementation of
systematic mechanisms, which also include preventive measures. the precautionary principle is
supported by systematic mechanisms that pre-emptively address potential irregularities and are
based on process analysis and elements of risk and opportunity assessment.

in keeping with the precautionary principle, when conducting business we take measures to
prevent any environmental damage.

work which commenced in 2014 to implement the energy management system based on the iso
50001 standard was continued, with a pilot energy review being one of the steps taken as part of
the project.

as part of the roll-out of the haccp system, implementation of the system standards was
continued at around 250 dofo service stations. in may and june 2016, auditors of bureau veritas
certification (bvc) and of the quality certification centre of the military university of technology
carried out recertification audits of the integrated management system. as a result, the company
was certified for compliance with the requirements of individual standards for the following years.




                                                35

audits − external and internal verification of the
integrated management system
in january 2016, polskie centrum badań i certyfikacji s.a. (pcbc) carried out a certification audit
of the production control system. the audit covered the płock-based organisational units
involved in comprehensive control and monitoring of preparation, production and release for sale
of road bitumens and modified polymers, manufactured in compliance with the following
european standards:

      road bitumens: standard pn-en 12591 ‘bitumen and bituminous binders − specifications
      for paving grade bitumens’,
      polymer modified bitumens: standard pn-en 14023 ‘bitumen and bituminous binders −


                                                36

      specification framework for polymer modified bitumens’.

the audit did not reveal any non-compliance and the compliance certificates for the production
control system were maintained.

in may 2016, the auditors representing:

      bureau veritas polska (bv) carried out a surveillance audit of the integrated management
      system,
      the quality certification centre of the military university of technology conducted
      a surveillance audit of the aqap-2120 quality management system.

the audits did not reveal any non-compliance. correctness of the system operation was
confirmed, and the validity of the certificates of compliance of the integrated management
system with the requirements of pn-en iso 9001:2009, pn-en iso 14001:2005, pn-
n-18001:2004, aqap 2120:2009, and pn-iso/iec 27001:2014 standards was maintained.

in june 2016, bureau veritas polska’s auditors carried out a certification audit in accordance with
the renewable energy directive. the audit did not reveal any non-compliance, and our
operations were certified to be compliant with the renewable energy directive and iscc eu
certification system (eu-iscc-cert-pl214-28012406) endorsed by the european commission.

in 2016, there were 496 internal audits of the integrated management system, 15 audits of
compliance of the co2 emissions monitoring system, 15 audits at product vendors and service
providers, and six audits of the iscc. effectiveness of the system was also confirmed by the rising
number of instances of non-compliance revealed during internal audits in 2016 − up 19.8%.

management systems at the orlen group
in 2016, work continued to standardise management systems across the orlen group with
a view to harmonising the management model with the growth strategy of pkn orlen as
a regional leader in central europe which builds its value through efficiency improvement,
rational investments and growth in new areas.

the group companies implemented ims initiatives based on management system guidelines for
the orlen group and a certification timetable for their respective management systems. steps
were taken to arrange for joint certification: a request for proposals was issued, and the
responses received from the market confirmed the potential for optimising the certification
processes while driving down the group’s costs of maintaining the certificates.




                                                37

core values and standards of conduct
the ‘core values and standards of conduct’ of pkn
orlen s.a. offer guidance on relationships inside and
outside the company. the document regulates our
relationships with trading partners, local communities
and competitors.




the document ‘core values and standards of conduct‘ of pkn orlen s.a. covers all ethical
issues. it serves as a guide to the company’s relationships with internal stakeholders and the
external business environment – including trading partners, local communities, the natural
environment, and competitors. it promotes the fair treatment of all employees and customers
regardless of their age, sex, job, denomination, nationality, convictions or belief systems. the
document also contains provisions on anti-corruption procedures, as well as a commitment to

                                                38

foster and comply with the rules of fair competition, transparency of business activities, mutual
respect, and professionalism. the ‘core values and standards of conduct’ of pkn orlen
s.a.,which have also been implemented at the group companies, complement the company’s
new business strategy by placing an emphasis on building good relationships within the
organisation. in 2016, the company also adopted the pkn orlen ‘supplier code of conduct‘.

the company’s employees and external stakeholders, such as customers or trading partners,
may report any breach or suspected breach of the company’s core values and standards of
conduct connected with any events in the workplace or behaviour of pkn orlen’s employees.
a variant path has been defined for reporting and analysing information on actual or suspected
breaches, depending on the severity and complexity of the problem and on the confidence of the
parties involved. a suspected breach of the ‘core values and standards of conduct‘ of pkn
orlen s.a. or any ethical dilemmas may be reported to:

      the line manager,
      senior managers,
      the ethics officer,
      the human capital committee.




management of the ethical programme is understood to be the implementation of the company’s
core values, the development of suitable mechanisms to support conduct compliant with those
values, and building a sense of shared responsibility for ethical conduct.



                                                39

issues related to human rights and principles of business ethics are discussed at training
sessions, internal meetings and lectures for employees. as part of the adaptation programme,
new employees are introduced to pkn orlen’s core values and standards of conduct by
participating in a training game. training in solving ethical dilemmas is also available on the
electronic training platform.

in 2016, the ethics officer received no information on any corruption events or behaviour or any
conflicts of interest. in the reporting period, there were no cases of discrimination on the grounds
of sex, race, age or disability.

several orlen group companies have appointed ethics committees or ethics officers.

the company’s employees and external stakeholders, such as customers or trading partners,
may report any breach or suspected breach of the company’s core values and standards of
conduct via the corporate website www.orlen.pl.

in order to reinforce the ‘core values and standards of conduct‘ and promote desirable attitudes
and behaviour among the group’s personnel, a number of initiatives for employees were
implemented, including hr programmes and projects based on the core values, the ‘value based
management’ evaluation, and the distinguished pkn orlen employee title awarded for socially-
oriented attitudes and observance of the core values. orlen olympics, the annual sports games
for employees, are the largest group-wide project, which combines healthy sport competition
based on fair play and the company’s core values. in the past three years, thousands of pkn
orlen employees and their families participated in the event. every year, two thousand
employees compete is sport disciplines, and nearly twenty thousand people participate in picnics
(in 2016, the picnic was open also to the inhabitants of płock).

the employee volunteering programme is another project enhancing the corporate culture across
the orlen group. the programme was established in 2004, and was developed over the years
based on the initiatives suggested by employees. thanks to the changes to the employee
volunteering programme (three schemes and a number of participation options for all employees,
regardless of their job and position in the company), as well as the broad range of activities
offered, the number of charity actions and employees involved in the programme is growing by
the year. in 2016 alone, 79 volunteering projects were undertaken, with nearly five thousand
employees involved. a new project ‘good energy factory’ was rolled out at the płock production
plant, as part of which 450 production employees provided assistance to those in need (12 repair
and overhaul projects for 8 social care institutions) in płock and its vicinity.

each project is driven by our core values, which fuels other internal projects such as ‘orlen
passion’ (assistance offered to the employees who have specific interests or hobbies), general
development training, thematic contests, the open doors day for the families of employees
combined with environmental protection, health and safety education, as well as traditional year-
end meetings of the management board with employees.

pkn orlen’s value-based corporate culture is constantly evolving in response to the needs of the
ever-changing environment. the welcome direction of the changes and adopted documents were
recognised not only in poland, but also abroad. in 2014, 2015 and 2016, the american ethisphere
institute awarded the world’s most ethical company title to pkn orlen as the only
representative of the cee region in this prestigious ranking. at the same time, pkn orlen, as the


                                                 40

region’s leader of business ethics, became a partner of the polish ‘ethical company’ competition,
whose goal is to create the polish version of the most ethical companies list.




                                               41

our stakeholders
the orlen group’s relations with stakeholders are built on responsibility, transparency and
dialogue. to ensure the highest quality of relations with the stakeholders, the methods and
frequency of communication are tailored to the characteristics and current expectations of each
stakeholder group.

as part of our work on this integrated report, we again reviewed the orlen group’s stakeholder
map. our analysis showed that the stakeholder base has been rather stable for many years.
internal consultations and the survey allowed us to identify those orlen group stakeholders who
at the next stage of the map review were classified as key or important stakeholders.
representatives of various areas of the orlen group’s business were involved in the review. as
a result of the review, a new stakeholder group was added – innovators and startups. the
following have been identified as key stakeholders: employees, shareholders, customers and the
state treasury.




                                              42

legend:
grey - important stakeholders
red - key stakeholders




                                43

macroeconomic factors
oil companies operate in the sector of commodities −
homogeneous products such as crude oil, fuels and
petrochemical products, manufactured and sold by
numerous producers worldwide.
a company supplying commodities is easily replaceable by another supplier offering the same
commodity for a lower price, this fact significantly constrains the suppliers’ ability to control
prices. consequently, both suppliers and buyers of commodities make transactions at prices
driven by the supply and demand interaction of the market.

the key external decision drivers for oil companies with a bearing on their production, growth
and financial performance are:

      quoted crude oil prices (usd),
      quoted prices of fuels (usd) and petrochemical products (usd and eur),
      usd and eur exchange rates.

price path projections take into account factors that reflect changes in both supply and demand:

      the economic growth rate in oecd countries, where oil demand has been declining since
      2005, and in non-oecd countries, where peak demand is yet to be seen; the changes in
      demand for crude oil and petroleum products are driven to a large extent by china and
      india,
      growth of global crude output in opec and non-opec countries,
      oecd oil inventories and oil reserves in countries opec ,
      geopolitical risks,
      changes in regulations on greenhouse gas emissions by energy producers and transport
      operators.

the frequency and status of information about these factors vary. prices and the usd exchange
rate, i.e. hard data, change continuously and are available in real time. the economic growth
rate, as measured by the gdp, is an estimate published quarterly and subject to frequent
corrections. in contrast, information about actual and potential supply disruptions caused by
geopolitical developments emerges unexpectedly and leads to instant price changes. the effect
of price changes on supply and demand is significantly delayed if lower or higher prices continue
for several quarters.

since the time when the oil market was affected by an oversupply which had gone unnoticed for
a time, attention has been paid to the production structure. among non-opec countries, the
united states and canada are characterised by a very short cycle of unconventional onshore oil
production, a large number of oil producers, and quick adjustments to production volumes in
response to oil price changes. the strong interaction between the level of output from
unconventional fields and oil price changes is attributable to the extremely short production
cycle. the average time necessary to launch unconventional oil production is only 90 days vs. 3-5
years needed for the development of a shallow water oil deposit or 8 years for deep-water
offshore oil production. this factor has also contributed to the fast-growing oil supply in non-opec


                                                 44

countries.

among the opec countries, saudi arabia stands out due to its immediately available production
reserves and the control it has over the oil production policy of the cartel and the group of five
countries: saudi arabia, kuwait, iraq, iran, and united arab emirates, given its strong potential to
produce oil at low cost.

another important factor now in focus are exploration and production costs. these costs play
a major role in long-term oil price projections (supply and demand balance). the price of a barrel
of oil may not be lower than the cost to produce one barrel of oil from the most expensive
reserve, required to meet effective demand. as oil reserves are depleting, it will become
necessary to drill down to more challenging resources, and the resulting higher costs of
production will lead to rising oil prices

we have decided not to include financial institutions in the list of factors affecting the
macroeconomic environment of oil companies even though the value of futures contracts they
execute is many times higher than the value of physical market transactions. in our view,
supported by numerous studies, transactions made by financial institutions increase oil price
susceptibility to changes, but do not affect price change trends. in both speculative and
investment transactions, financial institutions act on the basis of the same fundamental factors
as those taken into account by the participants in the physical markets, including oil companies.




                                                 45

market environment
i. market trends in the downstream sector
crude oil price

at the beginning of 2016 a brent crude oil barrel cost usd 30. in june 2016 its price rose to more
than usd 48, then grew in magnitude and at the end of the year amounted to usd 55. the
increase in prices in 2016 is a result of i.a. an unexpected opec agreement signed on
30 november 2016. it will lead to a reduction in crude oil extraction in the countries of the cartel.
the agreement is to be joined by i.a. russia, mexico and kazakhstan.

changes in crude oil production in opec – december 2016 – january 2017 [million bbl/d]:




source: ihs markit

              a. demand and supply of raw material

high crude oil supply, compared with the level of demand over the horizon of a single year, will
affect the level of prices - according to the forecasts of the international energy agency (iea),
a balance between demand and production of the raw material will be reached in 2018.

crude oil market in 2015-2021 [million bbl/d]:




                                                 46

           item                 2015         2016         2017       2018    2019    2020    2021



  world demand                   94.4         95.6            96.9   98.2    99.3    100.5   101.6


  total world                    96.4         96.7            97.0   97.8    98.7     99.5   100.5
  supply, including:


  - non-opec supply              57.7         57.1            57.0   57.6    58.3     58.9     59.7


  - opec                         38.7         39.6            40.0   40.2    40.4     40.6     40.8


  implied stock                   2.0           1.1            0.1    -0.4    -0.6    -1.0     -1.1
  change



source: data according to international energy agency (iea)

in 2016 oil demand in the world increased by 1.2 million bbl/d and it is predicted that this
average rate of growth will be maintained until 2021. the supply increased by only 0.3 million
bbl/d. teh disproportion between the growth of supply and demand will contribute to the
depletion of the global oil supply beginning in 2018.

              b. potential directions of changes in crude oil prices

in the medium-term perspective until 2020, the majority of publicly available analyses and
forecasts assume an increase in crude oil prices. here are the main aspects which will be
influencing prices in the next two years:

       opec’s production policy – the opec agreement of november 2016 should lead to a cut in
       crude oil production in q1 and q2 2017 and mitigate the risk of prices declining in the next
       two or three quarters. the effects of the agreement have already been reflected in oil
       prices, although the market is turning this to its advantage with lower-than-planned cuts in
       crude oil production.
       the reaction of producers in the usa to higher crude oil prices – the predicted higher oil
       prices may stimulate production in the usa, and a higher supply of oil will reach the market
       after two or three quarters following the price increase, potentially contributing to
       a decrease in prices. producers who find it profitable to produce oil when the price is higher
       will enter the market. if the price of crude oil decreases more strongly, the rate of increase
       of production in the usa will slow down accordingly. the potential reaction will be delayed
       by several quarters due to fact that producers wil secure themselves against the risk of oil
       prices going down.
       production in libya and nigeria – one of the risk factors for crude oil prices in 2017 is the
       production in libya and nigeria, two of the opec countries excluded from the agreed


                                                          47

       production cuts. both countries have a production potential that may be increased (or
       further decreased) by several hundred thousand barrels a day as a result of prevention or
       escalation of domestic armed conflict.
       fluctuations in the exchange rate of the us dollar – the exchange rate of the us currency is
       not without influence on the prospects for oil prices; the us dollar appreciated strongly
       after the election of donald trump as the us president against the euro and against the
       currencies of emerging economies. the dollar’s appreciation influences the increases of oil
       and fuel prices in those countries’ markets.
       geopolitics – potential escalation of armed conflict in the middle east and africa, which may
       have an impact on supply limitations and, consequently, an increase in the crude oil price.

the above mentioned factors imply a slow rise in oil prices from quarter to quarter from about
usd 49/bbl in q4 2016 to around usd 60/bbl in the fourth quarter of 2018 (ihs markit).

change in prices of crude oil [usd/bbl]:




source: ihs markit

downstream - sale and production

a significant increase in margins in 2015 and their stabilisation in 2016 were supported by lower
oil prices in the preceding years and by growing demand for products of crude oil throughput.


                                                 48

despite the predicted decline of the concern’s downstream margin in comparison to high
margins in 2015-2016, it will still remain at a favourable level in 2017.

refining margins in europe [usd/bbl]:




source: ihs markit

in the short- and medium-term perspective, refinery margins in europe will be shaped by
competitive pressure. the main factors influencing margins are the following: the advantage of
us and middle eastern refineries due to low energy cost vs. relatively high energy costs in
europe, modernisation of european refineries contributing to the extension of processing, as well
as the growing competitiveness of exports from the middle east, supplying fuel not only to asia,
but now also to europe.

in the longer-term perspective, the refinery margins will depend on the demand for products
made from processed crude oil. the reasons for the changes in those margins should be sought
in the more extensive structural changes in the market for fuel, diesel oil and petrochemical
products. while stagnation or a slight decrease in demand for petroleum products in the
transport sector are expected, major analytical institutions predict an increase in the significance
of petrochemicals.

the increase in the demand for gasoline in europe in the years 2015–2016 was driven mainly by


                                                 49

decreasing crude oil prices – lower fuel prices translate into an increase in their consumption. in
the medium-term, the forecasts related to the demand for refinery products assume stabilisation
due to the unchanging demand for gasoline, the flat and uncertain demand for diesel oil, and the
growing demand for jet fuel and petrochemical products.

the stabilisation of demand for gasoline results mainly from efforts to reduce the emission
intensity of the european economies, and the increased use of biofuels.

in the context of demand for diesel oil, a series of new factors emerged in the fuel market in
2016, making it less likely to grow in the coming years. these factors include:

      the scandal related to the measurements of harmful substances in diesel engines of
      german manufacturers.
      research currently in progress, carried out by eu countries, concerning emissions of
      harmful substances emitted by diesel engines which may have a significant impact on the
      sales of diesel-fuelled cars, potentially leading to a decrease in diesel oil consumption.
      legislative work currently in progress in the netherlands and in norway related to a ban on
      the sale of petrol- and diesel-fuelled cars by 2025.
      the growing popularity of alternative fuels; the withdrawal of japanese manufacturers from
      the production of economical diesel engines to develop engines using alternative fuels
      (electricity, natural gas).

change in the forecast for the demand for diesel oil in europe in 2015-2025 (2015=100%):




                                                50

source: jbc energy, ihs markit

one needs to bear in mind, however, that the fuel market in europe has one of the lowest growth
prospects in the world. the total global consumption of diesel and petrol is going to grow at
a relatively low rate of 0.3% annually. however, the international increase in consumption is to
a large extent polarised – the european and north american markets remain stable, while real
growth takes place in emerging markets.

in the short- and medium-term perspective, electric cars will not have a significant impact on the
fuel market – in europe, electric cars will have accounted for only 4% of the car fleet by 2030,
while traditional internal combustion engines will account for over 60%. the number of electric
cars is going to grow from 0.9 million in 2015 to 12.5 million in 2030. hybrid cars may have
a significant share in the structure of eu fleets: according to forecasts by jbc, 74 million of them
may appear by 2030 (82 million together with diesel hybrids), representing an annual average
growth of 28% vs. 1.8 million in 2015.

passenger cars fleet structure in the european union in 2010-2030 [millions of vehicles]:




source: jbc energy

in the long-term perspective, the petrochemical industry may support demand for products made
from processed crude oil, thus building refinery margins – the growing implementation of modern


                                                 51

plastic materials in the global economy.

central and eastern europe is one of the fastest-growing markets in terms of demand for
petrochemical products, produced by the orlen group (polypropylene, ethylene, butadiene,
paraxylene, pta and pvc).

change in consumption of selected petrochemical products in central-eastern europe [thousand
tonnes/year]:




source: nexant

as the demand for petrochemical products grows, so does the competitive pressure – visible in
particular in europe:

      olefins (ethylene, propylene, butadiene) – strong pressure exerted by imports from the
      middle east and north american regions due to the cost advantage. european production
      based on kerosene is and will continue to be relatively less competitive, assuming the
      gradual growth of crude oil prices.
      aromas (benzene, toluene, xylene, paraxylene) – a decrease is predicted in the production
      capacities for benzene and toluene in western europe by 2030. the producers of aromas
      are going to strive to extend the value chain towards paraxylene and there is a potential
      risk of rising imports of benzene to western europe.
      plastic materials (polyethylene, polypropylene, pvc) – the packaging sector is the biggest
      area using plastics in europe (40% of the demand). price pressure is predicted for ethylene
      derivatives due to the shale gas revolution in the usa. the demand fluctuations will
      severely affect producers who are not very innovative and whose margins are based mainly
      on the production scale.

downstream - power industry

according to the main scenario (new policies) of the world energy outlook 2016 report created
by the international energy agency, global demand for electricity will grow at a rate of 2% per
year and will increase by two-thirds by 2040. the world economy will keep growing during this
period at a rate of 3.4% per year. these trends represent a substantive change compared with
the period of 1990-2014, in which both parameters grew at an almost identical pace. in today's


                                               52

conditions the cheapest and also the most common source of electricity generation in the world
is coal. however, in the long run it will be replaced by natural gas, hydropower and renewable
energy sources. this change will be dictated by the necessity of decarbonisation of industry and
fuel prices. in the coming decades significant changes will occur to the sources of power
generation. between 2008 and 2014 the share of wind energy increased by 4 percentage points
and solar energy by 3 percentage points. by 2040 the share of these sources in electricity
generation is expected to triple. coal power will continue its structural decline, whereas gas
power will grow gradually until 2030, after which it will begin to slightly reduce its share in the
global energy mix.

demand and sources of electric energy in europe:




source: international energy agency


in the power engineering area of the downstream segment of the orlen group, the key market
is poland – it provides a favourable growth outlook due to lower energy consumption compared to
most european countries. energy consumption per capita in poland is much lower than the eu
average and amounted to approx. 4.3 mwh/person in 2016, vs. the eu average of 5.5
mwh/person. in the years 2010–2016, energy demand grew at an average rate of around 1.5%
annually. until 2020, the rate of growth is expected to be at a level of around 1.8% (cagr by
cera), and this increase will be above all correlated with the country’s economic development.

a significant part of the existing generation capacities in poland require modernization or
replacement due to their age and high emission intensity. it is estimated that, in the absence of
appropriate economic signals, around 10 gw of generation capacities will have been
decommissioned by 2025, which is the main reason why the power engineering segment is being
developed within the orlen group and why two power units are being erected with a total
capacity of over 1 gw.




                                                 53

ii. market trends in the retail sector
almost the whole of 2016 was a period of continuously low fuel prices at the stations, which
limited the attractiveness of the economic networks. premium stations began to acquire more
recognitionfrom customers. customers were more eager to buy premium fuel and paid more
attention to available non-fuel products and the gastronomic menu. in 2016 work related to new
concepts of shops in the stations was implemented. the operators of fuel stations established
a cooperation with large gastronomic networks and began to work on their own formats and
brands. large oil companies focused on the launch of new solutions and functionalities, based on
new technologies, tools and it systems, mainly in the area of new forms of payment, ordering,
communicating with customers and improving the operational management of the network.

on the polish market, the effects of the legislative amendments aimed at limiting the so-called
"shadow economy" were evident. to a great extent, they had an influence on the level of
wholesale; however, in the retail segment, they resulted in an increase in the number of
independent fuel stations operating in the market.

in the first half of 2016 lukoil, which has a network of 230 stations in poland, lithuania and
latvia, decided to withdraw from the market and sell its retail assets to an austrian company
amic energy management. in recent years lukoil has sold its stations in ukraine, hungary,
slovakia, the czech republic and estonia. austrian investor plan to develop their retail business
in the markets of central and eastern europe in the upcoming years.

in 2016, there was another year of growth in the number of fuel stations operating in the polish
market - nearly 200 new facilities were launched. more than 75% of these are independently
operated stations.
the number of petrol stations in the networks of foreign concerns remained at a level similar to
2015. in 2017 the rebranding process of statoil stations (acquired several years ago by the
canadian company alimentation couche-tard) will begin. all of the stations are to operate under
the circle-k brand.

on the czech market, the number of fuel stations in 2016 remained at the same level as the
previous year. however, the structure of the market has changed, a portion of the small non-
public stations transformed into generally available facilities, thereby increasing competition in
the marketplace. an important change in the retail fuel market in the czech republic was that
most networks introduced refined fuels, which replaced standard fuels.

on the german market, there were no major structural changes. the foregoing leaders aral and
shell maintained their leading position, despite a decrease in the number of stations over the last
few years in their networks. the biggest premium station networks in the german market also
started to operate in the economy segment, this increased market competition. the main
competitors of the star network, managed by orlen deutschland, invested significant resources
to modernize their stations, thus significantly improving their visualization and technical standard
and expanding their range of non-fuel products. today, more and more economy segment
stations exceed the standard of premium stations.

on the lithuanian market the leading position was maintained by lukoil, which was acquired in
the first quarter of 2016 by amic energy management from austria. however, over the next few
years these stations will operate under the current brand.


                                                 54

in lithuania the company couche-tard began to introduce its own brand (circle-k) in statoil
stations acquired in 2012. all networks operating in the lithuanian market focused on the
development of gastronomy. in 2016 the level of retail prices on the lithuanian market was
strongly influenced by an increase in activity on the wholesale market of the finnish concern
neste

iii. market trends in the upstream sector
according to the world energy outlook 2016 by the international energy agency (iea), the
energy intensity of the polish economy in 2015 decreased by (1.8)% as a result of a further
improvement in energy efficiency and from the increased use of cleaner energy sources,
including mainly renewable sources, which are going to record their fastest increase yet until
2040.

the increase in global demand for primary energy by about 30% by 2040 in the international
energy agency’s (iea) main scenario (new policies scenario) means that the use of all fuels will
grow.

among fossil fuels, natural gas will have recorded the biggest increase in consumption by 2040,
by nearly 50%, while the consumption of crude oil will increase by around 12% by 2040.

as the downward trend with regard to energy demand in oecd countries continues to be
observed, energy consumption is going to move towards regions where earnings are growing,
where access to energy sources is more extensive, and where urban development is booming:
india, southeast asia, china, as well as parts of africa, latin america, and the middle east.
according to the iea’s main scenario, energy demand in oecd countries in the years 2014–2040
is going to decrease by (0.1)% on average each year, while the economies of non-oecd countries
will generate an increase in energy consumption by 1.6% annually.

global demand for primary energy by fuel type and scenario [million toe1]:




                                                55

                                                                    new policiesscenario



     source                            2000            2013              2020             2040


     coal                             2 316            3 926            4 033             4 414


     oil                              3 669            4 266            4 461             4 735


     gas                              2 071            2 893            3 178             4 239


     nuclear                            676              662              831             1 201


     hydro                              225              335              383               531


     bioenergy                        1 026            1 421            1 541             1 878


     other renewables                    59              181              316               936



     total                           10 042          13 684            14 743            17 934



1)
     toe – ton of oil equivalent
source: iea

the biggest increase in total demand for crude oil in the iea’s main scenario by 2040 will have
been recorded by india, which will translate into an average annual growth rate (cagr) of 3.8%.
china, on the other hand, with the second largest rate of growth of total crude oil consumption,
will beat the usa already at the start of the 2030–2040 decade, becoming the largest consumer
of crude oil in the world. daily crude oil consumption in china in 2040 will reach 15.1 mmboe/d,
while the usa will use 13.1 mmboe/d and india: 9.9 mmboe/d.

changes in crude oil demand [mmboe/d] – cagr1:




                                               56

1)
     cagr - cumulative annual growth rate

in the period 2015–2016, due to the decreasing prices of crude oil and natural gas, as well as to
limited access to financing, the vast majority of exploration and production companies worldwide
decided to limit the scope of the work carried out and to focus their activity on projects at an
advanced stage of development of deposits, as well as on the exploration projects with the
brightest prospects.

in the crude oil supply area, a return to active market management by opec is predicted, the
first symptom of which was the formal meeting of opec countries in november 2016. adecision
was made to reduce crude oil production in the first half of 2017 and that producers from outside
opec would join the agreement, including russia. in total, 24 leading international crude oil
producers undertook to reduce the oil supply by 1.8 mmboe/d, which was necessary according to
opec estimates to balance out the oil market which has been struggling with oversupply.

the improvement in the financial standing of companies from the upstream industry was also
accompanied by more intense activity on the m&a market which was particularly noticeable in
the usa, where the consolidation of license areas took place, with particular rapidity.

according to the basic scenario of the international energy agency, natural gas consumption is
going to grow until 2040 virtually in each of the leading consumer countries, apart from japan
and russia. china will account for the biggest increase in demand for natural gas in the iea’s
basic scenario until 2040, with cagr at the level of 4.6%, but india is going to be the country
with the highest growth rate, at an average annual level of 5.2%. the usa will continue to be the
largest consumer of natural gas in the world, with natural gas consumption at a level of
840 billion m3 in 2040. at the same time, natural gas consumption in china will amount to
605 billion m3, and in india it will have reached 189 billion m3. in the middle east, which is the
second largest area for natural gas consumption growth, the figure will be around 804 billion m3.

changes in natural gas consumption – cagr [bcm1]:




                                                57

1)
     bcm – billion cubic meters
source: iea

in the global gas market, the increasing share of lng supply will be visible, the market share is
supposed to double by 2040 according to the iea’s forecasts. the current oversupply of gas and
the construction of more lng terminals which is in progress, mainly in the usa and australia,
where the new processing capacities amounted to nearly 130 billion m3 annually, has lead to
uncertainty as to when demand and supply on the gas market will reach an equilibrium.
according to the iea’s forecasts, the usa and australia will account for 2/3 of the total gas
production increase until 2020, but between the start of the 2020–2030 decade and 2040,
significant increases in the gas supply will be generated by a larger group of producers, with east
africa and argentina becoming more important players in the market.




                                                58

regulatory environment
the orlen group operates in regulated markets, so
regulatory compliance is a key aspect of its business.
under its regulatory risk management policy, pkn orlen and the other orlen group companies
engage in a fully transparent and open dialogue based on applicable laws, which involves
reviewing drafts of legislative solutions at a national and eu legislation level.



poland:




            1. biofuels

directive 2009/28/ec of the european parliament and of the council of april 23rd 2009 on the
promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and amending and subsequently
repealing directives 2001/77/ec and 2003/30/ec requires the member states to ensure a 10%
share of renewable energy in the overall energy consumption of the transport sector by 2020.
the directive was implemented into polish law by the act on biocomponents and liquid biofuels
of august 25th 2006 (subsequently amended). the act imposes the requirement for domestic
refineries and fuel importers to achieve the national indicative target, i.e. ensure the required
minimum share of renewable fuels (biocomponents) in the total volume of liquid fuels.

in 2016, pkn orlen took part in consultations of the draft biofuel regulations. the company
proposed:

1) reduction of the nit

2) introduction of a mandatory requirement to blend biocomponents into liquid fuels

3) adoption of measures preventing fraud related to the nit requirement in poland.

based on the act amending the energy law and certain other acts of november 30th 2016, the
nit was reduced relative to the levels defined in the 2013 regulation of the polish council of
ministers from 7.8% to 7.1% in 2017 and from 8.5% to 7.5% in 2018. the fact that the nit


                                                59

reduction factor in 2017 will be 0.82 if the share of biocomponents sourced from domestic
producction is 70% means that the actual nit for pkn orlen in 2017 (5.822%) will be the lowest
since 2012. in addition, the act amending the energy law and certain other acts of july 22nd
2016 introduced a requirement that as of 2017 at least 50% of the nit was to be achieved by
blending bio-components into liquid petroleum fuels (mandatory blending). at the same time, the
act expanded the definition of an entity obligated to achieve the nit so that it covers all entities
importing liquid fuels to poland, regardless of whether they operate on the basis of a relevant
licence or not.

            2. retail sales tax

the act on retail sales tax of july 6th 2016, which came into force on september 1st 2016,
introduced a tax on retail sales to consumers. the tax base is the amount of net revenue from
retail sales in excess of the tax-exempt amount (pln 17m per month). the tax rates are: 0.8% of
the tax base up to pln 170m and 1.4% of the excess over pln 170m. the costs for pkn orlen
were estimated at pln 18.5m per month, or approximately pln 222m annually (the estimate did
not account for the exclusion of retail sales to businesses due to an inability to extract such
data).

in connection with the european commission’s decision of september 19th 2016, which includes
the requirement to suspend any illegal state aid until the commission decides on the
compatibility of the aid with the internal market, on october 18th 2016 the minister of finance
and development issued a regulation on refraining from the collection of the retail sales tax. the
regulation entered into force on october 19th 2016; the retail sales tax will not be collected on
revenue earned from september 1st 2016 to december 31st 2016. then, the act amending the
act on retail sales tax of november 15th 2016 introduced a provision whereby the act on retail
sales tax would apply to revenue from retail sales generated as of january 1st 2018.

            3. combating the grey market

in 2016, pkn orlen took part in public consultations of draft amendments to tax and
administrative regulations aimed at combating the grey market in liquid fuels, in particular vat
fraud and avoidance of administrative obligations related to the supply of liquid fuels on the
market.

the act amending the value added tax act and certain other acts (the fuel package) of july 7th
2016 and the act amending the energy law and certain other acts (the energy package) of july
22nd 2016 introduced a number of fundamental changes to the regulation of the liquid fuel
market in poland, including new rules for accounting for vat on imports of liquid fuels to poland
and a close link between tax requirements and licence requirements in poland. its provisions,
which will be fully implemented in 2017, should lead to a determination of the actual number of
entities operating in the market, thereby creating an inventory of liquid fuels infrastructure, and
sustainably minimising the illegal supply of liquid fuels on the market.

            4. gas market liberalisation

throughout 2016, pkn orlen continued public dialogue as part of the process of gas market
liberalisation in poland, concerning waiver of the requirement to obtain president of the energy
regulatory office’s approval of tariffs for gas sold to business customers and households. the act


                                                 60

amending the energy law and certain other acts of november 30th 2016 provides for
a timetable for the deregulation of gas prices in poland, according to which the liberalisation of
gas prices for industrial consumers is to take effect on october 1st 2017, and for households − on
january 1st 2024.

            5. energy efficiency

to effectively fulfil its strategic objectives, pkn orlen strives to improve energy efficiency, which
is essential for an energy-efficient economic model. with this approach, the company actively
participated in the legislative work for a new law on energy efficiency, which entered into force
on october 1st 2016. the energy audit mechanism put in place at pkn orlen will improve the
company’s financial performance by optimising energy consumption while contributing to
a reduction in the environmental impact of its activities. the company is optimistic about the
possibility of reducing the costs of its electricity and natural gas purchases based on completed
efficiency improvement projects on assets covered by the co2 emissions trading system, and of
having heat and natural gas classified as a form of final energy, with savings of this energy
achieved through efficiency improvement projects to be applied towards the fulfilment of an
efficiency-related obligation. this would enable the company to fulfil the obligation to achieve
annual savings of final energy equal to 1.5% of the annual energy sales to end users, and to
reduce the cost of purchasing natural gas.

            6. energy certificates

after a three-year investigation process, the european commission issued a decision approving
the certificate-based support system for high-efficiency cogeneration. the european commission
found the national support system to be in line with eu regulations on state aid, declaring that it
complies with the goals of the eu climate and energy policy and contributes to more efficient
energy production. the scheme is planned to be implemented until 2018. the decision confirms
that the support obtained by pkn orlen in previous years in connection with electricity
generation by its chp plant in płock was compatible with eu state aid rules and provides grounds
for obtaining further support for cogeneration installations.

            7. energy-intensive companies

in 2016, the european commission decided that no objections would be raised against the
measure reducing res-related burdens for energy-intensive undertakings, recognising its
compatibility with the internal market under article 107 paragraph 3, letter c) of the treaty on
the functioning of the european union. the reduction of the costs of the support system for
renewable energy sources and excise duty on electricity will contribute to the higher
competitiveness of the company’s products.



czech republic:

the key bodies in unipetrol´s regulatory environment in the czech republic are:

      ministry of industry and trade,
      ministry of the environment,
      ministry of finance,


                                                 61

     office for the protection of competition,
     energy regulatory office,
     customs administration,
     environmental inspection,
     commercial inspection.

key legislation having influence on unipetrol´s business on the czech market:

     act on fuels and fuel stations n. 311/2006 coll,
     excise duty act n. 353/2003 coll,
     act on vat n. 235/2004 coll,
     act on business conditions and state administration in energy sectors and amending
     certain laws (energy act) n. 458/2000 coll,
     act on renewable sources of energy n. 165/2012 coll,
     act on stabilization of public budgets (energy tax) n. 261/2007 coll. – coal, cng tax,
     air protection act n. 201/2012 coll. – bio-duty,
     government notice on the criteria of sustainability of biofuels n. 351/2012 coll,
     act on area planning and building code (building act) n. 183/2006 coll,
     water act and amending certain laws n. 254/2001 coll,
     waste act n. 185/2001 coll,
     act on integrity pollution prevention and control n. 76/2002 coll,
     accidents prevention act n. 224/2015 coll,
     environmental impact assessment act n. 100/2001 coll,
     labour code n. 262/2006 coll,
     civil code n. 89/2013 coll,
     business corporations act n. 90/2013 coll.



germany:

regulatory environment of germany’s orlen deutschland:

     private/civil law – regulations concerning the relationships of individuals e.g. general civil
     law commercial law, company law, the right of intellectual property and competition law.
     public law – regulations concerning the relationship of individuals to the public authorities
     e.g. constitutional law, administrative law, tax law.
     criminal law as an independent part of public law is mainly regulated in the criminal code.
     procedural law is also an independent part of public law and deals with the judicial process
     to decide contentious legal relationships.

orlen deutschland is subject to the following laws and regulations:

     sales of fuel: the main regulations from areas no.1 (e.g. commercial law, company law,
     general civil law, competition law) and no. 2. (e.g. construction/building law, pollution
     control law, waste law, german water act, soil conservation law, conservation law, laws on
     transport of dangerous goods, laws governing industrial safety, environmental and
     consumer protection).
     non-fuel products / gastronomy: the main regulations are from areas no.1 (e.g.
     commercial law, company law, general civil law, competition law) and no. 2. (e.g. food law,

                                                 62

      etc.).

there are various main important local authorities and institutions, e.g. municipal administration
(including building authorities, water management authorities, waste management authorities,
etc.), state authorities (including the data protection and security authority, etc.), and federal
authorities (including federal cartel office, etc.).



lithuania:

lithuania’s orlen lietuva’s regulatory environment:

      ministry of energy,
      ministry of transport,
      ministry of the environment,
      ministry of finance,
      regulations governing energy producers,
      regulations on licensing trade in fuels,
      regulations on biofuels, fuel blending and fuel quality,
      regulations on mandatory stocks and fuel reserves,
      regulacje dotyczące mechanizmów wnoszenia opłat i podatków w handlu paliwami.



canada:

canadian oil and gas acts, regulations, and regulators

canadian companies operating in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to extensive
regulation and control of operations (including land tenure, exploration, development, production,
refining and upgrading, transportation, and marketing) as a result of legislation enacted by
various levels of government with respect to the pricing and taxation of oil and natural gas
through agreements among the governments of canada, alberta, british columbia,
saskatchewan, and new brunswick all of which should be carefully considered by investors in the
oil and gas industry. all current legislation is a matter of public record and the corporation is
unable to predict what additional legislation or amendments may be enacted. outlined below are
some of the principal aspects of legislation, regulations and agreements governing the oil and
gas industry both federally and in the provinces the corporation operates in.

provincial acts, regulations, and regulators

alberta acts and regulations

mines and minerals act — governs the management and disposition of rights in crown owned
mines and minerals, including the levying and collecting of bonuses, rent and royalties.

important regulations include:

      deep oil exploratory well regulation
      drilling royalty credit regulation
      enhanced oil recovery royalty regulation

                                                63

      enhanced recovery of oil royalty reduction regulation
      new well royalty reduction regulation
      new well royalty regulation
      petroleum marketing regulation
      petroleum royalty regulation, 2009

responsible energy development act — establishes the alberta energy regulator (aer), and sets
out its mandate, structure, powers, duties and functions.

coal conservation act and coal conservation rules — govern the appraisal, development, and
conservation of alberta's coal assets.

gas resources preservation act — governs the removal of gas or propane from alberta.

oil and gas conservation act — governs the conservation and development of oil and gas
resources in alberta, including legislating safe and efficient practices for locating and developing
resources and controlling pollution. important rules and regulations include:

      oil and gas conservation rules
      orphan fund delegated administration regulation

oil sands conservation act — governs the conservation and development of oil sands resources
in alberta to ensure the orderly, efficient, and economical development of the resource in the
public interest. important rules and regulations include:

      oil sands conservation rules

pipeline act — governs the development and operation of pipelines within alberta. important
rules and regulations include:

      pipeline rules

environmental protection and enhancement act — governs the protection, enhancement and
wise use of the environment by designating proposed activities for which an approval or
registration is required. important rules and regulations include:

      environmental assessment regulation

water act — supports and promotes the conservation and management of water, including the
wise allocation of water, while recognizing, among other things, the need for alberta's economic
growth and prosperity. important rules and regulations include:

      water (ministerial) regulation
      water (offences and penalties) regulation

public lands act — governs the use of public land in conjunction with the responsible energy
development act. important rules and regulations include:

      exploration regulation
      public lands administration regulation

alberta regulators

                                                 64

alberta energy (ministry) — manages the development of alberta's non-renewable resources,
grants industry the right to explore and develop, and seeks to assure sustained prosperity
through the stewardship of energy and mineral resource systems, responsible development, and
wise use of energy.

alberta energy regulator — is responsible for regulating the life cycle of oil, oil sands, natural
gas, and coal projects in alberta from application and construction to production, abandonment,
and reclamation. also conducts environmental assessments.

natural resources conservation board — is responsible for reviews of proposed major natural
resource projects, and for the regulation of confined feeding operations in alberta. as a decision
maker, it strives to exemplify integrity and foresight in the best interests of alberta.

surface rights board — is a quasi-judicial tribunal that grants right of entry and assists
landowners/occupants and operators resolve disputes about compensation when operators
require access to private land or occupied crown land to develop subsurface resources such as
oil, gas, and coal or to build and operate pipelines and power transmission lines.

new brunswick acts and regulations

oil and natural gas act — governs oil and natural gas leases, exploration, and development new
brunswick. important regulations include:

      survey system regulation
      geophysical exploration regulation
      license to search and lease regulation

petroleum act — not yet in force: will replace the oil and natural gas act.

clean environment act — governs environmental impact assessments conducted in new
brunswick which assess environmental impacts from proposed projects. important regulations
include:

      environmental impact assessment regulation

new brunswick regulators

department of energy and mines — has regulatory oversight over oil and natural gas land tenure,
exploration, drilling and production, and well abandonment.

department of environment and local government — implements a review and approval process
to regulate and manage the environmental and social aspects of the construction, operation, and
decommissioning of oil and natural gas projects and facilities.

british columbia acts and regulations

petroleum and natural gas act — governs the management and disposition of rights in crown
owned mines and minerals, including the levying and collecting of bonuses, rental and royalties.
important regulations include:

      petroleum and natural gas drilling license regulation


                                                65

      petroleum and natural gas grid regulation
      petroleum and natural gas act fee, rental and work requirement regulation

oil and gas activities act — governs the conduct of oil and gas operations including exploration,
development, and consultation. important regulations include:

      consultation and notification regulation
      drilling and production regulation
      environmental protection and management regulation
      oil and gas activities act general regulation

environmental management act — uses modern environmental management tools to protect
human health and the quality of water, land and air in british columbia.

british columbia regulators

ministry of natural gas development — is responsible for managing the land tenure system and
oil and gas leases in british columbia.

oil and gas commission — is an independent, single-window regulatory agency with
responsibilities for overseeing oil and gas operations in british columbia, including exploration,
development, pipeline transportation and reclamation.

surface rights board — assists in resolving disputes between landowners and companies that
require access to private land to explore for, develop, or produce crown-owned subsurface
resources such as oil, gas, coal, minerals and geothermal.

saskatchewan acts and regulations

the oil and gas conservation act—governs the orderly exploration for, and development of, oil
and gas in saskatchewan and optimizes the recovery of these resources. important regulations
include:

      the oil and gas conservation regulations, 2012
      the petroleum registry and electronic documents regulation

the crown minerals act—governs the leasing of crown mineral rights and provides authority for
the crown to collect royalties. important regulations include:

      the crown oil and gas royalty regulations, 2012

the environmental assessment act — establishes a system to ensure that development proceeds
with adequate environmental safeguards through the integrated assessment of environmental
impacts.

the environmental management and protection act, 2010 — regulates and controls potentially
harmful activities and substances.

saskatchewan regulators

ministry of economy — governs the exploration, development, management, and conservation of
non-renewable resources. this includes granting leases and operations permits.

                                                 66

ministry of environment — provides science-based solutions, compliance and mitigation
measures aimed at protecting the environment, safeguarding communities, and helping to
ensure balanced economic growth. it accomplishes this through environmental assessments,
management of industrial sites, and compliance activities.

federal acts, regulations, and regulators

acts and regulations

canada oil and gas operations act — governs the exploration, production, processing, and
transportation of oil and gas in marine areas controlled by the federal government. the acts
regulations address drilling and production, geophysical operations, installations, financial
requirements, operations, and spills and debris liability.

the canada petroleum resources act — governs the lease of federally owned oil and gas rights
on "frontier lands" to oil and gas companies that wish to find and produce the oil and gas. the
acts regulations cover royalties, registrations, and research funding.

canadian environmental assessment act — governs the environmental assessment of proposed
projects where the federal government is the proponent or where the project involves federal
funding, permits, or licensing.

regulators

national energy board — oversees the international and inter-provincial aspects of the oil, gas,
and electric utility industries. it regulates the construction and operation of oil and natural gas
pipelines that cross international or provincial borders.

natural resources canada — is the federal ministry of natural resources. it develops policies and
programs that enhance the contribution of the natural resource sector to the economy. it seeks
to enhance the responsible development and use of canada's natural resources and the
competitiveness of canada's natural resources products.

canadian environmental assessment agency — is responsible for conducting environmental
assessments under the canadian environmental assessment act




                                                 67

suppliers and customers
suppliers
in 2015−2016, the rules of cooperation with suppliers
changed, with the administrative and support function
gaining a proactive and business-minded role.




to achieve our strategic objectives we are chiefly focused on implementing a method of
comprehensive management of procurement categories, a supplier management model (its
elements include segmentation, classification, management rules) and global procurement
standards.




the procurement categories in the central category tree form an orderly and extensive
procurement directory at pkn orlen and the key companies of the orlen group. the central
category tree has three levels of detail. the first level comprises 12 main categories. the second



                                                68

and third level are detailed category levels, corresponding to various product and service groups
for a wide range of business needs.

in a significant step towards ensuring sustainable development and responsible supply chain,
pkn orlen incorporated the responsible business and sustainable growth criteria in its
procurement management standard. the company promotes social responsibility among its
suppliers and seeks to cooperate with trade partners that respect human rights and operate in
compliance with the law, ensure safe and fair working conditions, follow the best standards of
ethical conduct and care for the environment. csr criteria have been defined and compiled into
a single document entitled 'supplier code of conduct'. as of april 2016, compliance with the code
is mandatory in the process of trade partner qualification.

more than 16,000 procurement processes were carried out at the orlen group in 2016.
we worked with over 3,500 suppliers. in most cases, our trading relationships with suppliers are
long-term to ensure that the requirements of the orlen group are satisfied in a reliable manner.
suppliers provide raw materials and services necessary for the orlen group to run its
operations. our purchases are related to investments, production and maintenance projects;
we purchase electricity, biocomponents, supplies for service stations, production chemicals, and
general-purpose supplies (administration, it, professional services, logistics). in 2016,
we purchased goods and services in more than 500 procurement categories.

customers
the orlen group sells its products and services to
customers in over 80 countries across 5 continents. the
orlen client base includes both private customers
(such as motorists) and institutional clients
representing virtually all industries – including the
chemical, automotive, aviation, power, construction,
packaging, agricultural, and food production sectors.




we reach private customers mainly through service station networks spanning across poland, the
czech republic, germany and lithuania. customers can rest assured that all our products meet
exacting quality standards. as a result of substantial investments in our production faculties,
unleaded petrol and diesel fuels produced by orlen group refineries fully satisfy all european
standards, and even exceed them with respect to some parameters. we were also poland’s first
producer to protect its products against microbiological contamination.


                                               69

in terms of company size, our institutional client base is highly diversified – from small local
companies up to poland’s and the world’s largest corporations.

our petrochemical products (including benzene, ethylene, and pta) serve as the basis for the
manufacture of other products and delivery of services we use in our everyday lives. we produce
fuels for road vehicles, aircraft, ships and power plants, as well as lubricants, bitumens, and
a whole range of other basic organic substances used to make plastics, pharmaceuticals, and
virtually all other chemicals. heavy fuel oil is burned in central heating boilers, steam generators
and industrial furnaces, but it is also used in industrial processes. with our portfolio of aviation
fuels, we provide fuel services for all aircraft types. in poland, we are one of the largest producers
and marketers of bitumens, which are sold to companies and building groups engaged in road
construction projects, and to producers of bitumen-based products used in the construction
industry (such as roof coverings, roofing papers, or thermal insulation products).

orlen paliwa, one of poland's largest sales organisations, offers a broad range of fuel products,
including petrol (pb95, pb98), diesel oil, heating oil (ekoterm plus), propane, butane and propane-
butane mixtures (lpg). the fuels offered are of the highest quality, fully satisfy eu standards, and
even exceed them with respect to some of the parameters. they are also environmentally
friendly. the chemical composition of petrol, diesel oil and heating oil is based on leading-edge
global research. gas products are compliant with polish standard pn c-96008 and european
standard en-589, as attested by quality certificates. orlen paliwa holds a licence to trade in
environmentally friendly electricity, which it offers to small and medium-sized enterprises. the
company also builds industrial liquid gas installations used not only for heating purposes but also
in various technological processes, e.g. in the bakery and confectionery industries, in meat
production and processing, in other food production, in the manufacture of ceramics and glass,
metalworking, at dryers, laundries, in the construction industry and road engineering.

anwil is a leading manufacturer of nitrogen fertilizers (ammonium nitrate and calcium
ammonium nitrate, marketed under the canwil brand), ranking second in poland and tenth in
europe. the company is also poland's only and europe's eighth manufacturer of suspension
polyvinyl chloride (polanvil), a material used for the production of building profiles, water and
sewage piping, wire and electrical cable insulation and coating, as well as small scale medical
equipment. almost half of polanvil volumes are sold to demanding eu markets.
anwil also offers pvc plates and cable compounds, pvc-based blends, and rigid technical pvc
compounds e.g. for the production of wall panels, building profiles and electro-installation
profiles.

anwil is the largest producer of sodium hydroxide (marketed mainly as caustic soda solution)
and prilled caustic soda in poland. sodium hydroxide is one of the primary chemicals used in
virtually all industries, both as a feedstock in various types of organic and inorganic synthesis,
and as an auxiliary material, e.g. in the aluminium, cellulose and paper, textile and viscose
industries, but also in the processing of crude oil and treatment of water for industrial
applications.

the company also offers other chloralkali (chlorine, sodium hypochlorite, sodium chloride and
hydrochloric acid) and chemicals (ammonia, ammonia water, liquid nitrogen and liquid oxygen).
anwil sells its impressive range of products to almost 40 countries across the globe, including to
germany, uk, france, scandinavia, algeria, and turkey.



                                                  70

inowrocławskie kopalnie soli solino s.a. is poland's largest producer of brine and the only
supplier of the product to the chemical industry in the region. brine is manufactured made in two
salt mines − in góra near inowrocław and przyjma near mogilno. from both locations, the product
is delivered to customers via pipelines − from the mine in przyjma to the production plant in
janikowo (ciech group), and from the mine in góra to anwil and to a production plant of the
ciech group in inowrocław. the company has long-term contracts with these customers. small
volumes are also delivered by road tankers.

solino's portfolio includes salt products as well. its granulated salt is used in dishwashers. the
company produces table salt, curing salt for the meat industry, feed salt used in the manufacture
of fodder and compound animal feed, and industrial salt used as an ingredient in washing
powders, dishwashing liquids, soap and detergents, as well as road salt for winter road
maintenance.

orlen południe is a key player in poland’s biofuels and biocomponents market. it offers
biocomponents which can be blended with traditional diesel oils or used as a standalone fuel. the
company’s portfolio features a broad range of products for households, public buildings, small
and medium-sized enterprises, as well as specialist installations and industrial facilities.

the portfolio of the orlen group also includes a broad range of services, such as transport
services, maintenance of service stations and fuel depots, repairs of various types of machinery,
environmental protection, health and safety and fire prevention services.




                                                71

social environment
from its inception, pkn orlen has engaged in external
initiatives promoting sustainable development.




in december 2003, pkn orlen joined global compact, an initiative proposed by united nations
secretary general kofi annan. we declared that we would work to advance the organisation’s
principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment, and anti-corruption
efforts.

in 2016, the orlen group took steps to implement the united nations’sustainable development
goals at its companies and in the broader energy sector. the sustainable development goals,
launched by the un in 2015, build on the millennium development goals. the 17 goals and
169 targets cover a spectrum of problems to be solved with significant support from socially
responsible businesses.

another project that we participate in is responsible care. this global initiative brings together
chemical manufacturing companies to improve their health, safety and environment performance
(the so called hse triad), as well as to share information about their activities. pkn orlen has
participated in responsible care since 1997, when the programme was adopted by the
company’s legal predecessor. later, anwil, inowrocławskie kopalnie soli solino, and basell orlen
polyolefins, of the orlen group, joined in, committing themselves to reducing their
environmental footprint and improving safety and health conditions for their employees and local


                                               72

communities. in 2007, pkn orlen signed the ‘declaration of support for the responsible care
global charter’. this initiative of the international council of chemical associations (icca) is
a form of voluntary self-regulation of the chemical industry aiming to foster environmental
protection and the health and safety of people all over the world. it also defines ways of
responding to challenges related to sustainable development and proper management of
chemicals, while calling for increased transparency in the chemical industry. the ‘responsible
care global charter’ was revised in 2015. the new version focuses on the role and responsibility
of global chemical manufacturers and their part in the development of responsible care.

given the global and consumer trends, csr strategies must not only respond to the current
challenges but also anticipate them. one such proactive initiative was the signing of the
‘declaration on sustainable development in the energy sector’ by energy companies. pkn orlen
adopted the declaration in 2010. the signatories acknowledge that “...the joint efforts should
focus on following and promoting the concept of sustainable development”. such initiatives by
energy companies help to create shared value and contribute to solving important social
problems.

another milestone event was pkn orlen’s signing of the ‘declaration of polish business for
sustainable development‘ in 2014. by doing so, the company joined the group of
companies which support the ‘vision of sustainable development of polish business until 2050‘.
the document draws on the international initiative of the world business council for sustainable
development. the project brings together polish businesses to deliver sustainable development
and defines the key challenges and priorities in which enterprises are expected to support social
and economic changes. since 2015, pkn orlen and orlen eco have been active members of
the sustainable development committee at the polish chamber of the chemical industry. during
the 2015 polish chemical industry congress, pkn orlen signed the ‘declaration of support for
the sustainable development concept in chemical industry’. in the document, the signatories
wrote: “awareness of the role the chemical industry plays in modern economies and the effect it
has on the development of other industries, we want to ensure that our actions and initiatives
actively support the delivery of sustainable development.”

płock industry and technology park (pppt)

the mission of the płock industry and technology park is to create and consistently develop
a business centre that would earn recognition in europe and − relying on industry and new
technologies − would offer its tenants favourable conditions for doing business. the park was set
up on the initiative of the city of płock and pkn orlen. the relevant agreement was signed in
2003 and the company to manage the park was established two years later. the park was set up
on the initiative of the city of płock and pkn orlen. the relevant agreement was signed in
2003 and the company responsible for managing the park was established two years later. it is
where businesses create and support economic processes based on innovative projects and r&d
programmes.

partnership relationships with ngos

pkn orlen and the orlen group actively support the third sector. particularly noteworthy is the
cross-sectoral partnership programme joined by two organisations which play a major role in
stimulating activity among the local communities of płock and ostrów wielkopolski and their
vicinity. the partnership’s goal is to improve the quality of life in the areas where pkn orlen


                                               73

operates. it is addressed mainly towards local ngos that run innovative projects for local
communities. the grant fund for płock foundation was a pioneer initiative in poland. it was
launched by the płock municipal authorities, pkn orlen and basell orlen polyolefins. with
support from its founders, it engages in a variety of activities to improve the quality of life in
płock. the foundation provides financial support to associations, clubs and foundations that help
people living in płock in various aspects of their lives – from sports to social care and culture. in
2014, it launched a competition for informal groups and individuals, and a year earlier it adopted
a new streetworking methodology for its work with children.

the good neighbourhood grant fund for the ostrów wielkopolski association has similar goals. it
was established in 2006 after the grant fund set up by the municipality of ostrów wielkopolski,
pkn orlen and undp in 2004 was transformed into an association. the association members are
the town of ostrów wielkopolski, the municipality and town of odolanów, and the municipality of
ostrów wielkopolski. their main objective is to work together with local ngos on interesting
initiatives in the areas of culture, art, national heritage, science, education, health protection,
social welfare, social problems, sport and physical culture. pkn orlen is the main benefactor of
the association. both of these programmes are addressed at local ngos, social activists, local
communities, customers, suppliers and subcontractors, as well as medical, cultural, educational
and social care institutions.

pkn orlen is also one of the founders of the ignacy łukasiewicz museum of oil and gas industry
foundation in bóbrka. the museum is an exceptional place in poland, as it documents the history
of the polish oil and gas industry. the goal of the foundation is to support, develop and promote
the museum, protect historical objects, increase the number of exhibits, and protect cultural
heritage. the museum is the only such institution located in a working oil extraction facility.
among its attractions are oil wells that date back to the 19th century and are still in use. the
foundation provides platforms for the exchange of information and experience between
individuals and institutions that want to protect instruments, equipment and documents used by
the oil and gas industry. all this activity is part of the wider duty of care for national heritage,
culture and protection of poland’s historical objects.

in 2015, pkn orlen became one of the sponsors of the polish national foundation, whose goals
include the promotion and protection of poland’s economy and image.

fair trade

since 2008, stop cafes and stop cafe bistros have been selling fair trade coffee only. the fair
trade system of certification and labelling is used for products made in accordance with the
principles of fair trade. fair trade is a social movement that uses the market approach to help
producers in developing countries and to promote sustainability. in addition to better prices,
producers are offered support from their trading partners to operate in a manner that is
sustainable and safe for people and the environment, and that benefits the democratic
development of their communities. the movement is supported and promoted by a wide range of
social organisations and businesses, which support and lobby for greater equality in sharing the
profits generated by international trade. advocating a sustainable lifestyle and raising consumer
awareness lie at the core of the fair trade concept.

assistance system for the transport of hazardous materials (spot)



                                                 74

the orlen group plays an extremely important role in the assistance system for the transport
of hazardous materials, which helps to ameliorate theremove consequences of accidents
involving chemical substances and is vital for overall safety. it relies on a network of properly
equipped regional facilities. the national spot centre is part of pkn orlen’s company fire
service in płock and offers level 1 assistance by providing information over the telephone and on
their website. the system also covers orlen paliwa, orlen południe and anwil. its ultimate
goal is to limit the consequences of accidents in the transport of hazardous materials by
supporting the operations of the national fire service and other rescue services across poland.

organisations and associations
pkn orlen’s representatives actively participate in a number of various associations and
organisations. membership of these bodies is a vital component of pkn orlen’s presence in the
polish and european economic and social arena.

being part of these organisations and associations, pkn orlen has access to knowledge and
information about draft regulations for the refining and petrochemical industries in poland and
europe, and can also easily learn about the technical solutions and findings of research carried
out in other countries, and has an opportunity to share its knowledge and gain new experience.
through these organisations, in particular those that bring together employers or promote csr
ideas, pkn orlen builds stable relationships with its environment.

organisations and associations of which pkn
orlen was a member in 2016
 • european energy forum                          • polski komitet światowej rady energetycznej
 • european petroleum refiners association        • polskie forum iso 9000
 (dawniej concawe)                                • polskie stowarzyszenie energetyki wiatrowej
 • european round table of industrialists (ert)   (psew)
 • forum odpowiedzialnego biznesu                 • polskie stowarzyszenie zarządzania kadrami
 • general contract of use for wagons (gcu        • polskie towarzystwo badaczy rynku i opinii
 bureau)                                          • polsko-niemiecka izba przemysłowo-handlowa
 • institute of professional representatives      • stowarzyszenie "wagony prywatne"
 before the european patent office (epo/epi)      • stowarzyszenie emitentów giełdowych
 • instytut audytorów wewnętrznych iia polska     • stowarzyszenie inżynierów i techników przemysłu
 • izba energetyki przemysłowej i odbiorców       chemicznego
 energii                                          • stowarzyszenie naukowo-techniczne inżynierów
 • konfederacja lewiatan                          i techników przemysłu naftowego i gazowniczego
 • nacs the association for convenience & fuel    (sitpnig)
 retailing                                        • stowarzyszenie płockich naftowców
 • pipc/chemeko - program odpowiedzialność        • stowarzyszenie polskich wynalazców
 i troska                                         i racjonalizatorów
 • polska izba inżynierów budownictwa             • stowarzyszenie współpracy przemysłu naftowego
 • polska izba przemysłu chemicznego              i samochodowego cec polska
 • polska organizacja przemysłu i handlu          • techbrainers r&d club
 naftowego                                        • the european petrochemical association (epca)
 • polska platforma technologiczna wodoru         • un global compact
 i ogniw paliwowych
 • polski komitet narodowy międzynarodowej
 izby handlowej (icc poland)
 • polski komitet normalizacyjny




                                                  75

selected organisations and associations of which other orlen group companies
were members in 2016:


 unipetrol:
 • asociace energetických manažerů - sdružení velkých spotřebitelů energie (association of
 energy managers – association of large energy consumers)
 • sdružení držitelů a provozovatelů železničních vozů (association of holders and operators of
 rail wagons)
 • svaz chemického průmyslu čr (association of chemical industry of the czech republic)
 • hospodářská komora (chamber of commerce)
 • svaz chemického průmyslu čr (association of chemical industry of the czech republic)
 • asociace výzkumných organizací (association of research organisations)
 • sdružení vodohospodářů čr oblastní sdružení severočeského kraje (association of water
 management of the czech republic area association of north bohemia region)
 • klub polského kapitálu v čr (club of polish capital in the czech republic)
 • české sdružení pro technická zařízení (czech association for technical equipment)
 • česká asociace čistících stanic (czech association of cleaning stations)
 • čappo (czech association of petroleum industry and trade, capo)
 • česká společnost pro údržbu (czech maintenance society)
 • česká strojnická společnost (odborná sekce tribotechnická) (czech mechanical engineering
 society (expert section tribotechnology)
 • česká společnost pro nedestruktivní testování (czech society for non-destructive testing)
 • česká společnost průmyslové chemie (czech society of industrial chemistry)
 • sdružení českých zkušeben a laboratoří (czech testing laboratories association)
 • čni - technická normalizační komise 131 - potrubní systémy z plastů (čni – technical
 standards commission 131 – plastic piping systems)
 • čni - technická normalizační komise 52 – plasty (čni – technical standards commission
 52 – plastics)
 • okresní hospodářská komora most (district chamber of commerce most)
 • euroregion krušnohoří (euroregion krušnohoří)
 • německá obchodní komora (german chamber of commerce – offenbach)
 • komora revizních techniků tlakových nádob stabilních (chamber of stable pressure vessel
 inspection technicians)
 • hospodářská a sociální rada mostecka (economic and social council most)
 • asociace pracovníků tlakových zařízení (pressure equipment workers association)
 • svaz dopravy čr (transport union of the czech republic)
 • česká společnost pro údržbu (czech maintenance society)


orlen upstream canada:

     canadian association of petroleum producers
     lochend industry producers group

orlen południe:

     krajowa izba biopaliw (the polish national chamber of biofuels)
     the association of european candle makers
     quality association for candles
     european wax federation
     the cracow chamber of commerce and industry




                                               76

our report
our approach to reporting
we present the orlen group’s annual report, prepared as an integrated report. this document
is our third integrated report, showing interactions and interrelations between the financial and
non-financial aspects of the orlen group’s operations. as such, this report provides
a comprehensive and coherent overview of the group’s activities, business model, strategy,
value creation process and financial performance from the point of view of our key stakeholders.
to successfully achieve this objective, we have structured the layout and content of the
document based on the international integrated reporting council (iirc) and global reporting
initiative (gri) guidelines. the report also reflects the latest directions in the eu legislation on
disclosure of non-financial and diversity information.

experience in reporting
reporting is a fixed and important part in the process of communicating information on the
orlen group’s activities. communication and dialogue with the environment play a vital role in
the orlen group’s csr strategy for 2015−2017. reports are issued on an annual basis and are
continuously evolving, to reflect changes within the orlen group and in its environment.

until 2014, we published annual reports and csr reports separately. since its inception, pkn
orlen has published 14 annual reports and 10 corporate social responsibility (csr) reports.
since 2008, we have produced our csr reports in line with the global reporting initiative
standards. until 2013, ecology and environmental reports were issued as separate publications.

in august 2015, pkn orlen published its first integrated report, covering 2014.




why integrate?
integration is a tenet of our approach to reporting, but it also underlies certain efforts made by
the orlen group to understand and meet the expectations of our stakeholders:

      integration through our business segments,
      integration means caring about the environment in the course of day-to-day production,
      logistics and distribution processes,
      integration means developing all initiatives which help our employees maintain a healthy
      work-life balance,
      integration means getting employees, customers, suppliers and local communities involved
      in building a strong market position and finding innovative solutions.

the integrated report, which has superseded the annual and crs reports published every year,


                                                 77

presents interactions and interrelations between the financial and non-financial aspects of the
orlen group’s activities. it reflects global standards and trends in corporate reporting, promoted
by organisations such as the international integrated reporting council (iirc). its guidelines,
published in 2011, encourage firms to abandon performance reporting based strictly on their
organisational structure in favour of a more dynamic and multidimensional approach to
communication with stakeholders. integrated reporting is a way of communicating and an
organisation’s communication tool which demonstrates how the organisation’s strategy,
corporate governance and performance, in the context of its environment, allow it to create value
in various time horizons.

“integrated thinking leads to integrated decision-making and actions that consider the creation of
value over the short, medium and long term.” (iirc framework).

our report’s new formula followed as a natural next step in adapting our reporting to market
tendencies and stakeholders’ expectations, permitting the stakeholders to better understand the
business model, strategies and risks, and to better identify business opportunities.

how we prepared the report
one of the cornerstones of our csr strategy is the objective of being perceived as a csr leader
by our stakeholders. to that end, we have committed to implementing a number of initiatives
and measures, including the adoption of integrated reporting. this report is the third such
publication, but the second one to cover the entire orlen group, and it is another step towards
improving the quality of our reporting.

integrated reporting is a new method for communicating our business model. preparation of an
integrated report includes performing analyses and collecting information which is of key
relevance to the orlen group and its stakeholders. as a result, a comprehensive integrated
report is compiled, which, among other things, provides information on how the business
strategy pursued by the group and its risk management system translate into the company’s
value creation over time, taking into account the company’s environmental impact. this
integrated report presents the activities of the orlen group in 2016, shows results and effects
of its operations, and the key aspects of the group’s financial and non-financial performance vital
to value creation.

no changes have been made in the previously reported information. no information presented in
previous reports has been corrected. furthermore, this integrated report has been externally
assured by bureau veritas, a reputable audit firm.

significant changes in the organisation's size, structure,
ownership, and supply chain during the reporting
period
the changes made in the orlen group’s structure were in pursuance of the strategy to focus on
core business and allocate the released capital to development of the business areas that offer
the greatest growth potential.

in the reporting period, a number of material changes were made, affecting the size, structure



                                                78

and ownership of the orlen group, including:




the organisational efforts undertaken in 2016 involved further work on the consolidation of
unipetrol group companies. starting from 2017, polymer institute brno, benzina, unipetrol
services, unipetrol rafinerie, chemopetrol and ceska rafinerska operate jointly as unipetrol rpa.
in 2016, unipetrol rpa, a member of the unipetrol group, executed an agreement to acquire all
shares in spolana, a former subsidiary of anwil. the acquisition will enable the unipetrol group to
more efficiently plan and optimise production and respond to changing external conditions.




in 2016, orlen upstream canada was merged with kicking horse energy inc., kck operating
company ltd., columbia natural resources canada, ltd. and kicking horse international
exploration ltd. to further optimise the upstream segment’s structure, orlen upstream sp.
z o.o. was merged with orlen upstream international b.v.




as part of consolidation of the orlen group’s service companies, in january 2016 orlen serwis,
orlen wir and wircom were merged. the final stage of the consolidation process was the
acquisition by pkn orlen of all shares in orlen serwis.




in 2016, pkn orlen closed the sale of all shares in orlen transport. the disposal of transport
assets, which are non-core assets, is in line with pkn orlen’s strategy to build pkn orlen’s
value in the long term.




in 2016, orlen laboratorium changed its legal form and began to operate under the name of
orlen laboratorium spółka akcyjna, abbreviated to orlen laboratorium s.a. the change was
part of the process designed to systematise the ownership structures of orlen group
companies.

deletion of companies from the national court register


                                                79

in 2016, the liquidation of pro-lab spółka z o.o., ekonaft sp. z o.o. and unipetrol austria hmbh
was completed.

no material changes occurred in the ownership structure of other orlen group companies.

reconstruction of the ethylene production plant in litvinov after an accident which occurred in
august 2015, and the emergency shutdown of the fluid catalytic cracking unit at the kralupy
refinery operated by the unipetrol group made it necessary to optimise production processes,
coordinate product flows within the orlen group, and purchase finished and semi-finished
products to mitigate the effect of the shutdown.

major changes in the feedstock supply chain in 2016 included execution of a new five-year
contract between pkn orlen and pgnig, valid until september 2021 and valued at more than
pln 7bn. the contract makes pgnig a strategic supplier of gas fuel to orlen group companies in
poland. the orlen group takes steps to ensure supply stability and to lower its natural gas
procurement costs, including by diversifying supply sources, centralising natural gas trading, and
improving trading expertise. structured in 2016, the new portfolio of gas supply contracts makes
it possible to implement optimisation measures covering different suppliers, various gas indices
and different supply locations.

as regards crude oil supplies, in 2016 the following long-term contracts were in force: with
rosnieft oil company and tatneft europe ag for oil supply through an oil pipeline to the płock
refinery, and with saudi arabian oil company for oil supply by sea. oil deliveries under the
contracts proceeded as planned and accounted for more than 70% of the supplied crude. oil was
also imported from kazakhstan, iran and azerbaijan. under separate agreements, pkn orlen
s.a. supplies oil to three orlen group refineries: in litvínov and kralupy in the czech republic,
and in mažeikiai in lithuania. the refinery in the czech republic received oil from russia, algeria,
saudi arabia, azerbaijan and kazakhstan, while the refinery in mažeikiai processed mainly
russian oil, with some volumes supplied from saudi arabia and kazakhstan.



definition of reporting aspects
we comply with the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) in our financial reporting,
and follow the global reporting initiative (g4) guidelines for non-financial reporting. in our work
on the integrated report, we applied the guidelines of the international integrated reporting
council. both the gri and iirc guidelines focus on the selection of the key reporting aspects that
are most relevant to a company’s operations, its impacts, and stakeholder expectations at
a given moment.

the global reporting initiative offers an international csr and sustainability reporting standard
for enterprises. it provides a consistent framework for reporting on sustainability aspects, which
is applied worldwide. the guidelines set the standards and define indicators which may be used
by corporations to measure and report their economic, environmental and social performance. in
2013, the gri published its most recent and comprehensive csr reporting guidelines − the g4,
which extended the scope of csr reporting in the area of stakeholders’ engagement in the
reporting process, and placed a greater emphasis on the role of the value chain and selection of
the most relevant information to be included in the report. in 2014, pkn orlen published its
‘corporate social responsibility report 2013. ten years of csr reporting‘, the company’s first

                                                 80

report prepared in keeping with the gri g4 guidelines.

according to the iirc, integrated reporting is a process that results in communication by an
organization, most visibly a periodic integrated report, about value creation over time. an
integrated report is a concise communication about how an organization’s strategy, governance,
performance and prospects, in the context of its external environment, lead to the creation of
value over the short, medium and long term (source: consultation draft of the international
framework, international integrated reporting council, april 2013).

pkn orlen also meets the requirements of directive 2014/95/eu as regards disclosure of non-
financial and diversity information by certain large undertakings and groups. the requirements
set forth in the directive were implemented into polish law under the accountancy act of
december 15th 2016. as of january 1st 2017, large public interest entities in poland are obliged
to prepare statements on environmental matters, social and employee-related aspects, respect
for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery issues. the new eu law is designed to enhance the
transparency, relevance and comparability of non-financial disclosures. the matters addressed in
the directive are also covered in the pkn orlen s.a.’s core values and standards of conduct.

the process of defining relevant reporting aspects at the orlen group included the following
activities:

     analysis of perception studies, media coverage of the orlen group and internal analyses,
     the purpose of which was to identify key economic, social and environmental aspects of the
     orlen group’s operations.
     the final list of relevant reporting aspects was prepared in consultation with pkn orlen’s
     management.
     next, various internal and external stakeholders were included in the process, among them
     employees of pkn orlen and of the orlen group companies representing various
     business areas, counterparties, trading partners and representatives of the firms
     we partner with as part of the responsible business forum. they were requested to fill in
     surveys designed to determine the relevance of the individual aspects to the orlen group
     or its environment.

the orlen group’s stakeholders, both internal and external, were engaged in the process of
structuring the contents of this report. just like in two previous years, they expressed their
opinions through surveys. internal stakeholders, that is orlen group employees, viewed all
economic, social and environmental aspects as highly relevant. external stakeholders considered
the following three aspects: macroeconomic impacts, professional development and employee
relations, and diversity and equal opportunities, as being of moderate relevance, and the other
aspects as important.

this multiple-step process of defining the relevant aspects led to developing the orlen group’s
relevance matrix.




                                               81

stakeholder map
as part of our work on this integrated report, we again reviewed the orlen group’s stakeholder
map. our analysis showed that the stakeholder base has been rather stable for many years.
internal consultations and the survey allowed us to identify those orlen group stakeholders who
at the next stage of the map review were classified as key or important stakeholders.
representatives of various areas of the orlen group’s business were involved in the review. as
a result of the review, a new stakeholder group was added – innovators and startups. the
following have been identified as key stakeholders: employees, shareholders, customers and the
state treasury.




                                              82

legend:
grey - important stakeholders
red - key stakeholders


our relations with the stakeholders are built on the principles of responsibility and dialogue. the
way to build those relations is defined in the pkn orlen’s ‘core values and standards of
conduct’, in which we declare that “we firmly believe that open and honest communication helps
foster good relations with stakeholders, thereby enhancing the company’s competitive
advantage and value.” we want our relations with trading partners to be founded on integrity,
transparency, mutual respect and professionalism. to ensure highest quality of stakeholder
relations, the frequency and methods of communication are tailored to the characteristics and
current expectations of each stakeholder group. a number of such measures are described in this
report.

concept and key funcionalities
this report covering 2016 is only available online. it is possible to generate a pdf file containing
the entire text of the report.


                                                 83

the idea and contents of the orlen group’s 2016 integrated report are based on the following
four principles:

      integration
      capitals
      human factor
      connectivity

integration

we have defined our key areas with the principle of integration in mind, which is reflected in the
very structure of this report:

      orlen group and its environment
      what the organisation deals with and in what external conditions it operates
      corporate governance
      the group’s corporate governance, relations between corporate units and key assumptions
      underlying management of the orlen group
      risks and opportunities
      the enterprise risk management system, the opportunities and challenges faced by the
      orlen group
      our strategy
      pillars of our strategy, its implementation and development directions
      financial results
      to what extent we have achieved our strategic goals
      our operations
      achievements in each area of operations (business segment)
      sustainable development
      outlook 2017+
      prospects for the future

capitals

presentation of the orlen group’s operations through its capitals – the financial, production,
human, intellectual, social and natural capital.
these capitals represent resources which are accessible to the company and which it draws on to
create value.




                                                84

human factor

strategies, achievements and efficient organisation require more than just data and processes.
behind every decision and every success there are people, which is why we asked our key
stakeholders to voice their views for this report.
thanks to them, this document provides a fuller picture of how the group creates value, makes
decisions, manages risks and delivers results − as well as its prospects for the future.

connectivity

the contents of this report are not static.
its pages are interlinked, forming a unique, chain-like structure.
each sub-section is linked to:

      capitals:

the contents may be defined through different kinds of capital − whether financial, production,
human, intellectual, social or natural.




                                                 85

this linkage enables easier access to information on the capitals, which often overlap, building
the company value in different areas.

      gri g4:

linkage to gri g4 guidelines.

this report presents non-financial data in compliance with the g4 version of the global reporting
initiative guidelines.

each page contains information on the relevant gri indicator, along with several other tools, such
as the gri search and the gri table.




      contents of previous reports:

selected internal pages link back to data from the company’s previous report, allowing users to
compare relevant data and trends over the past few years.

this report contains a number of interactive tools facilitating access to contents, an interactive
gri indicators table, a glossary of economic and industry-specific terms, and an online survey.




                                                 86

auditor's opinion
it is our policy to arrange for external assurance of the report by an independent organisation.




                                 auditor's opinion, pdf 262 kb




                                               87

gri table
below is the complete gri table including gri indicators reported for 2016.




                                               88

indicator                                                                                                                                                               description



                                                                                                                                                            general standard disclosures


                                                                                                                                                                   strategy and analysis


  g4-1      statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as ceo, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability.


  g4-2      description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.
  g4-2


                                                                                                                                                                   organisational profile


  g4-3      name of the organisation.


  g4-4      primary brands, products, and services.


  g4-5      location of the organisation’s headquarters.


  g4-6      number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report.


  g4-7      report the nature of ownership and legal form.


  g4-8      markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries).


  g4-9      scale of the organization, including:
            - total number of employees;
            - total number of operations;
            - net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations);
            - total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations);
            - quantity of products or services provided.


 g4-10      a. total number of employees by employment contract and gender.
            b. total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender.
            c. total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender.
            d. total workforce by region and gender.
            e. report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors.
            f. report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries).


 g4-11      report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.


 g4-12      describe the organization’s supply chain.
 g4-12


 g4-13      report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; changes in the share capital structure and other capital
            formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations); changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination.


                                                                                                                                                        identified material aspects and boundaries


 g4-14      report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.


 g4-15      list externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses.


 g4-16      list memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: holds a position on the governance body; participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; views membership as
            strategic. this refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level.


                                                                                                                                                        identified material aspects and boundaries


 g4-17      a. list all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents.
            b. report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. the organization can report on this standard disclosure by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent
            documents.


 g4-18      a) explain the process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries.
            b) explain how the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content.


 g4-19      list all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content.


 g4-20      for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organization, as follows: report whether the aspect is material within the organization. if the aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in g4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: - the list of
            entities or groups of entities included in g4-17 for which the aspect is not material or - the list of entities or groups of entities included in g4-17 for which the aspect is material. report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organization.


 g4-21      for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization, as follows: - report whether the aspect is material outside of the organization. - if the aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the aspect is material. in addition,
            describe the geographical location where the aspect is material for the entities identified. - report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organization.


 g4-22      report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements.


 g4-23      report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                 stakeholder engagement


 g4-24      list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation.


 g4-25      basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.


 g4-26      report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.


 g4-27      report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process.


                                                                                                                                                                       report profile


 g4-28      reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided.


 g4-29      date of most recent previous report (if any).


 g4-30      reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial).


 g4-31      provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.


                                                                                                                                                                     gri content index


 g4-32      a. 'in accordance' option the organization has chosen.
            b. gri content index for the chosen option.
            c. report the reference to the external assurance report, if the report has been externally assured. gri recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be 'in accordance' with the guidelines.


                                                                                                                                                                         assurance


 g4-33      a. report the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
            b. if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.
            c. report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers.
            d. report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report.


                                                                                                                                                                        governance


 g4-34      report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts.


                                                                                                                                                                    ethics and integrity


 g4-56      describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics.


 g4-57      report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines.


 g4-58      report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines.




                                                                                                                                                                   89

            aspect              indicator                                                                                                                                description



                                                                                                                                                           specific standard disclosures



                                                                                                                                                                    category: economic


economic performance             g4-ec1     direct economic value generated and distributed.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the economic performance aspect.


indirect economic impacts        g4-ec7     development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported.


                                 g4-ec8     significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the indirect economic impacts aspect.


procurement practices            g4-ec9     proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the procurement practices aspect.


                                                                                                                                                                category: environmental


materials                        g4-en1     materials used by weight or volume.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the materials aspect.


energy                          g4-en3*     energy consumption within the organization.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the energy aspect.


water                            g4-en8     total water withdrawal by source.


                                g4-en10     percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the water aspect.


emissions                       g4-en15     direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1).


                                g4-en21     nox, sox, and other significant air emissions.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the emissions aspect.


effluents and waste             g4-en22     total water discharge by quality and destination.


                                g4-en23     total weight of waste by type and disposal method.


                                g4-en25     weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel convention annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the effluents and waste aspect.


products and services           g4-en27     extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services.
                                g4-en27


                                g4-dma      management approach to the products and services aspect.


compliance with regulations     g4-en29     monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the compliance aspect.


overall                         g4-en31     total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the overall aspect.


environmental grievance         g4-en34     number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.
mechanisms


                                g4-dma      management approach to the environmental grievance mechanisms aspect.


                                                                                                                                                                      category: social


                                                                                                                                                              labour practices and decent work


workforce                        g4-la2     benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the employment aspect.


occupational health and          g4-la5     percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.
safety


                                 g4-la6     type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender.


                                 g4-la7     workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation.


                                 g4-la8     health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the occupational health and safety aspect.


training and education           g4-la9     average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category.


                                g4-la10     programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the training and education aspect.


diversity and equal             g4-la12     composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.
opportunity


                                g4-dma      management approach to the diversity and equal opportunity aspect.


                                                                                                                                                                    product responsibility


customer health and safety       g4-pr1     percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement.


                                 g4-pr2     total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the customer health and safety aspect.


product and service labelling    g4–pr3     type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements.


                                 g4-pr5     results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the product and service labelling aspect.


marketing communications         g4-pr6     sale of banned or disputed products.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the marketing communications aspect.


customer privacy                 g4-pr8     total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.


                                g4-dma      management approach to the customer privacy aspect.


                                                                                                                                                  indicators specified in the oil and gas sector supplement


                                 og-13      number of process safety events, by business activity.


                                 og-14      volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria.




                                                                                                                         90

corporate governance
letter from the chairwoman of the supervisory
board
ladies and gentlemen,




in 2016, the orlen group demonstrated that it was well positioned to rise to the
challenges that were ahead. with a consistent roll-out of its strategy, the highest
management standards, and coherent vision for growth, the company
successfully leveraged its strong market standing and competitive edge. these
factors was recognised and appreciated by the shareholders: pkn orlen’s stock
price and market capitalisation reached an all-time high at the close of 2016,
after the announcement of the 2017-2021 strategy.

                                                                   angelina sarota
                         chairwoman of the supervisory board of pkn orlen s.a.




importantly, orlen group’s excellent performance went hand in hand with key investments,
mainly in the downstream sector and power generation. as usual, the retail segment delivered an
outstanding performance, supported by the constant development of its product and service
portfolio to meet the needs of service station customers. the company also consistently built its
know-how in the upstream sector, expanded its asset base and increased the output of its polish
and canadian assets, in keeping with the adopted strategy.

the company’s organisational culture invariably remains its major competitive advantage.
we are glad to see that it is still innovation-driven, and the initiatives implemented in 2016 prove
that pkn orlen looks for innovation opportunities both in and inside the company. what is even
more important for its stable growth, it is able to achieve its business goals in a transparent and
sustainable manner. in 2016, pkn orlen was not only included in wse’s respect index again,
but it also received yet another most ethical company title, which is awarded to the world’s most
ethical businesses. the beginning of 2017 saw the first listing of the company’s stock in london’s


                                                 91

ftse4good emerging index, bringing together companies from over 20 countries which
demonstrate outstanding performance in environmental protection, social responsibility and
corporate governance.

in 2016, the company continued to apply the highest standards of corporate governance and
shareholder communication. in accordance with the adopted strategy, shareholders were paid
a higher dividend than a year before. all stakeholder groups received access to exhaustive
information about both the financial and non-financial aspects of the company’s operations in the
orlen group’s 2015 integrated report, which was highly appreciated by experts. the company’s
financial and non-financial reporting, investor relations, and corporate governance rules were
also recognised by the accounting and tax institute, which has just recently awarded the
prestigious ‘transparent company 2016’ title to pkn orlen.

a year ago, when i attempted to identify the challenges for the coming 12 months, i focused
mainly on the need to revise the strategic assumptions of the company against the backdrop of
a dynamically changing business environment. today we know that the new strategy was well
received by both the market and the shareholders. i am certain that, combined with the
company’s excellent organisation and strong financial footing, it forms a solid foundation for
orlen group’s future sustainable growth.

angelina sarota
chairwoman of the supervisory board of pkn orlen
s.a.




                                               92

corporate governance at pkn orlen




the rules of operation for pkn orlen’s governing bodies are defined in:

      the company’s articles of association
      rules of procedure for the general meeting of pkn orlen
      rules of procedure for the supervisory board of pkn orlen
      rules of procedure for the management board of pkn orlen

the documents are available on pkn orlen’s website at www.orlen.pl, in the company section
(under corporate bylaws) and investor relations section (under general meetings).

for an amendment to pkn orlen’s articles of association to take effect, a relevant resolution
must be passed by the general meeting and a relevant entry must be made in the business
register. a resolution of the general meeting to amend the articles of association is passed by
a majority of three-quarters of the votes cast. the general meeting may authorise the
supervisory board to prepare the consolidated text of the amended articles of association or to
make other editing changes specified in a resolution of the general meeting. following the entry
of the amended articles of association in the business register, a relevant current report is
published by pkn orlen.

the ‘company’ and ‘investor relations’ sections of the pkn orlen corporate website contain the
most up to date information on the composition of the company’s supervisory board and
management board, as well as annual statements concerning compliance with the code of best
practice for wse listed companies.

the company has established a special team responsible for the supervision of the company’s



                                               93

compliance with corporate governance disclosure obligations as specified in the stock exchange
rules and legal regulations concerning the disclosure of current and periodic information. it
consists of three supervisory board members delegated by the supervisory board to individually
perform these duties. in 2016, they held several meetings with representatives of the
management board and employees, discussing the alignment of the company’s internal
organisational documents with amendments to the code of best practice for wse listed
companies, and regulations concerning the company’s disclosure obligations on the capital
market effective as of july 3rd 2016. other matters under discussion included new rules of
reporting information to the capital market vis-a-vis the rules which had been in effect prior to
the amendment of applicable laws. matters on the agenda also concerned uncertainties as to the
interpretation of new eu regulations.

corporate governance rules applied by pkn orlen
in 2016, pkn orlen applied all of the rules contained in the code of best practice for wse listed
companies 2016 (‘code of best practice’) effective on the warsaw stock exchange (‘wse’, ‘the
exchange’). the code is available on the wse website at www.gpw.pl and on pkn orlen
corporate website in the shareholders section
www.orlen.pl/en/investorrelations/shareholderservicestools/pages/wsebestpractice.aspx.




                                               94

communication with the capital market




one of the key tools for communication with representatives of the capital market is the investor
relations section on the corporate website at www.orlen.pl, which is presented both in polish and
in english. the investor relations section contains information communicated mainly to investors
and analysts. it includes:

      current and periodic reports,
      presentations relating to the publication of financial results and other events,
      multimedia files with recordings of teleconferences and videoconferences,
      interactive charts and tables presenting the company’s historical financials in different
      time horizons, which may be embedded in excel sheets,
      performance of the pkn orlen stock and main stock exchange indices,
      contact form for website visitors,
      newsletter and rss channel,
      interactive calendar with the option of setting sms or e-mail notifications of key events at
      the company,
      retail investors tab.

the investor relations section also contains a corporate governance tab, which is where the
company’s annual reports on compliance with wse best practices, as well as the code of best
practice for wse listed companies itself, can all be downloaded. in addition, it presents a brief


                                                 95

statement of the best practices applied by the company, and all other information required by
the code.

the general meeting tab in the investor relations section contains complete documentation and
information concerning the company’s general meetings and a contact form relating to the gm.

the company offers multiple opportunities to its shareholders, investors and stock exchange
analysts to gain knowledge about its business. pkn orlen’s website ffbk.orlen.com presents
expert publications and coverage of industry conferences, and includes an expert blog from pkn
orlen’s chief economist (ffbk.orlen.com/blog), with his comments on current market
developments. the company also posts short communications via its twitter account
(twitter.com/pkn_orlen).

in addition, pkn orlen maintains direct contacts with the capital market through regular
meetings with investors and analysts in poland and abroad. it holds general-access conferences
following all major corporate events such as the publication of quarterly results or strategy
announcements, which are web-streamed along with simultaneous interpretation into english.

furthermore, the company organises one-on-one and group meetings, as well as conference calls
with capital market stakeholders.

roadshows for polish and foreign investors are held on a regular basis. market participants can
attend site visits to meet pkn orlen’s key management personnel at the head office and in
other locations where the company operates.

pkn orlen also organises investor and analyst days, during which thematic workshops are
conducted by management board members, executive directors and other selected managers to
present various aspects of the company’s activity. in 2016, the company held meetings with
358 representatives of financial institutions (including 153 polish and 205 foreign organisations)
and participated in 11 investor conferences.

in 2016, for the fourth year running, pkn orlen paid a dividend of pln 2 per share to its
shareholders.

the company makes every effort to publish its periodic reports as soon as it is practicable after
the close of a reporting period. in 2016, quarterly and half-year reports were published on
average 23 days after the end of the period, and full-year reports were published 84 days
after the end of the year.

capital market participants appreciate the company’s efforts, as reflected in the awards and
distinctions received by the company in 2016:

      the ‘bulls and bears’ award in the wig20 company of the year category according to the
      gazeta giełdy i inwestorów parkiet daily;
      awards of the ‘investor relations survey at the wig 30 index companies’, a joint initiative
      of izba domów maklerskich (brokerage house chamber) and gazeta giełdy i inwestorów
      parkiet:
      - second place in the ‘best retail investor relations’ category,
      - second place in the ‘best institutional investor relations’ category;
      pkn orlen secured top spot in the ‘transparent company of the year 2016’ ranking


                                                96

      organised by the accounting and tax institute and gazeta giełdy i inwestorów parkiet ;
      orlen capital ab, pkn orlen’s subsidiary, won the wse award for leaders of the polish
      capital market in the category ‘best ipo value on the catalyst market in 2016’, for
      introducing the trade of 7-year eurobonds worth eur 750m.
      the company maintained its presence in the 10th edition of the respect index, and at the
      start of 2017 its shares were included in the ftse4good emerging index, measuring the
      performance of companies from more than 20 countries which demonstrate strong
      environmental, social and governance (esg) practices.
      for the fourth time running, pkn orlen received ‘the best of the best’ special award in
      the best annual report competition organised by the accounting and tax institute. in the
      same contest it also received the following awards:
      - best integrated report,
      - best application of ifrs/ias,
      - best reporting team.

company response in case of public opinion emerging
concerning information which may injure its reputation
in pkn orlen, there is an internal regulation in force, concerning the rules for engaging in
activity which forms the image of the company and contact with mass media representatives as
well as passing on information, relevant to the image of pkn orlen, to the corporate
communication department’s executive director. this regulation obliges participants to engage
in a multistage verification of the information concerning the company and its representatives
before it’s made public.

the above regulation also sets out the rules of reaction in a situation where opinions and
information expressed in public by third parties may harm the reputation of the company. the
person responsible for the coordination of this process is the executive director of the corporate
communication department.




                                                97

major holdings of shares
in 2016 and until the date of authorization of this
report there was no change in the structure of
shareholders with a stake of more than 5% of pkn
orlen share capital.
the number of shares held by the shareholders is presented based on the most recent, official
information acquired by the company.

the ownership rights of pkn orlen’s shares are fully transferable.

shareholding structure in pkn orlen as of 1 january 2016, 31 december 2016 and the date of
the approval of this report:


                                                                                                                   share of
                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                     share
                                                                                                                    capital
                                                                                                                   and the
                                                                                                                      total
                                               share of the                         share of the      number       number
                                                   share                                share        of shares     of votes
                                               capital and                          capital and      and votes       at the
                                number of        the total           number of        the total         at the     general
                               shares and       number of            shares and      number of        general      meeting
                               votes at the    votes at the         votes at the    votes at the      meeting       (on the
                                 general         general              general         general          (on the      date of
                               meeting (as     meeting (as          meeting (as     meeting (as        date of     approval
                                    of               of                  of               of         approval        of the
                                          *                *                   **               **
                               01.01.2016      01.01.2016           31.12.2016      31.12.2016          of the       report
                                                                                                             ***        ***
             shareholder            )                )                    )               )           report )             )



     state treasury              117710196           27.52%           117710196           27.52%     117710196       27.52%


     nationale-nederlanden        39000000            9.12%            39785564            9.30%      35590112        8.32%
     ofe


     aviva ofe                    34000000            7.95%            31257000            7.31%      30000000        7.01%


     others                      236998865           55.41%           238956301           55.87%     244408753       57.15%



     total                       427709061          100.00%           427709061          100.00%     427709061     100.00%




*
     according to the information from the ogm pkn orlen held on 28 april 2015
**
     according to the information from the ogm pkn orlen held on 3 june 2016
***
      according to the information from egm pkn orlen held on 24 january 2017

pkn orlen shareholders as at june 30th 2017:



                                                               98

                                                                                               share in
                                                             number of        ownership      total voting
                                       number of              voting           interest        rights at
          shareholder                   shares                 rights            (%)            gm (%)



 state treasury                          117710196           117710196              27.52%        27.52%


 nationale-nederlanden                    33000000            33000000               7.72%         7.72%
 ofe*



 aviva ofe*                               29900000            29900000               6.99%         6.99%



 other                                   247098865           247098865              57.77%        57.77%



 total                                   427709061           427709061            100.00%        100.00%



*based on information obtained at the pkn orlen annual general meeting on june 30th 2017




                                                        99

special shareholder rights
one pkn orlen share confers the right to one vote at
the company’s general meeting.
the exercise of the voting right and special control have been regulated in detail in pkn orlen’s
articles of association. according to the provisions of the articles, one share of pkn orlen
entitles to one vote at the company’s general meeting .the voting right of the shareholders has
been restricted in the statute of the company to the extent that none of them can exercise more
than 10% of the total votes existing in the company as at the date the general meeting is held.
the restriction of the voting right does not apply to the state treasury and the depositary bank
which issued, on the basis of the agreement with the company, depository receipts in connection
with the company’s shares (in case this entity exercises the voting right from the company’s
shares).
the shareholders whose votes are subject to accumulation and reduction are jointly referred to
as ‘the shareholders grouping’. the rules of accumulation and reduction are specified in detail in
the statute of the company. the shareholders being a part of the shareholders grouping cannot
exercise the voting right from more than 10% of the total votes existing in the company as at the
date the general meeting is held.
if the cumulated number of shares registered in the general meeting by the shareholders being
a part of the shareholders grouping exceeds 10% of the total number of shares of the company,
the votes resulting from the number of held shares are subject to reduction, the rules of which
have been specified in detail in the statute of the company.
the restriction of the voting right, described above, does not apply to the entities dependent on
the state treasury.

the state treasury is entitled to appoint and recall one member of the supervisory board.
furthermore, one member of the management board of pkn orlen is appointed and recalled by
the supervisory board upon the request of the state treasury.

additionally, in accordance with the statute of the company, as long as the state treasury is
entitled to appoint a member of the supervisory board, a resolution granting approval for
activities related to sale or encumbrance in any way of shares or stock in the following
companies: naftoport sp. z o.o., inowrocławskie kopalnie soli s.a. as well as in the company that
will be created in order to operate the pipeline transport of liquid fuels, require a vote in favour of
their adoption by the supervisory board member appointed by the state treasury.

special rights for the state treasury shareholder can be a result of the commonly applicable
provisions of law, i.e.:

      the act of 18 march 2010 on specific rights vested in the minister in charge of energy and
      their execution in certain capital companies or capital groups conducting business activities
      in the electricity, crude oil and gas fuel factors,
      the act of 24 july 2015 on the control of certain investments,
      the act of 16 december 2016 on the rules of managing the national assets.




                                                 100

general meetings in 2016
in 2016 two general meetings were held: an
extraordinary general meeting on 29 january 2016 and
an ordinary general meeting on 3 june 2016.
the extraordinary general meeting determined the number of supervisory board members and
adopted resolutions related to amendments in supervisory board composition.

during the ordinary general meeting the shareholders approved the annual reports on the
operations of the company and the orlen group as well as the financial statements for 2015.
they also decided on the fulfilment of duties by all of the supervisory and management boards
members.

the general meeting, familiarized with the motion of the management board and the opinion of
the supervisory board, decided to distribute the net profit for fiscal year 2015 amounting to pln
1,047,519,491.84 pln as follows:

      the sum of pln 855,418,122.00 dedicated to a dividend payment (pln 2.00 pln per share),
      the outstanding sum i.e. pln 192,101,369.84 dedicated to the company’s supplementary
      capital.

the ordinary general meeting set 15 july 2016 as the dividend date and 5 august 2015 as the
dividend payment date.

the ordinary general meeting also appointed the supervisory board members for a new term of
office.

competence of pkn orlen’s general meeting
the general meeting of shareholders is especially authorized to:

      consider and approve the company’s annual financial statements; the annual report
      concerning the company’s business operations; the consolidated financial statements of
      the orlen group and the report on the orlen group business operations for the previous
      financial year,
      acknowledge the fulfilment of duties by the supervisory board and management board
      members,
      decide on the allocation of profit and provisions for losses as well as on the use of funds set
      up from profit,
      appoint the supervisory board members, subject to the provisions of § 8 item 2 of the
      articles of association, and establish principles for their remuneration,
      increase or decrease the share capital unless otherwise stated in the commercial code and
      the company’s articles of association,
      decide on claims for the rectification of damage caused when setting up the company or
      exercising supervision or management,
      approve the sale or lease of a company or a part of a company and establish a limited
      property right on such enterprise or an organized part thereof,
      grant consent to the sale of real estate, perpetual usufruct or interest in real estate which


                                                101

has a net book value that exceeds one twentieth of the company’s share capital,
amend the company’s articles of association,
set up and dissolve reserve capital funds and other capital funds and the company’s funds,
resolutions to redeem shares and buy shares to be redeemed and to establish the
redemption rules,
issue convertible bonds or bonds with pre-emptive rights and issue warrants,
dissolution, liquidation, restructuring of the company and merger with another company,
holding contracts within the meaning of article 7 of the commercial companies code.




                                        102

management and supervisory bodies
the activities of the supervisory board and its
committees and of the management board of pkn
orlen are governed by the company’s articles of
association, the rules of procedure for the supervisory
board, the rules of procedure for the management
board as well as by generally applicable laws. they are
also influenced by the corporate governance principles
of the warsaw stock exchange (code of best practice
for wse listed companies).

supervisory board
    composition of the supervisory board of pkn orlen as of january 1st 2016:


angelina sarota          chairwoman


leszek pawłowicz         deputy chairman, independent member


adam ambrozik            secretary of the supervisory board


grzegorz borowiec        member


artur gabor              independent member


cezary banasiński        independent member


radosław l. kwaśnicki    member


cezary możeński          member


remigiusz nowakowski     member (appointed pursuant to art.8.2.1 of the company’s articles
                         of association)




                                           103

on january 28th 2016, pursuant to art. 8.2.1 of the articles of association of polski koncern
naftowy orlen spółka akcyjna, the minister of the state treasury removed remigiusz
nowakowski from the supervisory board.

at the request of the state treasury as a shareholder, pkn orlen convened an extraordinary
general meeting for january 29th 2016 and made the following changes to the supervisory
board’s composition:

      the following persons were removed from the pkn orlen supervisory board:


 leszek pawłowicz                      deputy chairman, independent member


 adam ambrozik                         secretary of the supervisory board


 grzegorz borowc                       member


 cezaregy banasiński                   independent member


 cezary możeński                       member



      the following persons were appointed as members of the supervisory board:


 mateusz bochacki           secretary of the supervisory board


 agnieszka krzętowska       independent member (in accordance with her representation made
                            on march 22nd 2016)


 arkadiusz siwko            member


 adrian dworzyński          independent member


 remigiusz nowakowski       member




                                                104

    composition of the supervisory board of pkn orlen s.a. as of january 29th 2016:


angelina sarota          chairwoman


radosław l. kwaśnicki    deputy chairman (as of february 8th 2016)


mateusz bochacik         secretary of the supervisory board (as of february 8th 2016)


artur gabor              independent member


adrian dworzyński        independent member


agnieszka krzętowska     independent member (in accordance with her representation made
                         on march 22nd 2016)


remigiusz nowakowski     member


arkadiusz siwko          member




                                           105

as the term of office of the pkn orlen supervisory board was due to expire in 2016, the annual
general meeting held on june 3rd 2016 appointed supervisory board members for a new term.

     composition of the pkn orlen supervisory board as of june 3rd 2016:


 angelina sarota           chairwoman


 radosław l. kwaśnicki     deputy chairman (since june 28th 2016)


 mateusz bochacik          secretary of the supervisory board (since june 28th 2016)


 artur gabor               independent member


 adrian dworzyński         independent member


 agnieszka krzętowska      member (in accordance with her representation made on june 6th
                           2016)


 remigiusz nowakowski      member


 wiesław protasewicz       member



on september 14th 2016, remigiusz nowakowski, member of the supervisory board, resigned
from his office. since september 15th 2016, the supervisory board has consisted of seven
members. as of december 31st 2016, the composition of the supervisory board has not changed.




                                              106

number of men and women on the pkn orlen supervisory board, reflecting the most recent
changes:


                                                              number of           number of
                         as of                                 women                men



 jan 1 2016                                                         1                    8


 jan 29 2016                                                        2                    6


 jun 3 2016 – sep 14 2016                                           2                    6


 sep 15 2016 – dec 3 2016                                           2                    5




powers and responsibilities of the supervisory board
the pkn orlen supervisory board exercises ongoing supervision over all areas of the company’s
activities. its powers and responsibilities are defined in the commercial companies code and the
company’s articles of association. the supervisory board takes steps to ensure that the
management board provides it with regular and exhaustive reports on all matters of importance
and risks connected with pkn orlen’s business, as well as on how the risks are managed.

powers of the supervisory board are outlined in the company’s articles of association.

with the highest standards of best practice in mind, and to enable the shareholders to reliably
assess the company’s operations, each year the pkn orlen supervisory board submits to the
annual general meeting a report about the previous year. as required by the amended code of
best practice for wse listed companies, in effect since january 1st 2016, the supervisory board’s
report for 2016 includes:

     findings of the assessment of the directors’ report on the company’s operations and the
     company’s financial statements for 2016, with respect to their consistency with the
     relevant accounting records and documents, as well as with the facts;
     findings of the assessment of the directors’ report on the orlen group’s operations and
     the orlen group’s consolidated financial statements for 2016;
     findings of its examination of the management board’s proposal concerning the allocation
     of profit for 2016;
     assessment of the company’s standing, including assessment of the internal audit, risk
     management and compliance systems, and of the internal audit function;
     report on the activities of the supervisory board, including the activities of its committees,
     and the supervisory board’s self-assessment for 2016;
     assessment of the company’s compliance with corporate governance disclosure obligations


                                               107

      as specified in the stock exchange rules and legal regulations concerning the disclosure of
      current and periodic information by the issuers of securities;
      assessment of the reasonableness of the company’s sponsorship, portfolio, including,
      charitable or similar initiatives.

supervisory board committees
the pkn orlen supervisory board may appoint standing or ad hoc committees, to act as its
collective advisory and opinion-forming bodies.

the supervisory board has appointed the following standing committees from among its
members:

      audit committee,
      strategy and development committee,
      nomination and remuneration committee,
      corporate governance committee,
      corporate social responsibility committee (csr committee).

the powers of individual committees are defined in detail in the rules of procedure for the
supervisory board, available on the company’s website at www.orlen.pl. the supervisory board
appoints its committees from among its members; each committee elects its chairperson.

audit committee
the audit committee has been established to advise the pkn orlen supervisory board on the
proper implementation of the budget and financial reporting as well as internal control standards
at the company and the orlen group, and to collaborate with the company’s auditors.
responsibilities of the audit committee include in particular:

      monitoring the work of the company’s auditors and making recommendations to the
      supervisory board on the appointment and remuneration of auditors;
      prior to each audit of the full-year financial statements − discussing the nature and scope
      of the audit with the company’s auditors and monitoring the coordination of work between
      them; reviewing the company’s interim and full-year separate and consolidated financial
      statements, with a particular focus on:
             any changes in accounting standards, policies and practices,
             key areas of judgement,
             material post-audit adjustments,
             going-concern statements,
             compliance with the applicable accounting laws.

the audit committee’s responsibilities also include:

      discussing any issues or reservations that may be identified in the course of or that arise
      from the audit of financial statements;
      analysing auditors’ letters to the management board, the independence and objectivity of
      the audit, and the management board’s response;
      giving opinions on annual and long-term budgets;
      giving opinions on dividend policy, distribution of profit, and issues related to securities;


                                                108

     reviewing the management accounting system;
     reviewing the internal control systems, including control mechanisms in the areas of
     finance, operations, compliance, risk assessment and management;
     analysing reports prepared by the company’s internal auditors and key observations made
     by other internal analysts, as well as the management board’s responses to such
     observations; verifying the independence of internal auditors and giving opinions on the
     management board’s plans for hiring and dismissing individuals in charge of internal audit
     functions;
     annual review of the internal audit schedule, coordination of the work of internal and
     a third-party auditors, and review of the work conditions of internal auditors;
     cooperating with the company’s audit and control units and making a periodic assessment
     of their work;
     considering any other matters pertaining to the company audit raised by the committee or
     the supervisory board;
     reporting any material issues related to the committee’s operations to the supervisory
     board.

corporate governance committee
the responsibilities of the corporate governance committee include:

     implementing corporate governance standards;
     submitting to the supervisory board recommendations on the application of corporate
     governance standards;
     giving opinions on corporate governance documents;
     assessing reports on compliance with corporate governance standards drafted for the
     warsaw stock exchange;
     giving opinions on proposed amendments to the company’s corporate documents and
     drafting such amendments for the supervisory board’s own documents;
     monitoring company management procedures in terms of their compliance with legal and
     regulatory requirements, including the ‘core values and standards of conduct of pkn
     orlen s.a.’ and corporate governance principles.

strategy and development committee
the strategy and development committee’s role is to provide the supervisory board with
opinions and recommendations regarding any planned investments and divestments with the
potential to produce a material effect on the company’s assets.

the responsibilities of the strategy and development committee include in particular:

     assessing the effects of proposed and actual investments and divestments on the
     company’s assets;
     assessing any actions, agreements, letters of intent and other documents related to steps
     taken to acquire, sell, encumber or otherwise dispose of the company’s material assets;
     giving opinions on all strategic documents submitted to the supervisory board by the
     management board;
     giving opinions on company development strategies and long-term budgets.



                                              109

nomination and remuneration committee
the nomination and remuneration committee is responsible for supporting the company’s
strategic goals by providing the supervisory board with opinions and recommendations regarding
the company’s management structure, including organisational solutions, remuneration systems,
and the selection of personnel with appropriate qualifications to contribute to the company’s
success.

responsibilities of the nomination and remuneration committee include in particular:

      initiating and presenting opinions on the process of nominating management board
      members;
      giving opinions on management solutions proposed by the management board, designed
      to ensure efficient, coherent and secure management of the company;
      periodically reviewing and recommending rules of incentive remuneration schemes for
      management board members and senior management personnel, in line with the
      company’s best interest;
      periodically reviewing the remuneration system for management board members and
      management personnel reporting directly to management board members, including
      management contracts and incentive schemes, and submitting to the supervisory board
      proposals concerning such contracts and schemes in the context of the company’s
      strategic objectives;
      submitting to the supervisory board opinions on grounds for awarding performance-based
      remuneration in the context of the degree of achievement of the company’s objectives and
      targets;
      assessing the hr management system in place at the company.

corporate social responsibility committee
the corporate social responsibility (csr) committee is responsible for supporting the company
in pursuing its strategic goals by incorporating social, ethical and environmental objectives in its
operations and relationships with stakeholders, including employees, customers, shareholders
and the local community. responsibilities of the csr committee include in particular:

      supervising the company’s implementation of the corporate social responsibility strategy;
      monitoring corporate management practices for compliance with the ‘core values and
      standards of conduct of pkn orlen s.a.’;
      periodically assessing the company’s csr initiatives;
      approving annual reports on the company’s csr initiatives.




                                                 110

management
     composition of pkn orlen’s management board as of 1 january 2016:


                                                             position held on the pkn
                    name and surname                        orlen management board



 wojciech jasiński                                       president of the management
                                                         board, chief executive officer


 sławomir jędrzejczyk                                    vice – president of the
                                                         management board, chief financial
                                                         officer


 piotr chełmiński                                        member of the management board,
                                                         business development/power and
                                                         heat generation officer


 krystian pater                                          member of the management board,
                                                         production


 marek podstawa                                          member of the management board,
                                                         sales



the supervisory board at its meeting on 8 february 2016, dismissed mr marek podstawa from the
management board of pkn orlen and appointed mr mirosław kochalski to the position of vice-
president of the management board of the company and mr zbigniew leszczyński to the position
of management board member of the company for a joint three-year term of the management
board, which terminates on the date of the ordinary general meeting approving the financial
statements of the company for 2016.




                                            111

    composition of pkn orlen’s management board as of 8 february 2016:


                                                         position held on the pkn
                   name and surname                     orlen management board



wojciech jasiński                                    president of the management
                                                     board, chief executive officer


sławomir jędrzejczyk                                 vice – president of the
                                                     management board, chief financial
                                                     officer


mirosław kochalski                                   vice – president of the
                                                     management board (corporate
                                                     affairs since 12 february 2016)


piotr chełmiński                                     member of the management board,
                                                     business development/power and
                                                     heat generation officer


zbigniew leszczyński                                 member of the management board
                                                     (sales since 12 february 2016)


krystian pater                                       member of the management board,
                                                     production




                                         112

division of powers of the company’s management
board
the division of responsibilities of the members of the management board of pkn orlen as of
31 december 2016:




     mr wojciech jasiński, president of the management board of pkn orlen, also serving as
     the chief executive officer, is in charge of the following areas: strategy and project
     management, crude oil and gas trade, marketing, corporate communication, audit, control
     and management of corporate risk, protection of information, critical infrastructure and
     defence matters, safety and head office.
     mr sławomir jędrzejczyk, vice president of the management board. chief financial officer
     supervises the following areas: planning and reporting, business control, supply chain
     management, finance management, taxes, investor relations, capital investments and
     divestments, it.
     mr mirosław kochalski, vice president of the management board, corporate affairs,
     supervises such areas as: human resources, purchases, legal department, the capital
     group, management of regulatory risk, organisation and management systems.
     mr piotr chełmiński, member of the management board. business development/power and
     heat generation officer supervises the following areas: implementation of property
     investments, power and heat generation development, health and safety, environmental
     protection.
     mr zbigniew leszczyński, member of the management board in charge of sales supervises
     the following areas: refining and petrochemical products, retail sale, logistics, efficiency
     and development of sales.
     mr krystian pater, member of the management board in charge of production supervises


                                              113

      the following areas: refinery production, petrochemical production, investment and
      production efficiency, technology.

competencies of pkn orlen`s management board
all of the members of the management board are obliged and authorized to handle the issues of
pkn orlen.

all of the maters going beyond the ordinary course of business are subject to resolutions of the
management board. activities falling within the scope of the ordinary course of business are
activities related to fuels trading within the meaning of the company’s articles of association (i.e.
crude oil, petroleum products, biocomponents. biofuels and other fuels including natural gas,
industrial gas and fuel gas) or energy and any other activities not specified in the constitution the
of management board.

resolution of the management board is required, among other matters to:

      adopt and amend the constitution of the management board,
      adopt and amend the organisational rules and regulations of pkn orlen,
      adopt motions to be submitted to the supervisory board and/or to the general meeting of
      shareholders,
      convene the general meetings of shareholders and adopt the proposed agenda of the
      general meetings,
      approve annual and long-term financial plans as well as the company’s development
      strategy,
      approve investment tasks and the corresponding liabilities if the resulting expenditures and
      encumbrances exceed pln 10 000 000,
      incur liabilities, manage property rights and any form of encumbrance on the company’s
      property where the total value exceeds pln 20 000 000 (with certain exceptions to that
      rule)
      dispose of and purchase real estate, perpetual usufruct or an interest in real estate and to
      establish a limited property right,
      dispose of, purchase and encumber stakes, shares or other interest in other entities,
      including shares admitted to public trading,
      issue the company’s securities,
      approve the company’s and the orlen group’s financial statements,
      adopt and change the company’s employees’ remuneration scheme, as well as decisions
      regarding the introduction and fundamentals of the incentive schemes,
      conclude amend and terminate a collective labour agreement applicable to the company,
      and other agreements with trade unions,
      establish the principles of granting and revoking the powers of attorney,
      formulate the so-called donation policy of the company,
      grant a procuration,
      establish the internal segregation of duties among the members of the management board,
      set up establishments/offices abroad,
      handle other matters which at least one member of the management board requests to be
      handled in the form of a resolution,
      take decisions on the payment of interim dividends



                                                114

the management board has to regularly provide the supervisory board with exhaustive
information on all aspects of pkn orlen’s business operations and the risks related to such
operations as well as the methods used to manage such risks.




                                              115

remuneration policy
remuneration for members of the board is determined
by the supervisory board with consideration of
recommendations of the nomination and remuneration
committee.




all elements of the remuneration and additional benefits are regulated by an agreement between
the member of the management board and the company. on 24 january 2017, an extraordinary
general meeting of shareholders was held, during which resolutions were adopted concerning the
rules of determining the remuneration of management board and supervisory board members.

benefits for management board members at pkn orlen may include a company car, life and
endowment insurance, private medical insurance for the management board members and for
their closest family members, and potential coverage of reasonable costs of personal and
property security.
benefits for directors reporting to the management board at pkn orlen may include a company
car, coverage of the costs of investment insurance premiums, right to use extra medical service
for the directors and their family members, including preventive health care, sports activities and
rehabilitation, co-financing of rent if the director is renting a flat, coverage of the costs of moving
house during the employment period, possibility of enjoying the benefits described in the rules of
the company social benefits fund, and the right to participate in the employee pension scheme
in accordance with the rules in force at the company.

the remuneration policy in place at pkn orlen supports the achievement of the company’s
goals, including in particular the long-term increase of value for shareholders and stability of
functioning of the company.

general terms and conditions of the annual bonuses

members of the management board are entitled to an annual bonus on the principles established
in the contract, which includes the bonus system regulations for the management board. the
level of annual bonus depends on the performance of individual tasks (qualitative and
quantitative), established by the supervisory board for the individual members of the
management board. the supervisory board appoints each year from four to seven individual
bonus tasks that are recorded in goals charter of the board member. assessment of the
performance of individual bonus tasks (quantitative and qualitative) by particular member of the
management board is made each year by the supervisory board on the chairman of the
management board’s recommendation, which contains assessment of individually performed
bonus tasks of all members of the management board, reports on the performance of bonus tasks


                                                 116

by members of the board, pkn orlen’s financial statements and other documents the
investigation of which the supervisory board deems appropriate.
the supervisory board adopts a resolution to grant or not the board member of the annual bonus
for the financial year, and its amount, by 30 april of the following year. the annual bonus will be
paid if the company's consolidated financial statements for the financial year will be approved by
the general meeting.

for 2016, the supervisory board has set for all members of the management board the following
six quantitative objectives:

      ebit reported of the concern,
      ebitda lifo of the concern,
      maintenance capex of the concern + overhead and personnel costs of the concern,
      development capex of the concern,
      stock exchange rate: tsr pkn relative to the market,
      accident rate: the concern’s trr.

and attributed to them relevant bonus thresholds. the supervisory board for each of the
members of the management board also established quality objectives associated with
supervised by them unit.

rules for awarding bonuses for key management personnel (including members of the
management board)

the regulations applicable to pkn orlen management board, directors reporting directly to the
management board of pkn orlen and other key positions have certain common features.
persons covered by the above-mentioned systems are remunerated for the implementation of
individual goals set at the beginning of the bonus period by the supervisory board for the
management board and the management board for the key executive personnel. the bonus
systems are consistent with the company's values and promote cooperation between particular
employees and motivate them to achieve the best possible results for the pkn orlen.
the targets set are qualitative and quantitative, and are settled for after end of the year for
which they were set, based on the principles adopted in the applicable bonus system
regulations. regulations also gives the possibility to highlight employees who have a significant
contribution to the achieved results.
the rules of paying bonuses to management boards members of the orlen group companies in
2017 will be adjusted to the requirements resulting from the act on the principles of determining
remuneration of managing persons in certain companies.

remuneration of the members of the management board and the supervisory board of the
company due to sit on the management or supervisory boards of subsidiaries, jointly controlled
entities and associates

members of the pkn orlen’s management board in 2016, who were acting as the management
or supervisory boards members of subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates of the
orlen group did not receive any remuneration, with the exception of unipetrol a.s. wherein the
payments were transferred to orlen’s foundation “dar serca”. as at 31 december 2016, four
members of the management board of pkn orlen sat on the supervisory board of unipetrol a.s.



                                               117

the agreements with the members about non-competition and termination on appeal from the
position held

in accordance with applicable agreements, members of pkn orlen’s management board are
required for a period of 6 or 12 months from the date of termination or expiry of the contract, to
refrain from competitive activities. during this period, the management board members are
entitled to receive compensation in the amount of six or twelve monthly basic salary, paid in
equal monthly instalments. the company may waive the president and members of the
management board of the non-competition clause applicable after the termination or expiration
of the contract or reduce the duration of the ban. in the case of an exemption from the ban of
competition, the company does not pay compensation. if the period of the ban of competition
was shortened, compensation shall be in proportion to the duration of non-competition.
in addition, the agreements provide for the payment of compensation in case of termination due
to dismissal from the post. salary in this case amounts to six or twelve basic monthly
remuneration. the supervisory board may authorize the use of these provisions also in case of
resignation from the position of member of the management board as board member.

directors directly subordinated to pkn orlen management board as well as the board members
of other orlen group companies are normally required to refrain from competitive activities for
a period of 6 months from the date of termination or expiry of the agreement. at that time they
receive a salary equal to 50% of six-month basic salary, payable in 6 equal monthly instalments.
the briefing for termination of contract by the employer is typically three or six basic monthly
remuneration.

the agreements between members of the management boards of the orlen group companies in
2017 will be adjusted to the requirements resulting from the act on the principles of determining
remuneration of managing persons in certain companies.




                                               118

risks and opportunities
risk management
in the course of its business, the orlen group
monitors and assesses its risk exposures on an ongoing
basis and takes steps to minimise their effect on its
financial position.
the functioning of the corporate and market risk
management system
the orlen group monitors its operations and assesses risk to formulate activities to undertake
in order to minimise its impact on the overall financial situation on an ongoing basis.

in 2016 pkn orlen and the orlen group companies’ corporate risk management policy and
procedure which comprehensively regulates the process of the corporate risk management
system was updated. pkn orlen has an audit and corporate risk management department,
which coordinates the corporate risk management process at all levels of the organisation and
makes an independent and objective evaluation of risk management and internal control as well
as business process analysis. the department conducts audit tasks based on annual audit plans
approved by the management board and accepted by the audit committee of the supervisory
board and the supervisory board. the department may also perform ad hoc audits
commissioned by the supervisory board and the management board.

key roles in corporate risk management system:




                                              119

the methodology adopted by the audit, control and corporate risk management office allows us
to identify risk on the basis of one common model and link them with business processes and
strategic objectives.

the enterprise risk management (erm) system is one of the tools facilitating the effectiveness of
the realization of strategic and operational goals. it ensures comprehensive identification of risk
and control mechanisms and its assessment in a project, process and at whole organisation
levels. pkn orlen is the first polish corporation (with the exception of the financial industry),
which has implemented a complex corporate risk management system and the applied solutions
are in line with the best practices in this area.

assessment of risk in a breakdown by business area is carried out at least once every year, as
part of the process of self-evaluation, and its purpose is to provide an update of the risks which
are most significant for the organisation. the process, risk and control owners are responsible for
its performance. the most significant element of the corporate risk management methodology


                                                120

applied involves the comparison of two risk assessments: gross risk assessment and net risk
assessment. gross assessment looks at the value of risk in the absence of control mechanisms
and preventive measures, while net assessment is the value of estimated risk taking into account
the efficacy of the control mechanisms and preventive measures for the specific risks that are in
place. this approach makes it possible to manage identified threats better, as well as to confirm
whether the strategies adopted to minimize them are accurate. as a result of periodic
assessment, plans of corrective actions are defined for the individual risks and controls, which
mainly aim to achieve an acceptable risk level. each risk assessment and control mechanism
testing process is completed with a report on the most significant risks and planned method of
their limitation, which is submitted to the management board members and the supervisory
board audit committee.

in 2016, the process of risk self-assessment and control mechanism testing was carried out in
pln orlen s.a. with the presence of the managerial staff, which allowed for updating the
assessment of 527 risks by testing 1251 control mechanisms in 83 business processes.

in 2016, two more key companies of the orlen group were covered by the erm system (anwil
orlen deutschland): orlen lietuva and unipetrol a.s.

as part of the implemented corporate risk model, all of the identified risks are classified on the
basis of the following categories:

      i. strategic risks – risks directly connected with the strategic goals, referring to specific
      actions and to the degree of their performance (a.k.a. kpis). for the purposes of detailed
      identification of strategic risks, partial strategies are created for the individual fields
      attributed to the appropriate owners, who perform quarterly risk assessments.

      ii. project risks – understood as uncertain events or circumstances which may have
      a negative impact on at least one project goal, if they occur. they are assessed on
      a systematic basis as implementation of the projects progresses, and in any case at least
      once a year as part of the self-assessment process.

      iii. process/operational risks – risks identified within the existing business processes,
      related directly to their key goals, making it possible to manage processes efficiently.
      these risks are assessed annually as part of the self-assessment process by the business
      areas, the main intention of which is to confirm the effectiveness of the control
      mechanisms used to keep the risk at the defined level.

risks and processes classification along with control mechanisms within the erm functioning:




                                                121

          risks/processes                                                                       risk description                                                                                                                                                            risk mitigation method


strategic


assumptions                            • inconsistent and unrealistic strategic goals and assumptions                                                                            systematic review of the key strategic goals to check if they are up to date and their ongoing monitoring against the changing environment (regulations, market, key suppliers, etc.)
                                       • change of strategic goals/assumptions during the process


division of competences                • inappropriate division of competences between the organisational units                                                                  high degree of employee specialization, appropriate assignment of duties and responsibilities by developing precise scopes of tasks.
                                       • no decision-making centre


internal consistency                   • lack of internal consistency between strategic goals within the organisation                                                            preparation of partial strategies for individual areas for the purpose of specific identification of strategic risks.
                                                                                                                                                                                 review and approval of the strategy by the management board.


new regulations                        • entry into force of unfavourable legal regulations                                                                                      participation in public consultations for legislative drafts reducing the risk of implementation of unfavourable regulations.
                                       • no effective action of the public administration in relation to enforcement of the law


accidents at work and other threats    • incomplete knowledge about work safety among contractors                                                                                supervision and management of contractors’ work by implementation of tools to monitor work safety.
                                       • threats to work safety and fire safety related to the presence of third-party employees on the orlen group’s premises                   implementation of uniform requirements for contractors and subcontractors in line with the guidelines set forth in the “orlen group safety standard no. 9”.


project


budget overrun                         • inappropriate estimate of the project implementation costs                                                                              systematic monitoring of the contractor’s activities. defining kpis with regard to deadlines, with delays entailing additional costs (penalties) for the supplier.


schedule overrun                       • inappropriate assumptions concerning the project completion time                                                                        constant supervision of inspectors over the performance of the work in progress, systematic evaluation of the progress of implementation of successive stages of the projects and enforcement of
                                                                                                                                                                                 performance of the work.


project scope modification             • incomplete performance of the project                                                                                                   systematic analysis of the environment in which the project is being implemented. depending on the circumstances arising, potential decisions may be made to change the scope of its
                                       • exceeding the project framework                                                                                                         implementation.


division of competences                • inappropriate division of competences between the organisational units                                                                  preparation and implementation of methodology concerning competency division of project team members in order to avoid conflict of interests. utilisation of dedicated it tool supporting project
                                       • no decision-making centre                                                                                                               implementation.


systems                                • absence of it systems supporting project implementation                                                                                 definition of alternative it systems at the project planning stage or commencement of testing of other systems allowing project implementation.


engineering/technology                 • limited market of technology providers                                                                                                  working with the licensor as partner if it is impossible to obtain technologies by way of a standard purchase.


weather conditions                     • bad weather conditions (unexpected or highly intense)                                                                                   planning the implementation of a part of the scope of the project works on the basis of historical analyses of weather trends, thus minimising the risk of impact of weather conditions on planned
                                                                                                                                                                                 activities.


process / operational


procurement


                                       • supplying crude oil (by land and by sea) in a quantity and of a quality not corresponding to the requirements                           monitoring of the process of supplies carried out by land and by sea. using dedicated analytical and statistical tools, analysing industry and news portals.
                                       • planning supplies in such a way as to meet the quality requirements related to the crude oil.                                           monitoring of the market for selected crude oil types with regard to their availability and value. confirmation of purchase profitability each time for transactions not covered by contracts.


                                       • purchase of investment services and biocomponents                                                                                       supplier selection process performed in line with the procedures in force and in accordance with the required documents (including market analysis, time schedule, supplier assessment).


                                       • guarantee of production continuity                                                                                                      making sure that internal procedures are in place making it possible to react effectively in the case of an emergency by way of purchasing services and raw materials for production directly.


production


                                       • inappropriate planning and management of repairs in the production area                                                                 functional it system supporting the repair planning process and maintenance at the production plant. changes to the plans being developed and the process of acceptance of the individual elements
                                                                                                                                                                                 of the plans are documented in the system.


                                       • operational inefficiency in the context of production supply chain balancing                                                            the area responsible for the production balancing process has tools in place making it possible to perform the balancing process in an optimum manner. the procedures and processes in place define
                                                                                                                                                                                 responsibility, scope and deadlines for the provision of input data for the production balancing process.


                                       • failure to achieve the assumed economic benefits resulting from the implementation of the initiatives                                   ongoing monitoring and verification of initiatives on the basis of expert knowledge, ensuring the realisation of projects with highest efficiency potential.


distribution and logistics


                                       • environmental pollution as a result of the distribution processes carried out                                                           periodic checking of contamination levels in oil terminals.


                                       • failure to comply with the requirements to physically maintain an appropriate level of mandatory stocks                                 systematic monitoring of stock levels with reports verifying the levels of the required minimum quantities.


                                       • failure of the logistics infrastructure affecting supply continuity as well as supply of products, or loss thereof                      periodic inspections of the condition of the logistic infrastructure, including updating of reports.


retail


                                       • inefficient process of contract conclusion and price negotiations                                                                       pricing policy setting forth the rules of collaboration with contracting parties and systemic mechanisms to prevent irregularities. acceptance of prices/discounts/payment terms in contracts before their
                                                                                                                                                                                 signing. checking the correctness of parameters of the contracts before entering them into the system and verifying customers’ purchasing potential.


                                       • failure to apply ethical standards and unfair conduct on the part of employees, fraud on company property and other violations          checking compliance with the ethical standards in place, as well as observance of the ethical code of conduct; checking for any signs pointing to violations of ethical standards or fraud.


                                       • failure of the pricing policy to maximize benefits and to develop market potential                                                      dedicated tools used to manage prices and to ensure the pursuit of an efficient and competitive pricing policy.
                                                                                                                                                                                 checking and monitoring whether changes in retail prices are entered correctly in the systems.


wholesale


                                       • readiness to react quickly with regard to the adjustment of sales plans in the case of changes to value and production chains           implementation of sales plans on the basis of volumes agreed with the customers as per the contract/order.

                                                                                                                                                                                 systematic checking of sales and production plan implementation with the participation of the wholesale area and of the supply chain management office.


                                       • inefficient process of negotiating terms and of concluding commercial contracts                                                         negotiation of trading conditions and signing agreements in accordance within the scope of the authority granted. provisions related to trading conditions are reviewed and consulted with other
                                                                                                                                                                                 organisational units.
                                                                                                                                                                                 formal process in place for the conclusion of contracts and for the issuing of opinions about them.


                                       • failure of the pricing policy to maximize benefits and to develop market potential                                                      price formulas approved by the area responsible for pricing policy development. additional review by the business responsible for product sale. in petrochemicals, a formal process is in place for the
                                                                                                                                                                                 negotiation of minimum.


          1
finance


                                       • commodity risk – related to changes in refinery and petrochemical margins generated from the sales of products, to the
                                       brent/ural differential, to prices of crude oil and products as well as to co2 emission allowances, and to the risk related to the
                                       prices of commodities in cash-and-carry arbitrage transactions

                                                                                                                                                                                 cash flow planning.
                                       • exchange rate risk – related to the currency exposure of cash inflows and outflows, investments, receivables and payables,              market risk management policy and hedging strategies defining the rules for measuring individual exposure, parameters and time horizon for the hedging against the specific risk, as well as the use of
                                       and assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies                                                                              hedging instruments.


                                       • interest rate risk – related to assets and liabilities held, for which the interest revenue and costs depend on variable interest
                                       ratesh


                                       • liquidity risk – related to an unexpected shortage of cash or lack of cash or access to sources of financing                            short- and long-term cash flow planning. policy for short-term liquidity management, defining the rules of reporting and consolidating liquidity of pkn orlen and orlen group companies. the group
                                                                                                                                                                                 pursues a policy of diversifying sources of financing and uses diversified tools for efficient liquidity management.


                                       • risk of loss of cash and deposits – risk of bankruptcy of domestic or foreign banks in which the orlen group keeps or invests           short-term credit rating of the bank. short-term liquidity management policy and policy of diversifying sources of financing as well as the use of a tool for efficient liquidity management.
                                       its cash


                                       • credit risk – related to the contracting parties’ failure to pay trade receivables                                                      analyses of contracting parties’ reliability and solvency.
                                                                                                                                                                                 management based on the procedures and policy adopted with regard to trade credit management and debt recovery.


applicable law and other regulations


                                       • amendments to existing legislation or new regulations significantly influencing the orlen group as well as its financial                monitoring changes in legislation at the level of the individual jurisdictions as well as active participation in legislative processes.
                                       position and business results

                                       the most important legislative acts regulating the functioning of the oil sector are the following:
                                       - act of 25 august 2006 on biocomponents and liquid biofuels (amended many times) – imposing the obligation on domestic
                                       refineries and fuel importers to meet what is referred to as the national index target, i.e. the obligation to ensure a minimum
                                       proportion of renewable fuels (biocomponents) in the total amount of liquid fuels.
                                       - act of 7 july 2016 amending the act on the goods and services tax and certain other acts (fuel package) and act of 22 july
                                       2016 amending the energy law and certain other acts (energy package), introducing a series of fundamental changes regulating
                                       the market of liquid fuels in poland, including new rules concerning vat settlements related to the imports of liquid fuels into
                                       poland, as well as closely linking the tax requirements to the licensing-related requirements in poland.
                                       - act of 30 november 2016 amending the energy law and certain other acts, introducing a schedule of deregulation of natural
                                       gas prices in poland, assuming that the prices will be deregulated for industrial consumers starting from 1 october 2017 and for
                                       households starting from 1 january 2024.- act amending the energy law and certain other acts, restoring by 2018 the system of
                                       certificate-based support for the generation of electricity in high-efficiency cogeneration. in the coming years, the orlen group
                                       is exposed to risks related to the number of certificates granted, to changes in the prices of the certificates, as well as to the risk
                                       of increase of costs of the substitute fees.
                                       - act amending the energy law and certain other acts, restoring by 2018 the system of certificate-based support for the
                                       generation of electricity in high-efficiency cogeneration. in the coming years, the orlen group is exposed to risks related to the
                                       number of certificates granted, to changes in the prices of the certificates, as well as to the risk of increase of costs of the
                                       substitute fees.
                                       - mandatory stocks – under the new regulations, producers and traders are obliged to pay what is referred to as a substitute fee
                                       in exchange for a gradual decrease of the obligation to physically maintain stocks. the change in the level of mandatory
                                       operational stocks is as follows: from 68 to 60 days in 2016, and to 53 days in 2017.


corporate management


                                       • insufficient it system security                                                                                                         a procedure in place in relation to the management of logical access to it systems, which includes for instance the authorization of requests to grant or modify rights to it systems, restricted access to
                                                                                                                                                                                 the os layer and databases as well as to the system hardware, and a complex level of password security.


                                       • inappropriately configured operational planning and supply chain optimization model favouring non-optimal business decisions            periodic analysis and an update of the model used for operational planning and daily monitoring of operating plan implementation by the supply chain management area. planning data used for
                                                                                                                                                                                 corporate planning and for operating activities are defined and provided using standardized forms in accordance with the work schedule.




                                                                                                                                                                                        122

1)
     point 7.3.5 of the consolidated financial statements for 2016.


effect of controls/risk response plans




the risk map shows the location of key risks for the organisation broken down by risk type, in
terms of:

           gross risk assessment − value of risk if no controls are applied,
           net risk assessment − value of risk taking into account the effectiveness of the existing
           controls designed to mitigate the impact and reduce the probability of risk materialisation.

if controls (risk management strategies) are applied, risk is reduced to acceptable levels.




                                                              123

opportunities
the vision for the growth of the orlen group fits well
with global trends in the use of energy sources (e.g.
use of crude oil, alternative fuels, energy storage),
technological progress (e.g. smart everything, internet
of everything, advanced robotics, 3d printing) and
social shifts (e.g. changing social behaviours,
urbanisation, demographics), which are bound to
create new consumer behaviours and expectations.




global changes have been gathering pace in recent years and will have a growing, yet
unpredictable, impact on the world around us. to respond to those processes, the orlen group
will consistently adapt its business model across all of its sectors:

1. integrated assets and strong market position of the
downstream sector
with integrated assets in three central european countries, 30 million tonnes of various crude oil
types processed every year, and a portfolio of over 50 refined and petrochemical products sold to


                                               124

more than 80 countries across the globe, the orlen group is perfectly placed to further expand
its downstream business.

key activities to be undertaken in the downstream sector over the period covered by the
2017−2021 strategy will be aimed at ensuring the security of feedstock supplies, further
improvements in operational excellence, and a strengthening of the group’s market position.

in the area of feedstock supply security, the orlen group will seek to diversify its oil supply
sources and secure natural gas supplies. it will, at the same time strive for greater integration,
more flexibility in how it responds to market and regulatory challenges, and increased yield of
high-margin products at its refineries in poland, the czech republic and lithuania. the growth of
its share in the home markets (e.g. through an attractive product portfolio) and the expansion of
the infrastructure which facilitates contact with customers have been identified as the two pillars
that will support the reinforcement of the group in its market position.

2. development of the product and service range and
high customer satisfaction in the retail sector
the retail sector comprises more than 2,700 service stations, making up the largest retail chain
in central europe. they handle 1.4 million transactions daily. in poland alone, they sell 6.6 billion
litres of fuel every year, with substantial volumes bought by customers actively participating in
the vitay loyalty scheme and fleet customers.

the key growth drivers in the retail sector are the modern service station network, unique
procurement experience, and further operational excellence improvement.

pkn orlen will develop its network of codo and dofo stations (nearly 200 new sites by 2021),
plans to introduce quality fuels, and preparations are underway to sell alternative fuels. the
orlen group is a regional pioneer in the installation of electric car quick charging points in
cooperation with tesla, a leading manufacturer of electric vehicles. by undertaking a number of
initiatives, the retail sector will transform to provide customers with a unique purchasing
experience. it plans to launch new products and services, leveraging its competitive advantages
and business experience (a large and dense network of service stations and a sizeable customer
base). in the coming years, pkn orlen intends to open upgraded stop cafe 2.0 catering outlets.
the concept was well received by customers and the extended product range promises a higher
non-fuel margin. tailored offers (based on big data) and the development of a loyalty scheme
will help to increase customer satisfaction. as part of its optimisation efforts, the orlen group
will implement a number of initiatives to cut costs and boost revenue (e.g. customer satisfaction
surveys, optimisation of land assets, optimisation of the network cost, more service stations with
premium fuels). another element of key importance to the sector is the implementation of
projects to support sales, as they are necessary to start many significant initiatives.

3. cautious continuation strategy in the upstream
sector
growth in the upstream sector over the last four years helped to build a solid asset portfolio. in
2014−2016, pkn orlen took a number of steps to increase its production potential in poland
(acquisition of two licences from deutsche erdoel ag, entering into a joint operating agreement



                                                 125

with pgnig, securing new licences from the ministry of the environment, and the acquisition of fx
energy) and canada (acquisition of the first canadian subsidiary trioil resources, followed by
two other transactions: the purchase of birchill exploration and kicking horse energy). the
orlen group has a strong asset base for value creation: production of 5 million boe in 2016, 2p
reserves of 114 million boe, and assets to effectively increase production and steadily improve
cost efficiency.

under the current 2017−2021 strategy, the orlen group will build its value in the upstream
sector based on cautious continuation of the current efforts, i.e. increasing production in poland
and canada and further improvements in operational excellence. the plans include growing
production volumes and 2p reserves, and a focus on the most profitable projects. challenges
posed by the prevailing low hydrocarbon prices are believed to be temporary and in the medium
term the prices are expected to show an upward trend again. the orlen group will closely watch
and flexibly respond to developments in the oil and gas markets. the consistent improvement in
key performance indicators (e.g. better well economics, optimised scope of work) and synergies
within the sector in poland and canada (e.g. transfer of know-how from canada, one of the most
technologically advanced oil and gas markets) are key elements for the operational excellence
improvement in the upstream sector.

4. innovations that create value
the orlen group’s innovation management model brings together all aspects of the group’s
strategy and the innovations themselves are understood to mean much more than just the
development and implementation of new products. special attention is paid to product, process
and marketing innovations. projects related to the current value chain are given key priority. the
orlen group offers its employees and innovators certain forms of support which are not readily
available elsewhere and can tip the scales for the commercial success of innovative projects –
from specialist laboratories up to a vast retail network. because of the role of intellectual capital
in the modern economy, strong focus is placed on the development of staff competencies. the
orlen group consistently builds a team of experts, especially in the area of r&d, and develops
a system to support leaders.

the innovation strategy relies on external and internal innovations supported by an advanced
management model. to stimulate external innovation, the orlen group carries out projects
facilitating cooperation as part of an external ecosystem of innovations, successful
implementation of state-of-the-art commercial solutions and the use of special tools for project
implementation (accelerator, crowdsourcing, innovation lab). internal innovations are efforts to
streamline technological and organisational processes, develop the portfolio of r&d projects, and
tap synergies within the orlen group.

the orlen group supports the culture of innovation to fully benefit from internal and external
innovations. innovation is promoted as the desired attitude across the organisation, and the fast-
track decision-making process for innovative projects ensures the continuing ability of the orlen
group to flexibly respond to market needs.




                                                 126

our strategy
strategy implementation in 2014-2016




with pkn orlen’s record-breaking performance and all-time high market
capitalisation, 2016 was an exceptional year for us. we are very pleased with
these results, and motivated to set more and more ambitious targets, as
evidenced by the group’s new strategy announced last year. the primary
strategic directions were outlined in response to the global challenges related to
alternative energy sources, technological progress and social changes. we intend
to further strengthen pkn orlen’s market position and pursue key growth-
oriented projects. this would not be possible but for our talented and fully
committed staff, as well as modern management culture. we will also seek to
foster innovation with a view to building a strong competitive position of both
pkn orlen and the polish economy in general.

                                                                  wojciech jasiński
                                               president of the management board




                                                127

a) summary of strategic activities in 2014−2016

over the past three years, pkn orlen has consistently delivered on its strategic objectives,
exceeding the annual average lifo-based ebitda target for 2014−2017 by pln 2.3bn, with the
actual figure averaging pln 7.4bn in 2014−2016. the stable financial position allowed the
company to put in motion growth projects and progressively increase dividend payouts, which
totalled pln 2.2bn in 2014−2016. at the same time, the financial ratios were kept at safe levels.
the robust financial performance was appreciated by the market – on november 21st 2016 pkn
orlen for the first time topped the list of the most valuable companies on the warsaw stock
exchange.

b) strategy implementation by segment in 2016




 downstream                                    retail                        upstream
 • record lifo-based ebitda: pln               • record ebitda: pln 1.8bn    • increase in total oil and
 8.1bn*                                        • increase in sales volumes   gas reserves (2p) to
 • high volumes of crude processed:            of 2.5% yoy, including 5.6%   114m boe
 30.1 million tonnes, and high sales           yoy in poland and 14.8% yoy   • 2016 average output
 volumes: 30.7 million tonnes                  in the czech republic         of 13.6 thousand boe/d
 • white products yield at the orlen           • improvement in fuel
 group at 78% and a nearly 1pp yoy             margins in the polish and
 reduction in energy intensity ratio           german markets
 • 8.1pp yoy growth of share in the            • completion of the process
 czech wholesale fuel market                   to rebrand bliska service
 following the acquisition of interest         stations to orlen (in the
 in česká rafinérská                           codo channel)
 • high production potential of the            • opening of 133 new
 orlen group refineries maintained,            catering outlets in poland
 despite increased scope of                    and the czech republic in
 maintenance shutdowns and                     2016
 emergency shut down of the                    • launch of stop cafe 2.0,
 kralupy refinery                              a new catering format
 • execution of a contract for the
 construction of a metathesis unit in
 płock
 *
  before impairment of non-current assets:
 pln 0.3bn in reversals of impairment losses
 on unipetrol’s refining assets.


downstream


                                                     128

value of the downstream sector (refining, petrochemicals, power generation) is created through
the extension of the integrated value chain, consistent development of the product portfolio, and
an increase in the conversion ratio. a number of development projects are being carried out to
increase the competitiveness of the sector. in 2016, unipetrol started the construction of a new
polyethylene unit (pe3) at the litvínov plant in the czech republic; the new unit will be one of
europe’s most advanced facilities of this kind. pkn orlen continued to pursue two large power
generation projects: construction of the 463 mwe ccgt plant in włocławek and construction of
the 596 mwe ccgt unit in płock, both aimed to bring benefits from industrial cogeneration.
another milestone in the downstream sector was the supervisory board’s approval of the
construction of an advanced metathesis unit in płock.

value creation initiatives undertaken in the downstream sector added to achievement of a lifo-
based ebitda of pln 8.1bn in 2016, with a capex of pln 3.5bn allocated to the sector in 2016.

retail
value creation in the retail segment is achieved through the development of a network of
modern codo service stations, the development of the dofo channel, as well as growth in fuel
sales in the group’s home markets (poland, the czech republic, lithuania, germany) and higher
non-fuel sales. by the end of 2016, the orlen group operated a network of 2,726 service
stations, which posted a 2.5% year-on-year increase in sales volumes.

a range of initiatives were undertaken in the retail segment, including the launch of new
products and services and the implementation of a new catering format called stop cafe 2.0. in
the czech republic, further growth was observed in fuel sales volumes (incorporation of 20 out of
the 68 stations acquired from omv in 2015), as well as in non-fuel sales (37 new stop cafe
outlets).

value creation initiatives in the retail segment contributed to the segment’s ebitda of pln
1.8bn. the capex allocated to the segment amounted to pln 0.5bn.

upstream
in 2016, the orlen group continued to restructure its portfolio of assets in poland, this process
included the acquisition of new areas for exploration (poręba – tarnawa licence, skołyszyn
licence, edge area) and the abandonment of less promising licence areas (further exploration
work to focus only on selected areas of lublin shale, karbon, mid poland unconventionals, and
karpaty projects).

furthermore, the orlen group, via its subsidiary orlen upstream canada, conducts production
operations in the alberta province in canada, using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing
technologies. in 2016, a gas treatment system was placed in service in the ferrier/strachan area.
the orlen group also holds production assets in new brunswick and a share in a project to
construct the goldboro lng terminal.

the orlen group has oil and gas 2p reserves totalling 114m boe, and its average daily output in
2016 was 13,600 boe, with the average daily production in q4 2016 reaching 13,900 boe.

c) key success factors of the 2014–2017 strategy



                                               129

orlen group’s ebitda − ebit before depreciation and amortisation
net financial leverage − net debt to equity ratio (based on average values in the period) x
100%
net debt – long-term borrowings + short-term borrowings - cash and cash equivalents
share of the polish fuel market − the ratio of the volume of fuels (petrol, diesel oils and
light fuel oils) sold by pkn orlen to the total volume sold on the market
olefins production capacity utilisation – the ratio of theoretical production capacities to
actual output
olefin unit − steam cracking unit, where at a high temperature, in the presence of steam,
alkanes (saturated hydrocarbons with single bonds only between carbon atoms) are
transformed into alkenes (hydrocarbons with one carbon-carbon double bond). alkenes are
classified as olefins, which have given the unit its name. the process consists of
transforming ethane, propane, butane and lower gasoline fractions (or even heavy fuel oil
and hydrocracking residuum) mainly into ethene (commonly known as ethylene) and
propene (propylene). the by-products are post-pyrolysis fractions: c4, post-pyrolysis
gasoline and post-pyrolysis oil. ethylene and propylene may be used later in various
processes to manufacture a wide array of products, from polyolefins (polyethylene and
polypropylene), to various plastics, to pvc (polyvinyl chloride) or glycol (antifreeze liquids).
refining capacity utilisation − the ratio of processing capacities of a refinery to actual
throughput
crude processing at the orlen group − total volume of crude oil processed by the orlen
group’s refineries
fuel yield – aggregate medium and light distillate yields
share of fuel sales in home markets − volume of fuels sold by the orlen group at service
stations in poland, germany and lithuania
sales per service station − average sales of fuels and non-fuel products and services
(shops and food services) per service station
hydrocarbon production − total volume of hydrocarbons (including natural gas, crude oil,
condensate and the other liquid hydrocarbons – ethane, propane and butane) produced
from fields and treated to the extent that enabled them to be transported and sold
hydrocarbon reserves − those quantities of petroleum anticipated to be commercially
recoverable through the application of development projects to known accumulations from
a given date set under defined conditions. reserves must further satisfy four criteria: they
must be discovered, recoverable, commercial, and remaining (as of the evaluation date)
based on the development project(s) applied. reserves are further categorised in
accordance with the level of certainty associated with the estimates and may be sub-
classified based on project maturity and/or characterised by development and production
status




                                           130

                                                                                actual                   actual                 actual
                                                                             performance              performance            performance
                                                               unit            in 2014                  in 2015                in 2016



financial kpis


lifo-based ebitda (before impairment losses)                  plnbn                           5,2                      8,7           9,4


downstream                                                    plnbn                           4,2                      7,8           8,1


retail                                                        plnbn                           1,4                      1,5           1,8


upstream                                                      plnbn                           0,2                      0.0           0,3


financial leverage                                               %                          33.0                      28,1          11,5


net debt/ebitda lifo (before impairment losses)                  x                          1,29                      0.73          0,35


kpis − downstream



share of polish fuel market1                                     %                             61                      58             55



refining capacity utilisation                                    %                             84                      90             86


olefins production capacity utilisation                          %                             83                      74             47


crude processing at the orlen group                        million tonnes                   27,3                      30,9          30,1


fuel yield at pkn orlen                                          %                          76,9                      79.0          79.0


kpis − retail



share of fuel sales in home markets1                             %                          14,4                      14,5          14,7



sales per service station                                  million litres                     3,8                      3,6           3,8


                                                      1
number of service stations effectively in operation              x                         2 566                 2 612             2 673



kpis − upstream


hydrocarbon production                                    million boe/year                    2,1                      2.6           5.0


hydrocarbon reserves                                        million boe                        50                      98            114


number of new wells (net share)                                  x                          24,7                      12.6          18.1


                                                                             1)
                                                                                  data as at the end of the period.




                                                                       131

2017−2021 strategy
pillars of the strategy for 2017−2021
the vision for growth set out in the new strategy fits well with global trends in energy sources,
technological progress and social shifts, which are bound to create new consumer behaviours and
expectations. pkn orlen aims to focus on solidifying its market position, becoming more
customer-oriented, exploiting the integrated value chain, with a growing role of the
petrochemical business, and cautious continuation of upstream projects. strong focus on
innovation with value-creating potential is another vital element of the strategy.


                    integrated assets and strong market     • security of raw materials supplies
                    position                                • operational excellence
                    of the downstream segment               • effective sales strategy


                    development of the product and
                                                            • modern service station network
                    service range
                                                            • unique purchasing experience
                    and high customer satisfaction in the
                                                            • operational excellence
                    retail segment


                    cautious continuation strategy          • increased production in poland and canada
                    in the upstream sector                  • cautious continuation


                    solid foundations                       • investment-grade rating
                                                            • financial leverage below 30%


                    secured financing                       • diversified financing sources
                                                            • non-organic growth opportunities


                    dividend paid                           • consistent growth of dividend per share
                                                            • dividend amount dependent on financial
                                                            position


                    innovations that create value           • culture of innovation
                                                            • internal and external innovations


                    focus on safety and the environment     • no accidents at work
                                                            • process safety
                                                            • care for the natural environment


                    actions motivated by orlen’s core       • responsibility
                    values                                  • development
                                                            • people
                                                            • energy
                                                            • reliability




                                                     132

key financial and operating targets for 2017−2018
the rapidly changing market environment will drive the company to adjust its planning horizon.
consequently, its goals and aspirations are presented differently in the new strategy. the time
horizon for strategic directions is five years, but specific financial and operating targets cover
only 2017 and 2018 given the strong volatility of the macro environment.

key objectives of the pkn orlen strategy for 2017−2018:

      annual average lifo-based ebitda of pln 8.8bn
      annual average capital expenditure of pln 5.4bn
      financial leverage maintained below 30%
      stable growth of the dividend per share




                                                133

134

strategic assumptions by segment




1)
     quantitative indicators pertain to the 2018 target relative to 2016.
2)
     2016 ebitda and capital expenditure are based on forecast performance in 2016, as specified in the strategy of the
orlen group which was presented on december 16th 2016.
3)
     of which, 2016 − poland: pln 0.2bn, canada: pln 0,4bn; 2017−2018 average − poland pln 0.4bn, canada: pln 0.4bn.




                                                               135

implementation of investment projects
capital expenditure by segment [plnm]                                                                                       capital
expenditure by market [%]




major investment projects pursued in 2016 included:



                              • construction of ccgts with related auxiliary infrastructure in włocławek and płock,
                                           • construction of new polyethylene unit (pe3) in litvínov,
                                                   • construction of metathesis unit in płock.




                         • launch of 70 service stations (including codo stations: 35 in poland, 10 in germany and 25 in the czech republic),
                  • upgrade and rebranding of 67 service stations (including codo stations: 50 in poland, 11 in the czech republic and 6 in germany),
                              • opening of 133 new stop cafes, stop cafe bistros and stop cafes 2.0 in poland and the czech republic.




                                              • canada – pln 344m / poland – pln 181m.




assessment of project implementation

the orlen group manages its capex structure taking into account the market environment, and
focuses on the most effective investment projects.
the orlen group has a stable financial position and sufficient cash flows and available financing
sources to implement its investment plans.




                                                                     136

monitoring of the strategy implementation
monitoring of the strategy is ensured through a uniform
system of regular monitoring of the progress in its
implementation.
having approved the strategy, we carried out the process of its operationalisation, which
consisted of precisely defining the projects, initiatives and specific quantity targets as detailed
targets for individual organisational units in each segment and business area. approved detailed
targets set under each kpi, which are of key importance to attaining the objectives outlined in the
strategy, will ensure the effective monitoring of our strategic initiatives.

operationalisation of the strategy is of particular importance as it ensures:

      clear communication of the management board’s expectations – thus ensuring the
      implementation of the strategy at all levels of the organisation, in all segments and areas
      of the group,
      involvement of all management staff in implementing the objectives, in line with the
      strategy and the adopted corporate values.


                                      monitoring measures                       forum



 review of the strategy         • review of implementation of           management
                                strategic objectives (kpis and          board/supervisory board
                                projects)
                                • review of strategic assumptions
                                • review of the company’s
                                activities and the macro
                                environment


 partial                        • review of execution of the            corporate strategy
 strategies/strategic           strategic projects and achievement      committee
 projects                       of kpis across segments


 day-to-day business            • review of the kpis of key             key managers
                                importance to the strategy’s
                                success




                                                137

market outlook in 2017
expected macroeconomic environment

     2017 gdp forecast: 3.6% in poland, 2.9% in the czech republic, 1.5% in germany, 2.4% in
     lithuania.
     brent crude price – crude oil price in the base case scenario is expected to grow relative to
     the average price in 2016, driven by higher demand and the largest producers’
     arrangements to reduce the supply.
     model downstream margin – forecast decline in annual average margin compared with
     2016, primarily as a result of lower year-on-year margins on petrochemical products.
     despite the projected decrease, high margin levels are expected, supported by the
     favourable macro climate, i.e. low crude prices and higher fuel and petrochemical product
     consumption.

expected market trends

     expected increase in demand for fuel, both petrol and diesel oil, in poland, the czech
     republic and the baltic states, stabilisation of demand in germany.

legislative changes

     grey market for fuel − implementation of solutions to curb grey market: fuel package (as of
     august 1st 2016), energy package (as of end of q1 2017), transport package (planned
     launch in q2 2017).
     emergency stocks – gradual reduction of emergency stocks from the equivalent of 60 days
     to the equivalent of 53 days in 2017 (approximately 0.3m tonnes) and, in consequence,
     lower working capital.
     nit – in 2017, the nit in poland will remain unchanged at 7.1%. the nit for pkn orlen will
     be reduced to 5.822%.
     turnover tax – work is underway to introduce a tax on retail turnover, including at service
     stations.

investments of the orlen group




                                               138

                                       major growth projects in 2017:




                                         • construction of new polyethylene unit (pe3) in litvínov.
                                    • construction of ccgt and related auxiliary infrastructure in płock.
                                                 • construction of metathesis unit in płock.




                                                   • construction of new service stations.
                                 • incorporation of 40 omv stations into the network in the czech republic.
                                       • upgrade of the stations and development of non-fuel offering.




                                • continuation of exploration and production projects in poland and canada.
                                            • capital expenditure − canada: 50%, poland: 50%.




scheduled maintenance shutdowns at the orlen group in 2017:

     pkn orlen: drw iii, hydrocracking, hog, reforming, px/pta.
     orlen lietuva group: fkk, hydrogen production plant, visbreaking.
     unipetrol group: visbreaking (litvínov), hydrocracking (litvínov), hon (kralupy).
     anwil: pvc.
     bop: polyethylene/polypropylene.




                                                   139

financial results
management's discussion and analysis of 2016
financial results




in 2016, pkn orlen posted record-high financial results, with contributions from
all segments. consistent implementation of key investment projects, successful
efforts to tackle grey market for fuels, and supportive (although not as favourable
as in 2015) macroeconomic environment, translated into outstanding cash flows.
with our pursuit of growth-oriented projects, the orlen group’s competitive
position is consolidating, making us perfectly placed to face future challenges
and achieve further strategic objectives.

                                                             sławomir jędrzejczyk
                  vice president of the management board, chief financial officer
                                                                   (to 06/30/2017)




                                               140

in 2016, the orlen group generated revenue of pln 80bn. the year-on-year decline reflects
falling prices of key orlen products, affected by the downward trend in crude oil prices.
sales volumes totalled 39.5 million tonnes, having improved across all segments.

in 2016, the orlen group once again posted record-high lifo-based ebitda of pln 9,412m,
before impairment losses on property, plant and equipment1. the realised profit was higher by
pln 674m year on year.




the negative impact of macroeconomic factors, including in particular lower fuel margins,
amounted to pln (631)m yoy, with the positive impact of the brent/urals differential,
petrochemical product margins, and the depreciation of pln against usd and eur.

the negative volume-related effect of pln (880)m, reported despite higher sales volumes, was
mainly attributable to lower sales of high-margin petrochemical products by the unipetrol group,
due to the unavailability (until november 2016) of the ethylene production unit following its
failure in august 2015.

the positive impact of the other factors amounted to pln 2,185m year on year, including mainly:

     pln 1,157m (yoy) − no negative effect of accounting for the repurchase of the 5th and 6th
     tranche of emergency stocks in 2015.
     pln 1,252m (y/y) − positive change in net other income (expenses) after factoring out
     impairment losses on assets, resulting mainly from the recognition of income from
     compensation of pln 1,280m paid by insurers in respect of the failure of the unipetrol
     group’s ethylene production unit in 2015.

after accounting for impairment losses on non-current assets1, the orlen group’s lifo-based
ebitda in 2016 amounted to pln 9,557m.
the positive effect of changes in crude oil prices on the valuation of inventories was pln 85m,
raising the orlen group’s ebitda to pln 9,642m in 2016.
after accounting for finance costs and taxes, the orlen group posted a net profit of pln 5,740m
for 2016, up pln 2,507m year on year.




                                              141

1)
     in 2016, reversal of net impairment losses on property, plant and equipment amounted to pln 145m and was chiefly
the result of reversal of impairment loss on the unipetrol group’s refining assets of pln 316m in 2016 and recognition of
impairment losses of pln (73) m on the orlen upstream group’s exploration assets in poland and pln (55) m on orlen
oil’s assets.

in 2015, net impairment losses on property, plant and equipment amounted to pln (993) m and comprised mainly
impairment losses of pln (429) m on the orlen upstream group’s exploration assets in poland, pln (423) m on
production assets in canada, and pln (93) m on the unipetrol group’s petrochemical assets due to the fire accident at the
ethylene plant in august 2015.




orlen group’s performance by segment

the orlen group operates in three major business segments. corporate functions provide
support for business processes performed within the segments.




orlen group’s capital expenditure.

the orlen group allocated pln 4,673m for the 2016 investment programme.

capital expenditure by segment [plnm]                                                           capital expenditure
by market [%]




                                                           142

major investment projects pursued in 2016 included:



                        • construction of ccgts with related auxiliary infrastructure in włocławek and płock,
                                     • construction of a new polyethylene unit (pe3) in litvínov,
                                            • construction of a metathesis unit in płock.




                        • launch of 70 service stations (including codo stations: 35 in poland, 10 in germany and 25 in the czech republic),
                 • upgrade and rebranding of 67 service stations (including codo stations: 50 in poland, 11 in the czech republic and 6 in germany),
                             • opening of 133 new stop cafes, stop cafe bistros and stop cafes 2.0 in poland and the czech republic.




                   • exploration and production projects in poland and canada aimed at increasing the company’s crude oil and gas reserves.




                                                                    143

consolidated financial statements
1. consolidated statement of profit or
loss and other comprehensive income




                       144

                                                                                                                                                  change       change
                                                                                                                                                   (y/y)        (y/y)
                                                                                                             note       2016         2015          value          %



sales revenues                                                                                                   6.2     79 553       88 336       (8 783)        (9.9)
                                                                                                               7.1.1
                                                                                                               7.1.2


revenues from sales of finished goods and services                                                                       57 775       68 768      (10 993)       (16.0)


revenues from sales of merchandise and raw materials                                                                     21 778       19 568         2 210         11.3


cost of sales                                                                                                  7.1.3    (68 223)     (77 792)        9 569         12.3


cost of finished goods and services sold                                                                                (47 976)     (59 489)       11 513         19.4


cost of merchandise and raw materials sold                                                                              (20 247)     (18 303)      (1 944)       (10.6)


gross profit on sales                                                                                                    11 330       10 544          786           7.5


distribution expenses                                                                                                    (4 125)      (3 971)        (154)        (3.9)


administrative expenses                                                                                                  (1 426)      (1 552)         126           8.1


other operating income                                                                                         7.1.4      2 163          420         1 743        415.0


other operating expenses                                                                                       7.1.5      (707)       (1 354)         647          47.8


share in profit from investments accounted for under equity method                                               9.3        297          253           44          17.4


profit from operations                                                                                                    7 532        4 340         3 192         73.5


finance income                                                                                                7.1.6.1       248          390         (142)       (36.4)


finance costs                                                                                                 7.1.6.2     (893)       (1 032)         139          13.5


net finance income and costs                                                                                              (645)        (642)           (3)        (0.5)


profit before tax                                                                                                         6 887        3 698         3 189         86.2


tax expense                                                                                                    7.1.7     (1 147)       (465)         (682)      (146.7)


current tax                                                                                                               (751)        (310)         (441)      (142.3)


deferred tax                                                                                                              (396)        (155)         (241)      (155.5)



net profit                                                                                                                5 740        3 233         2 507         77.5



other comprehensive income:


which will not be reclassified into profit or loss                                                                             (4)           3         (7)              -


fair value measurement of investment property as at the date of reclassification                                                6             -            6            -


actuarial gains and losses                                                                                                  (10)             4        (14)              -


deferred tax                                                                                                                     -          (1)            1            -


which will be reclassified into profit or loss                                                                              221        1 327       (1 106)       (83.3)


hedging instruments                                                                                           7.2.7.3     (396)        1 530       (1 926)              -


exchange differences on translating foreign operations                                                                      542             88        454         515.9


deferred tax                                                                                                  7.1.7.2          75      (291)          366               -
                                                                                                              7.2.7.3


                                                                                                                            217        1 330       (1 113)       (83.7)



total net comprehensive income                                                                                            5 957        4 563         1 394         30.6



net profit attributable to                                                                                                5 740        3 233         2 507         77.5


equity owners of the parent                                                                                               5 261        2 837         2 424         85.4


non-controlling interest                                                                                                    479          396           83          21.0


total net comprehensive income attributable to                                                                            5 957        4 563         1 394         30.6


equity owners of the parent                                                                                               5 445        4 107         1 338         32.6


non-controlling interest                                                                                                    512          456           56          12.3


net profit and diluted net profit per share attributable to equity owners of the parent (in pln per share)                12.30         6.63          5.67         85.5




                                                                                                                    145

total sales volume amounted to 39.5 million tons in 2016 and was higher by 2.0% (y/y). lower
sales revenues by (9.9)% (y/y) resulted from cheaper crude oil and the effect listing of the group
products.

positive change in the balance of other net operating activities amounted to pln 1,456 million
and mainly related to the recognition of compensation from insurers due to the steam cracker
unit accident in unipetrol group in the amount of pln 1,280 million, and positive impact of net
reversal of impairment allowances of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the
amount pln 145 million.

detailed information is presented in note 7.1.4, 7.1.5 and 7.2.4.

net finance costs for 2016 amounted to pln (645) million and include mainly pln (542) million
net foreign exchange losses.

detailed information is presented in note 7.1.6.

2. consolidated statement of financial position




                                                146

                                                                                        change     change
                                                                                         (y/y)      (y/y)
                                                 note        31/12/2016    31/12/2015    value        %



assets


non-current assets


property, plant and equipment                      7.2.1          27 671       24 536      3 135       12.8


intangible assets                                  7.2.2           1 377        1 298        79         6.1


investments accounted for under equity method        9.3            763          774        (11)      (1.4)


deferred tax assets                               7.1.7.2           167          365       (198)     (54.2)


embedded derivatives and hedging instruments       7.2.8             66          135        (69)     (51.1)


other assets                                       7.2.8            277          254         23         9.1


                                                                  30 321       27 362      2 959       10.8


current assets


inventories                                       7.2.5.1         11 182       10 715       467         4.4


trade and other receivables                       7.2.5.2          8 553        6 597      1 956       29.7


current tax assets                                                  121           44         77       175.0


cash and cash equivalents                                          5 072        2 348      2 724      116.0


non-current assets classified as held for sale                       61           97        (36)     (37.1)


embedded derivatives and hedging instruments       7.2.8             97          806       (709)     (88.0)


other assets                                       7.2.8            152          168        (16)      (9.5)


                                                                  25 238       20 775      4 463       21.5



total assets                                                      55 559       48 137      7 422       15.4




                                                            147

                                                                                                change       change
                                                                                                 (y/y)        (y/y)
                                                         note       31/12/2016   31/12/2015      value          %



equity and liabilities


equity


share capital                                             7.2.7.1        1 058          1 058            -            -


share premium                                             7.2.7.2        1 227          1 227            -            -


hedging reserve                                           7.2.7.3        (355)           (80)      (275)        343.8


revaluation reserve                                                         5               -            5            -


exchange differences on translating foreign operations                    946            537        409          76.2


retained earnings                                         7.2.7.4       23 882         19 431      4 451         22.9


equity attributable to owners of the parent                             26 763         22 173      4 590         20.7


non-controlling interests                                 7.2.7.5        2 522          2 071       451          21.8


total equity                                                            29 285         24 244      5 041         20.8


liabilities


non-current liabilities


loans, borrowings and bonds                               7.2.6.1        7 446          8 131      (685)        (8.4)


provisions                                                 7.2.9          828            710        118          16.6


deferred tax liabilities                                  7.1.7.2         809            674        135          20.0


embedded derivatives and hedging instruments               7.2.8          280            239         41          17.2


other liabilities                                          7.2.8          289            473       (184)       (38.9)


                                                                         9 652         10 227      (575)        (5.6)


current liabilities


trade and other liabilities                               7.2.5.3       13 591         10 658      2 933         27.5


loans and borrowings                                      7.2.6.1         989           1 027       (38)        (3.7)


provisions                                                 7.2.9          666            749        (83)       (11.1)


current tax liabilities                                                   659            162        497         306.8


embedded derivatives and hedging instruments               7.2.8          403            767       (364)       (47.5)


other liabilities                                          7.2.8          314            303         11           3.6


                                                                        16 622         13 666      2 956         21.6


total liabilities                                                       26 274         23 893      2 381         10.0



total equity and liabilities                                            55 559         48 137      7 422         15.4




                                                                                 148

as at 31 december 2016, the value of non-current assets was higher by pln 2,959 million (y/y)
mainly due to increase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the amount of
pln 3,214 million, which includes mainly investment expenditures in the amount of pln 4,673
million, depreciation and amortization in the amount of pln (2,110) million, the positive impact of
decrease of net impairment allowances of assets in the amount of pln 145 million and exchange
differences from recalculation of balances of foreign entities of the group in the amount of pln
481 million.

as at 31 december 2016 current assets increased by pln 4,463 million (y/y), mainly as result of
an increase in the balance of cash and cash equivalents by pln 2,724 million as well as trade and
other receivables in the amount of pln 1,956 million and changes by pln (709) million of
valuation of cash flows hedging instruments.

as at 31 december 2016, total equity amounted to pln 29,285 million and was higher by pln
5,041 million (y/y), mainly as a result of net profit for 2016 in the amount of pln 5,740 million
and the distribution of the net profit for 2015, and the allocation of the dividend for the
shareholders of the parent company in the amount of pln (855) million.

as at 31 december 2016, net debt of orlen group amounted to pln 3,363 million and was lower
by pln (3,447) (y/y). detailed information included in note 7.2.6.

3. consolidated statement of changes in equity




                                               149

                                         equity attributable to owners of the parent



                                  share      hedging    revalu     exchange     retained       total          non-        total
                                  capital    reserve     ation    differences   earnings                   controlling   equity
                                    and                 reserv         on                                   interests
                                   share                   e      translating
                                 premium                            foreign
                                                                  operations


note                               7.2.7.1    7.2.7.3                             7.2.7.4                     7.2.7.5
                                   7.2.7.2


01/01/2016                          2 285        (80)        -           537      19 431       22 173           2 071     24 244


net profit                               -          -        -              -       5 261       5 261             479      5 740


items of other comprehensive             -      (275)       5            463           (9)       184               33        217
income


total net comprehensive                  -      (275)       5            463        5 252       5 445             512      5 957
income


change in structure                      -          -        -           (54)          54              -           (1)        (1)


buy out non-controlling                  -          -        -              -          (1)        (1)              (1)
interest


merger/sale of related parties           -          -        -           (54)          55          1                 -            1


dividends                                -          -        -              -       (855)       (855)            (60)       (915)



31/12/2016                          2 285       (355)       5            946      23 882       26 763           2 522     29 285



01/01/2015                          2 285     (1 319)        -           509      17 296       18 771           1 615     20 386


net profit                               -          -        -              -       2 837       2 837             396      3 233


items of other comprehensive             -     1 239         -            28               3    1 270              60      1 330
income


total net comprehensive                  -     1 239         -            28        2 840       4 107             456      4 563
income


change in the structure of               -          -        -              -              1       1                 -            1
non-controlling interest


dividends                                -          -        -              -       (706)       (706)                -      (706)



31/12/2015                          2 285        (80)        -           537      19 431       22 173           2 071     24 244




                                                            150

4. consolidated statement of cash flows




                     151

                                                                                                          value (r/r)   value (r/r)
                                                                     note       2016         2015           value           %



cash flows from operating activities


profit before tax                                                                 6 887        3 698           3 189          86.2


adjustments for:


share in profit from investments accounted for under equity method       9.3      (297)        (253)             (44)        (17.4)


depreciation and amortisation                                          7.1.3      2 110        1 895             215          11.4


foreign exchange loss                                                 7.1.6.4      287              24           263       1 095.8


interest, net                                                         7.1.6.3      219          199               20          10.1


dividends                                                                              (5)          (2)           (3)      (150.0)


(profit)/loss on investing activities, incl.:                                     (299)        1 106         (1 405)              -


recognition/(reversal) of impairment allowances of property,           7.1.4      (145)         993          (1 138)              -
plant and equipment and intangible assets                              7.1.5
                                                                       7.2.4


change in provisions                                                   7.2.9       330          463            (133)         (28.7)


change in working capital                                              7.2.5       816       (1 320)           2 136              -


  inventories                                                                     (287)        (655)             368          56.2


  receivables                                                                   (1 679)        1 258         (2 937)              -


  liabilities                                                                     2 782      (1 923)           4 705              -


other adjustments, incl.:                                                         (381)        (252)           (129)         (51.2)


compensation from insurers due to unipetrol group                     7.2.5.2     (222)               -        (222)              -


income tax (paid)                                                     7.1.7.3     (336)        (204)           (132)         (64.7)



net cash from operating activities                                                9 331        5 354           3 977          74.3



cash flows from investing activities


acquisition of property, plant and equipment,                                   (5 033)      (3 079)         (1 954)         (63.5)
intangible assets and perpetual usufruct of land


acquisition of shares adjusted for received cash                                       (2)   (1 195)           1 193          99.8


disposal of property, plant and equipment,                                         141          131               10           7.6
intangible assets and perpetual usufruct of land


sale of subsidiary                                                                     77             -           77              -


dividends received                                                                 317          192              125          65.1


other                                                                                  64      (145)             209              -



net cash (used) in investing activities                                         (4 436)      (4 096)           (340)          (8.3)



cash flows from financing activities


proceeds from loans and borrowings received                                       3 586        1 896           1 690          89.1


bonds issued                                                                      3 258               -        3 258              -


repayments of loans and borrowings                                              (7 943)      (3 771)         (4 172)       (110.6)


interest paid                                                         7.1.6.3     (223)        (258)              35          13.6


dividends paid                                                                    (912)        (706)           (206)         (29.2)


  equity owners of the parent                                         7.2.7.7     (855)        (706)           (149)         (21.1)


  non-controlling interest                                                         (57)               -          (57)             -


payments of liabilities under finance lease agreements                             (28)         (28)                -             -


other                                                                                  52            1            51       5 100.0



net cash (used) in financing activities                                         (2 210)      (2 866)             656          22.9



net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                              2 685      (1 608)           4 293              -


effect of exchange rate changes                                                        39           19            20         105.3


cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period                                2 348        3 937         (1 589)         (40.4)



cash and cash equivalents, end of the period                                      5 072        2 348           2 724         116.0




                                                                                                                    152

proceeds of net cash from operating activities for 2016 amounted to pln 9,331 million and
comprised mainly profit from operations increased by depreciation and amortisation in the
amount of pln 9,642 million and the positive impact of decrease in a net working capital of pln
816 million decreased by share in financial result from investments accounted for under equity
method of pln (297) million, impairment allowance of property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets in the amount of pln (145) million and paid income taxes in the amount of pln
(336) million and other adjustments in the amount of pln (381) million.

net cash used in investing activities for 2016 amounted to pln (4,436) million and comprised
mainly net expenses for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and
perpetual usufruct of land of pln (4,892) million and inflows from the received dividends and sale
of orlen transport in the amount of pln 317 million and of pln 74 million, respectively.

net expenses of cash used in financing activities for 2016 amounted to pln (2,210) million and
comprised mainly the net repayment of loans and borrowings of pln (4,357) million, proceeds of
the bond issue in the amount of pln 3,258 million, paid dividends in the amount of pln (912)
million including amount for equity owners of the parent company of pln (855) million and
interest paid in the amount of pln (223) million.




                                               153

basic information
5.1. principal activity of the orlen group
5.2. principles of preparation of financial statements
5.3. functional currency and presentation currency of financial statements and methods applied
to translation of financial data for consolidation purposes
5.4. accounting principles
5.5. impact of ifrs amendments and interpretations on consolidated financial statements of the
orlen group

5.1. principal activity of the orlen group
polski koncern naftowy orlen spółka akcyjna seated in płock, 7 chemików street (“company”,
“pkn orlen”, “issuer”, “parent company”) was founded by incorporation of petrochemia płock
s.a. with centrala produktów naftowych s.a., on 7 september 1999.

pkn orlen along with the entities forming the capital group of polski koncern naftowy orlen
s.a. (“orlen group”, “group”) is one of the biggest and most modern fuel and power companies
in central europe, operating on the polish, lithuanian, czech and german market. the group also
possesses entities located in malta, sweden, the netherlands, slovakia, hungary, estonia, latvia,
usa and canada.

the core business of the orlen group is crude oil processing, production of fuel, petrochemical
and chemical goods, as well as, retail and wholesale of fuel products. the orlen group conducts
also exploration, recognition and extraction of hydrocarbons, and generates, distributes and
trades of electricity and heat.

the activity of the orlen group companies is also service-related activity: storage of crude oil
and fuels, transportation, maintenance and overhaul services, laboratory, security, design,
administrative, insurance and financial services. additional information is presented in note 9.1.

since 26 november 1999 pkn orlen shares are quoted on the main market of the warsaw stock
exchange (wse) in the continuous trading system.

one of the subsidiaries of pkn orlen – unipetrol a.s. is also present on the capital market. the
shares are listed on the stock exchange in prague.

5.2. principles of preparation of financial
statements
the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles contained in the international financial reporting standards (ifrs), comprising
international accounting standards (ias) as well as interpretations of standing interpretation
committee (sic) and the international financial reporting standards interpretations committee
(ifric), which were adopted by the european union (eu) and entered in force till the end 2016.
the group adopted all iass and ifrss in accordance with their effective date.

the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except
derivatives, financial assets available for sale and investment properties, which have been
measured at fair value. the foregoing financial statements have been prepared using the accrual


                                                154

basis of accounting except from the consolidated financial statement of cash flows.

the scope of consolidated financial statements is compliant with minister of finance regulation of
19 february 2009 on current and periodic information provided by issuers of securities and
conditions for recognition as equivalent information required by the law of a non-member state
(uniform text: official journal 2014, item 133, as amended official journal 2016, item 860)
(“regulation”)and covers the annual period from 1 january to 31 december 2016 and the
comparative period from 1 january to 31 december 2015.

presented consolidated financial statements present a true and fair view of the orlen group’s
financial position as at 31 december 2016, results of its operations and cash flows for the year
ended 31 december 2016.

the consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the orlen group will
continue to operate as a going concern in the foreseeable future. as at the date of approval of
these consolidated financial statements, there is no evidence indicating that the orlen group
will not be able to continue its operations as a going concern. duration of the parent company
and the entities comprising the orlen group is unlimited.

5.3. functional currency and presentation
currency of financial statements and methods
applied to translation of financial data for
consolidation purposes
the functional currency of the parent company and presentation currency of the foregoing
consolidated financial statements is polish złoty (pln). the data in the consolidated financial
statements is presented in pln million, unless is stated differently.

translation in to pln of financial statements of foreign entities, for consolidation purposes:

      particular assets and liabilities – at spot exchange rate as at the end of the reporting
      period,
      items in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income and the statement
      of cash flows are translated at the average exchange rate.

foreign exchange differences resulting from the above recalculations are recognized in equity as
foreign exchange differences on translating foreign operations.




                                                 155

                               average exchange rate for        exchange rate as at the end
        currency                  the reporting period            of the reporting period



                                       2016             2015       31/12/2016        31/12/2015


 eur/pln                             4.3648           4.1841            4.4240           4.2615


 usd/pln                             3.9459           3.7717            4.1793           3.9011


 czk/pln                             0.1614           0.1534            0.1637           0.1577


 cad/pln                             2.9772           2.9532            3.0995           2.8102




5.4. accounting principles
significant accounting principles and significant values based on judgements and estimates are
presented as a part of the specific explanatory notes to the consolidated financial statements.
the group applied the accounting principles consistently to all presented reporting periods.

the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with ifrss requires that the
management board makes expert estimates and assumptions that affect the presented amounts.
the estimates and related assumptions are based on historical expertise and other factors
regarded as reliable in given circumstances and their effects provide grounds for professional
judgment of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities which is not based directly on any other
factors.

in the matters of considerable weight, the management board might base its judgments,
estimates or assumptions on opinions of independent experts. the judgments, estimates and
related assumptions are verified on a regular basis.




                                               156

selected accounting principles                                                  note



operating segments                                                                        6.1


sales revenues                                                                          7.1.1


costs                                                                                   7.1.3


income tax expenses (tax expense)                                                       7.1.7


property, plant and equipment                                                           7.2.1


exploration and extraction of mineral resources                                         7.2.1


intangible assets                                                                       7.2.2


impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets                       7.2.4


inventories                                                                            7.2.5.1


trade and other receivables                                                            7.2.5.2


trade and other liabilities                                                            7.2.5.3


net debt                                                                                7.2.6


equity                                                                                  7.2.7


provisions                                                                              7.2.9


financial instruments                                                                     7.3


fair value measurement                                                                    7.3


lease                                                                                   7.4.2


contingent assets and liabilities                                                       7.4.4


investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates                   9.1




5.5. impact of ifrs amendments on consolidated
financial statements of the orlen group




                                                                          157

        ifrss announced and adopted by the european union, not yet effective



ifrs 9 - financial instruments


the group has performed an initial analysis of the impact of the expected credit loss model
for credit risk assessment for undue receivables on 31 december 2016, and for historical data.
based on the results of the analysis, group does not expect that the new standard will have
a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.


ifrs 15 - revenue from contracts with customers


group started the assessment process of the impact of the application of major assumptions
of ifrs 15 "revenue from contracts with customers" on the consolidated financial statements
and has performed the initial analysis of a five-step model to determine when to recognize
revenue. the model specifies that revenue should be recognized when (or as) an entity
transfers control of goods or services to a customer at the amount to which the entity expects
to be entitled. depending on whether certain criteria are met, revenue is recognized over
time, in a manner that depicts the entity’s performance or at a point in time, when control of
the goods or services is transferred to the customer.
initial analysis aim to identify significant contracts concluded in the framework of: wholesale,
retail and mining activities, which could potentially contain elements affecting the timing of
revenue recognition and their amount in the reporting period, in particular with regard to: long
term contracts, multiple-element and combining contracts, significant elements of financing,
variable consideration, discounts, applied penalties or bonuses in contracts.
in 2017 analysis of the impact of ifrs 15 will be extended to other types of contracts. the
group expects that the results of the full analysis of the impact of ifrs 15 on the group data
will be available in the second half in 2017.
group, based on performed initial analysis, assesses that at initial application, i.e. for a period
beginning on 1st january 2018, ifrs 15 may not have a significant impact on timing and
amount of revenue recognized by the group in its consolidated financial statements.




standards adopted by international accounting standards board (iasb), waiting for approval of eu



ifrs 16 - lease


bringing operating leases in consolidated statement of financial position will result in recognizing a new asset –
the right to use the underlying asset – and a new liability – the obligation to make lease payments. the right-of-
use asset will be depreciated and the liability accrues interest.
it is expected that the standard, when initially applied, may have a significant impact on the amounts of non-
current assets and lease liabilities reported in the group’s financial statements, in particular in respect of
operating lease arrangements (rental) related mainly to petrol stations, means of transport and computer
equipment as presented in the note 7.4.2.1. as at 31 december 2016 the group does not have a reliable
estimates of the influence of ifrs 16 on the consolidated financial statements, as it is during its analysis.




                                                      158

the group intends to adopt new standards ifrss listed above that are published by the
international accounting standards board, but not effective as at the date of publication of these
financial statements, in accordance with their effective date.

standards and interpretations adopted by international accounting standards board (iasb),
waiting for approval of eu, which according to expectations will have no material impact on
consolidated financial statements of the orlen group

      amendments to ifrs 2 - share-based payment
      amendments to ifrs 4 - insurance contracts
      amendments to ifrs 10 - consolidated financial statements and ias 28 - investments in
      associates: sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint
      venture
      ifrs 14 - regulatory deferral accounts
      amendments to ias 7 statement of cash flows - disclosure initiative
      amendments to ias 12 income taxes - recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealized
      losses
      amendments to ias 40 - investment property
      amendments to ifrs 2014-2016
      ifric 22 - foreign currency transactions and advance consideration.




                                               159

segments’ data
6.1. operating segments
6.2. revenues, costs, financial results, investment expenditures

6.1. operating segments
the operations of the group is conducted in:

       the downstream segment, which includes integrated areas of refining, petrochemical
       production and sales and operations in the energy production activity,
       the retail segment, which includes activity carried out at the petrol stations,
       the upstream segment, which include the activity related to exploration and extraction of
       mineral resources,

and corporate functions, which include activities related to management, administration and
remaining activities not allocated to separate operating segments i.e. reconciling items.

selected accounting principles



assessments of the segments’ financial results and decisions on allocation of resources are
performed mainly on the basis of ebitda. ebitda is one of a measure of the efficiency of the
activity, which is not defined in ifrs. the orlen group defines ebitda as net profit/(loss) for the
reporting period before taking into account the impact of the income tax, effects of financing
activities and depreciation costs.

revenues from transactions with external customers and transactions with other segments are
carried out on an arm’s length basis.



6.2. revenues, costs, financial results,
investments expenditures
2016




                                                160

                                                           downstream       retail     upstream    corporate
                                                 note       segment        segment     segment     functions    adjustments        total



external revenues                                 7.1.1          49 202      29 841         442           68                  -    79 553
                                                  7.1.2


inter-segment revenues                                           10 892         280            -         283         (11 455)              -


sales revenues                                                   60 094      30 121         442          351         (11 455)      79 553


operating expenses                                              (54 939)    (28 681)       (537)      (1 072)         11 455      (73 774)


other operating income                            7.1.4           1 964          87          60           53              (1)       2 163


other operating expenses                          7.1.5           (324)       (125)         (83)       (176)                  1     (707)


net operating income and expenses, incl.:                         1 640         (38)        (23)       (123)                  -     1 456


recognition/reversal of impairment allowances     7.2.4             218          (7)        (73)           7                  -       145
of property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets


share in profit from investments accounted for      9.3             298            -         (1)            -                 -       297
under equity method


profit/(loss) from operations                                     7 093       1 402        (119)       (844)                  -     7 532


net finance income and costs                     7.1.6.1                                                                            (645)
                                                 7.1.6.2


profit before tax                                                                                                                   6 887


tax expense                                                                                                                        (1 147)


net profit                                                                                                                          5 740


depreciation and amortisation                     7.1.3           1 317         392         301          100                  -     2 110


ebitda                                                            8 410       1 794         182        (744)                  -     9 642


capex                                                             3 533         479         525          136                  -     4 673




2015




                                                                  161

                                                            downstream       retail     upstream    corporate
                                                  note       segment        segment     segment     functions   adjustments        total



 external revenues                                 7.1.1          56 987      31 052         215          82                  -    88 336
                                                   7.1.2


 inter-segment revenues                                           12 624          70            -        206         (12 900)              -


 sales revenues                                                   69 611      31 122         215         288         (12 900)      88 336


 operating expenses                                              (64 963)    (29 934)       (347)       (971)         12 900      (83 315)


 other operating income                            7.1.4             276          50           3          91                  -       420


 other operating expenses                          7.1.5           (316)         (67)       (852)       (119)                 -    (1 354)


 net operating income and expenses, incl.:                           (40)        (17)       (849)        (28)                 -     (934)


 recognition/reversal of impairment allowances     7.2.4           (136)            -       (852)         (5)                 -     (993)
 of property, plant and equipment and
 intangible assets


 share in profit from investments accounted for      9.3             253            -           -           -                 -       253
 under equity method


 profit/(loss) from operations                                     4 861       1 171        (981)       (711)                 -     4 340


 net finance income and costs                     7.1.6.1                                                                           (642)
                                                  7.1.6.2


 profit before tax                                                                                                                  3 698


 tax expense                                                                                                                        (465)


 net profit                                                                                                                         3 233


 depreciation and amortisation                     7.1.3           1 269         368         173          85                  -     1 895


 ebitda                                                            6 130       1 539        (808)       (626)                 -     6 235


 capex                                                             2 242         448         288         205                  -     3 183




capex - increase of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investment property and perpetual usufruct of land
together with the capitalisation of borrowing costs




                                                                   162

notes and other information
select a note:


7. explanatory notes to the consolidated financial statements



8. information concerning significant proceedings



9. orlen group structure and joint arrangements



10. events after the end of reporting period



11. statements of the management board and approval of the financial statements




                                               163

explanatory notes to the consolidated financial
statements
7.1. explanatory notes to the statement of
profit or loss and other comprehensive income
7.1.1. sales revenues by assortments
selected accounting principles



sales revenues
sales revenues of goods and services are recognized, when the significant risks and rewards of
ownership are transferred to the buyer and when the group is no longer permanently involved in
managing sold goods to the extent, that such function is usually carried out in relation to goods,
to which there is right of ownership, and it does not exercise effective control over them.
revenues include received and due payments for delivered finished goods, merchandise, raw
materials and services, decreased by the amount of any trade discounts and value added tax
(vat), excise tax and fuel charges. revenues are measured at the fair value of the payment
received or due.
revenues from the sale of finished goods, merchandise, raw materials and services are adjusted
for profits or losses from settlement of cash flows hedging instruments related to the above
mentioned revenues.
revenues and costs from services, which beginning and end fall within different reporting
periods, are recognized by reference to the stage of completion of the service, when the
outcome of a contract can be valuated reliably, in other cases, revenues are recognized only to
the extent of costs incurred to the date, but not higher than the costs that the group expects to
recover.




                                               164

                      2016                  2015            share 2016      share 2015



downstream segment


medium distillates           22 714                25 062           28.6%           28.4%


light distillates            10 513                11 528           13.2%           13.1%


heavy fractions               3 786                 4 610            4.8%            5.2%


monomers                      2 025                 2 978            2.5%            3.4%


polymers                      1 135                 2 341            1.4%            2.7%


pta                           1 571                 1 532            2.0%            1.7%


plastics                      1 218                 1 492            1.5%            1.7%


fertilizers                    821                  1 057            1.0%            1.2%


aromas                         625                   930             0.8%            1.1%


other                         4 794                 5 457            6.0%            6.0%


                             49 202                56 987           61.8%           64.5%


retail segment


medium distillates           14 305                15 567           18.0%           17.6%


light distillates            11 838                12 084           14.9%           13.7%


other                         3 698                 3 401            4.6%            3.9%


                             29 841                31 052           37.5%           35.2%


upstream segment


liquid hydrocarbons            270                   147             0.4%            0.1%


natural gas                    172                    68             0.2%            0.1%


                               442                   215             0.6%            0.2%


corporate functions             68                    82             0.1%            0.1%



                             79 553                88 336          100.0%          100.0%




                                      165

in 2016 and 2015 no leading customers were identified in the group, for which turnover
individually would exceeded 10% of total revenues from sale of the orlen group.

7.1.2. sales revenues geographical division - disclosed
by customer’s premises countries
                                   2016              2015         share 2016       share 2015



 poland                               33 731           36 223            42.4%            41.0%


 germany                              15 781           17 073            19.8%            19.3%


 czech republic                        9 861           10 671            12.4%            12.1%


 lithuania, latvia, estonia            6 216            6 886             7.8%              7.8%


 other countries                      13 964           17 483            17.6%            19.8%



                                      79 553           88 336           100.0%           100.0%



the line “other countries” comprises mainly sales to customers from switzerland, ukraine,
hungary, slovakia, great britain, the netherlands, canada and austria.

7.1.3. cost by nature
selected accounting principles



costs

cost of sales include costs of finished goods, merchandise, services and raw materials sold and
adjustments related to inventories written down to net realizable value.
costs are adjusted for profits or losses from settlement of cash flow hedging instruments related
to the above mentioned costs.
distribution expenses include selling brokerage expenses, trading expenses, advertising and
promotion expenses as well as distribution expenses.
administrative expenses include expenses relating to management and administration of the
group as a whole.




                                               166

                                             2016         2015         share 2016   share 2016



materials and energy                         (43 512)     (54 542)          59,0%        65,8%


cost of merchandise and raw materials sold   (20 247)     (18 303)          27,4%        22,1%


external services                             (4 073)      (4 352)           5,5%         5,3%


employee benefits, incl.:                     (2 206)      (2 110)           3,0%         2,5%


 payroll expenses                             (1 740)      (1 700)           2,3%         2,0%


 social security expenses                      (377)        (354)            0,5%         0,3%


depreciation and amortisation                 (2 110)      (1 895)           2,9%         2,3%


taxes and charges                             (1 129)      (1 152)           1,5%         1,4%


other                                          (529)        (481)            0,7%         0,6%


                                             (73 806)     (82 835)         100,0%       100,0%


change in inventories                          (232)        (693)


cost of products and services for own use           264          213


operating expenses                           (73 774)     (83 315)


distribution expenses                          4 125        3 971


administrative expenses                        1 426        1 552



cost of sales                                (68 223)     (77 792)




7.1.4. other operating income


                                             167

                                                        note          2016          2015



 profit on sale of subsidiaries                                              63        -


 profit on sale of non-current non-financial assets                          60             59


 reversal of provisions                                                      25             32


 reversal of receivables impairment allowances                               13             17


 reversal of impairment allowances of property,            7.2.4           366              36
 plant and equipment and intangible assets


 penalties and compensation                                              1 449              74


 other                                                                     187             202



                                                                         2 163             420



the line penalties and compensation in 2016 includes mainly the amount of partial compensation
received from insurers related to the steam cracker unit accident in unipetrol group in august
2015 in the amount of pln 1,280 million. detailed information is presented in note 7.4.4.

7.1.5. other operating expenses




                                                168

                                                                 note             2016       2015



loss on sale of non-current non-financial assets                                     (39)           (38)


recognition of provisions                                                           (178)          (101)


recognition of receivables impairment allowances                                     (25)           (47)


recognition of impairment allowances of property,                  7.2.4            (221)     (1 029)
plant and equipment and intangible assets


penalties, damages and compensation                                                 (133)           (53)


other                                                                               (111)           (86)



                                                                                    (707)     (1 354)




7.1.6. finance income and costs

7.1.6.1. finance income
                                                                           2016             2015



interest                                                                            59                82


dividends                                                                            5                 2


settlement and valuation of derivative financial instruments                       156               270


reversal of receivables impairment allowances                                        2                 7


other                                                                               26                29



                                                                                   248               390




                                                           169

7.1.6.2. finance costs
                                                              2016            2015



 interest                                                            (216)           (205)


 foreign exchange loss, net                                          (542)           (317)


 settlement and valuation of derivative financial                     (98)           (447)
 instruments


 recognition of receivables impairment allowances                      (2)             (4)


 other                                                                (35)            (59)



                                                                     (893)      (1 032)




7.1.6.3. interest, net
                                                              2016            2015



finance income and costs of net interest presented in                (157)           (123)
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income


adjustments to net profit of net interest presented in                 219            199
statement of cash flows


  interest paid concerning financing activities                        223            258


  accrued interest concerning investing and financing                   (4)           (59)
activities


net interest concerning operating activities not correcting            (62)           (76)
profit before tax




                                                  170

7.1.6.4. foreign exchange loss
                                                                   2016                2015



 foreign exchange (loss) surplus presented in                             (542)               (317)
 statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive
 income


 adjustments to net profit of foreign exchange                             287                  24
 differences presented in statement of cash flows


   realized foreign exchange differences concerning                        355                  72
 investing and financing activities


   unrealized foreign exchange differences concerning                      (59)                (29)
 investing and financing activities


   foreign exchange differences on cash                                     (9)                (19)


 foreign exchange differences concerning operating                        (255)               (293)
 activities not correcting profit before tax




7.1.7. tax expense
selected accounting principles



income tax expenses (tax expense)

income tax expenses (tax expense) include of current tax and deferred tax. current tax expense
is determined in accordance with the relevant tax law based on the taxable profit for a given
period and is recognized as a liability, in the amount which has not been paid or receivable, if the
amount of the current and prior periods income tax paid exceeds the amount due the excess is
recognized.
deferred tax assets and liabilities are accounted as non-current and are not discounted and are
offset on the level of particular financial statements of the group companies when there is
a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts.




                                                171

7.1.7.1. the differences between tax expense
recognized in profit or loss and the amount calculated
based on the rate from profit before tax
                                                                 2016               2015



 profit before tax                                                    6 887              3 698


 tax expense for 2016 and 2015 by the valid tax rate in             (1 309)                (703)
 poland (19%)


 differences between tax rates                                           22                  57


   lithuania (15%)                                                       39                  34


   germany (29%)                                                        (19)                (14)


   canada (26%)                                                           2                  37


 tax losses                                                             213                 135


 impairment allowances of property, plant and                           (90)                     -
 equipment and intangible assets


 investments accounted for under equity method                           56                  48


 other                                                                  (39)                 (2)



 tax expense                                                        (1 147)                (465)



 effective tax rate                                                     17%                13%



as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015, the group had unsettled tax losses
mainly relating to the orlen lietuva group, the unipetrol group and the anwil group of pln
410 million and pln 1,155 million respectively, for which no deferred tax asset was recognized

                                              172

due to the lack of certainty regarding the possibility of their realization in the future.

7.1.7.2 deferred tax
                                                                                  exchange
                                          deferred                               differences
                                              tax                                     on
                                         recognized           deferred tax       translating
                                         in profit or      recognized in other     foreign
                            31/12/2015       loss        comprehensive income    operations    31/12/2016



 deferred tax assets


 impairment                       779          (286)                         -            2          495
 allowances


 provisions and                   306            (85)                        -            1          222
 accruals


 tax losses                       189            304                         -             -         493


 valuation of financial            10             (7)                       75             -          78
 instruments


 other                            138          (168)                         -             -         (30)


                                 1 422         (242)                        75            3         1 258


 deferred tax liabilities


 temporary differences           1 542           223                         -            7         1 772
 related to non-current
 assets


 other                            189            (69)                        -            8          128


                                 1 731           154                         -           15         1 900



                                 (309)         (396)                        75          (12)        (642)




as at 31 december 2016 deferred tax assets and liabilities amounted to pln 167 million and pln
809 million, respectively.




                                                        173

7.1.7.3. tax expense (paid)
                                                           note           2016           2015



 tax expense on profit before tax                            7.1.7.1       (1 147)          (465)


 change in deferred tax asset and liabilities                                  333            619


 change in current tax receivables and liabilities                             420            111


 deferred tax recognized in other comprehensive              7.1.7.2             75         (292)
 income


 acquisition of subsidiary                                                        -         (166)


 foreign exchange differences                                                  (17)           (11)



                                                                             (336)          (204)




7.2. explanatory notes to the statement of
financial position
7.2.1. 7.2.1. property, plant and equipment
selected accounting principles



7.2.1. property, plant and equipment
property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost, including grants related to assets.
property, plant and equipment are stated in the statement of financial position prepared at the
end of the reporting period at the net book value which is the amount at which an asset is initially
recognized (cost) less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses, as well
as received grants for assets.
the costs of significant repairs and regular maintenance programs are recognized as property,
plant and equipment.
fixed assets are depreciated with straight-line method and in justified cases units of production
method of depreciation (catalysts, assets arising from development and extraction of mineral
resources).


                                                174

each part of an item of property, plant and equipment with a cost that is significant in relation to
the total cost of the item is depreciated separately over the period reflecting its useful lives.
the following standard useful lives are used for property, plant and equipment:

      buildings and constructions 10-40 years
      machinery and equipment 4-35 years
      vehicles and other 2-20 years

the method of depreciation, residual value and useful life of an asset are reviewed at least at the
end of each year. when it is necessary adjustments of depreciation are carried out in subsequent
periods (prospectively).

grants
grants are recognized if there is reasonable assurance that the grants will be received and the
entity will comply with the conditions attaching to them.
grants related to assets are recognized as a decrease of a carrying amount of an asset and as
a result a decrease of depreciation and amortisation charges over the useful life of the asset.

exploration and extraction of mineral resources
within the framework of exploration and extraction of mineral resources, the following
classification of stage was made:

stage of exploration and assessment of mineral resources include:

      acquisition of rights to explore and extract, exploration and recognition of resources are
      recognized according to the successful efforts method,
      expenditures for exploratory,
      other expenditures which are directly attributable to the phase of exploration and
      recognition and are subject for capitalization.

the group shall review annually expenditures incurred in the stage of exploration and recognition
of mineral resources in order to confirm the intention of further work. if the work is unsuccessful,
the cost previously recognized as an asset are recognized as cost of a current period.
expenditure incurred in the exploration and recognition of resources are recognized as assets
related to development and extraction of mineral resources within property, plant and equipment
at the moment of the conclusion of their technical feasibility and economic viability of mining.

stage of site planning and of extraction of mineral resources
expenditures incurred for mineral resource sites planning and extraction of resources are
capitalized and amortised by unit of production method calculated proportionally to the amount
of extraction of hydrocarbons based on unit of installation. the group calculates the depreciation
of all assets related to sites planning and extraction of mineral resources (including their
significant components) based on proved plus probable reserves.
in case of significant change in estimated mineral resources, at the reporting date potential
impairment allowances are recognized or reversed.
in case of performance of exploratory drillings on already extracted resource, the group
analyses, if costs incurred enable rising new boreholes. if not, the expenditures are recognized in
costs of the current period.




                                                175

professional judgements



expenditures for exploration and evaluation of mineral resources
application of the group’s accounting policy for expenditures for exploration and evaluation of
mineral resources requires an assessment, whether future economic benefits resulting from
extraction or sale are possible or if indications allowing to estimate the resources does not yet
exist. when estimating the resources, the group assesses future events and circumstances,
including the assessment whether the extraction will be economically feasible.



estimates



estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment
the group verifies useful lives of property, plant and equipment once at year end with effect
from the beginning of next year. should the economic useful lives of properties, plant and
equipment from 2015 be applied in 2016, the depreciation expense would be higher by pln
40 million.

exploration and evaluation of mineral resources
the group estimates resources based on interpretation of available geological data and verifies
then on a the current basis, based on effects of further drills, trial exploitation, actual extraction
and economic factors such as: hydrocarbons’ prices, contractual terms or investment plans.
at the end of each reporting period the group analyses cost of removal of wells and supporting
infrastructure.

remediation of land – water environment
the group estimates the level of capitalized provisions related to non-current assets, which to
a significant probability are needed for land – water environment remediation of the territory of
petrol stations, fuel depots and areas of production plants.




                                                  176

                                                                                                                exploration
                                                                                                                    and       assets related to
                                                                                                                evaluation    development and
                                                                         machinery    vehicles                   of mineral     extraction of
                                                     buildings and          and         and      construction     resource        mineral
                                             land    constructions       equipment     other      in progress      assets        resources         total


net carrying amount at 01/01/2016


gross carrying amount                        1 128            20 546        36 947       2 018          2 819          762                4 293    68 513


accumulated depreciation                      (12)           (8 500)       (19 593)    (1 186)              -           (3)               (420)   (29 714)


impairment allowances                         (33)           (2 564)       (10 045)      (165)          (154)         (423)               (705)   (14 089)


grants                                           -              (51)          (116)        (6)            (1)             -                   -     (174)



                                             1 083             9 431         7 193        661           2 664          336                3 168    24 536


increases/(decreases), net


investment expenditures                          -               74            130         59           3 736          175                 340      4 514


depreciation                                   (1)             (595)          (967)      (172)              -          (24)               (288)    (2 047)


borrowing costs                                  -                   -           1          1             56             9                    -        67


                        *
impairment allowances                            -              101            249         25             14           (72)                   -       317



reclassifications                              13               431          1 348        120         (1 935)             -                  29            6


grants                                           -               (1)            (1)         1               -             -                   -        (1)


foreign exchange differences, incl.:           23                77            142         17             39             5                 245        548


foreign exchange differences of impairment     (4)              (68)          (542)        (5)            (6)             -                (73)     (698)
allowances


other                                          (3)              (69)          (182)       (35)           (14)           35                  (1)     (269)



                                             1 115             9 449         7 913        677           4 560          464                3 493    27 671


net carrying amount at 31/12/2016


gross carrying amount                        1 164            20 837        37 950       2 110          4 707          986                5 307    73 061


accumulated depreciation                      (12)           (8 805)       (19 582)    (1 283)              -          (27)             (1 036)   (30 745)


impairment allowances                         (37)           (2 531)       (10 338)      (145)          (146)         (495)               (778)   (14 470)


grants                                           -              (52)          (117)        (5)            (1)             -                   -     (175)



                                             1 115             9 449         7 913        677           4 560          464                3 493    27 671


net carrying amount at 01/01/2015


gross carrying amount                        1 113            19 030        32 937       2 147          2 374          883                2 363    60 847


accumulated depreciation                      (10)           (7 766)       (17 331)    (1 259)            (1)             -               (255)   (26 622)


impairment allowances                         (42)           (2 087)        (8 611)      (157)          (155)          (93)               (315)   (11 460)


grants                                           -              (23)           (71)        (2)           (25)             -                   -     (121)



                                             1 061             9 154         6 924        729           2 193          790                1 793    22 644


increases/(decreases), net


investment expenditures                          -               87             89         84           2 501          126                 152      3 039


depreciation                                   (1)             (588)          (894)      (162)              -           (2)               (184)    (1 831)


borrowing costs                                  -               14             17          1             21            10                    -        63


acquisition of subsidiary                        -                   3           2          2               -           79                1 696     1 782


                        *
impairment allowances                           9               (28)           (74)        21             31          (333)               (423)     (797)



reclassifications                               7               826          1 142         85         (2 105)         (229)                236        (38)


grants                                           -              (28)           (45)        (4)            24              -                   -       (53)


sale of subsidiary                               -                   -            -          -              -          (86)                   -       (86)


foreign exchange differences, incl.:            8                29             72         11             12            (8)               (102)        22


foreign exchange differences of impairment       -             (449)        (1 360)       (29)           (30)            3                   33    (1 832)
allowances


other                                          (1)              (38)           (40)      (106)           (13)          (11)                   -     (209)



net carrying amount at 31/12/2015            1 083             9 431         7 193        661           2 664          336                3 168    24 536




                                                                                                                177

*
    increases/(decreases) net of impairment allowances include recognition, reversal, usage, reclassifications.
in 2016 and 2015, net increases/(decreases) of impairment allowances covers respectively: recognition and reversal, net
in the amount of pln 148 million and pln (993) million, usage due to sale/liquidation in the amount of pln 157 million and
pln 57 million and reclassifications to assets classified as held for sale and due to changes the group structure in the
amount of pln 12 million and pln 139 million.

in 2016 and 2015 the capitalization rate used to calculate borrowing costs amounted to 1.14%
and 1.44%, respectively.
the gross carrying amount of all fully depreciated property, plant and equipment still in use as at
31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 amounted to pln 5,086 million and pln 4,711
million, respectively.
information regarding property, plant and equipment that were pledged for loans of the group is
presented in note ‎7.2.6.1.1.

7.2.2. intangible assets
selected accounting principles



intangible assets

an intangible asset shall be measured initially at acquisition or production cost and shall be
presented in the financial statements in its net carrying amount, including grants.
intangible assets with the finite useful life are amortised using straight-line method. amortization
shall begin when the asset is available for use.
standard useful lives of intangible assets are from 2 to 10 for software and from 2 to 15 years for
concessions, licenses, patents and similar.
the amortization method and useful life of intangible asset item are verified at least at the end of
each year.

goodwill

goodwill acquired in a business combination shall, from the acquisition date, be allocated to each
of the acquirer's cash-generating units (cgu), that is expected to benefit from the synergies of
the combination.
after combination the acquirer shall measure goodwill in the amount recognized at the
acquisition date less any accumulated impairment allowances.
a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated shall be tested for impairment
annually, and whenever there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. an impairment loss
recognized for goodwill shall not be reversed in a subsequent period.

rights

the main item of rights is co2 emission rights, not amortised, tested for impairment.
granted emission allowances are presented as intangible assets in correspondence with deferred
income at fair value as at the date of registration. purchased allowances are presented at
purchase price.
for the estimated co2 emission during the reporting period, a provision is created (taxes and



                                                              178

charges).
grants are recognized on a systematic basis to ensure proportionality with the related costs
which the grants are intended to compensate.
outgoing of allowances is recognized using fifo method (first in, first out) within the individual
types of rights (eua, cer).
rights also include energy certificates.



estimates



estimated useful lives of intangible assets

the group verifies useful lives of intangible assets once at year end with effect from the
beginning of next year. should the economic useful lives of intangible assets from 2015 be
applied in 2016, the depreciation expense would not change significantly.

as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 internally generated intangible assets
amounted to pln 108 million and pln 67 million, respectively.

the changes in other intangible assets




                                                179

                                                              patents,
                                                                trade
                                                                marks
                                                                 and
                                                              licenses    goodwill       rights       other       total


net carrying amount at 01/01/2016


gross carrying amount                                             1 395        374           840         132        2 741


accumulated depreciation                                          (944)        (18)           (1)        (65)      (1 028)


impairment allowances                                              (98)       (315)          (59)         (7)       (479)


grants                                                              (3)              -            -           -           (3)


                                                                   350          41           780          60        1 231


increases/(decreases), net


investment expenditures                                             45           8                -           -           53


amortisation                                                       (69)              -            -           2       (67)


                        *
impairment allowances                                               (6)              -            -           -           (6)



foreign exchange differences, incl.:                                 5           1                -           1            7


foreign exchange differences of impairment allowances               (3)              -            -           1           (2)


     **
other                                                               31               -        47         (27)             51



                                                                   356          50           827          36        1 269


net carrying amount at 31/12/2016


gross carrying amount                                             1 521        384           886         101        2 892


accumulated depreciation                                        (1 055)        (19)               -      (59)      (1 133)


impairment allowances                                             (107)       (315)          (59)         (6)       (487)


grants                                                              (3)              -            -           -           (3)



                                                                   356          50           827          36        1 269




                                                        180

                                                 patents,
                                                   trade
                                                   marks
                                                    and
                                                 licenses         goodwill        rights          other           total


    net carrying amount at 01/01/2015


    gross carrying amount                             1 219             374             256             111         1 960


    accumulated amortisation                          (830)             (18)             (1)           (11)         (860)


    impairment allowances                               (84)          (318)            (66)                -        (468)


    grants                                               (3)                 -             -               -              (3)


                                                        302              38             189             100           629


    increases/(decreases), net


    investment expenditures                              48                6               -              1               55


    amortisation                                        (60)                 -             -             (7)         (67)


    acquisition of subsidiary                              1                 -             9               -              10


                             *
    impairment allowances                                (2)               3               7             (6)               2



    sale of subsidiary                                      -            (3)               -             12                9


    foreign exchange differences, incl.:                    -            (3)             (2)               -              (5)


    foreign exchange differences of                     (12)                 -             -             (1)         (13)
    impairment allowances



    other**                                              61                  -          577            (40)           598



    net carrying amount at 31/12/2015                   350              41             780              60         1 231




*
    increases/(decreases) net of impairment allowances include recognition, reversal, usage, reclassifications.


                                                                181

in 2016 and 2015, increases/(decreases), net of impairment allowances covers: recognition and reversal in the amount of
pln (3) million and usage and reclassifications.
**
     other increases/(decreases) of property rights in the net book value consist mainly of forward transactions settlement,
granted free of charge and settlement of rights for 2015 and 2014.

the gross carrying amount of all fully amortised intangible assets still in use as at 31 december
2016 and as at 31 december 2015 amounted to pln 586 million and pln 506 million,
respectively.

7.2.2.1. rights
change in owned co2 emission rights in 2016.


                                                                                   quantity
                                                                                  (in thous.
                                                                                   tonnes)                   value



     01/01/2016                                                                           28 861                       770


     granted free of charge                                                                 8 488                      188


     emission settlement for 2015                                                       (13 636)                     (375)


     forward transactions settlement                                                        4 450                      103


     purchase/(sale), net                                                                   6 358                      130



                                                                                          34 521                       816



     co₂ emission in 2016                                                                 12 906                       353



as at 31 december 2016 the market value of one eua amounted to pln 28.93 (representing eur
6.54 at exchange rate as at 31 december 2016) (source: www.theice.com).
as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 the group recognized the rights to
colourful energy in the amount pln 11 million and pln 10 million, respectively. in 2016 the group
granted free of charge rights to colourful energy in the amount of pln 95 million.

additionally, as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 the group recognized
co2 emission rights in the amount pln 11 million and pln 18 million, respectively and rights to
colourful energy in the amount pln 3 million and pln 32 million, respectively (note 7.2.5.2) in


                                                              182

trade and other receivables.

7.2.3. assets by operating segments and non-current
assets by geographical allocation
                                                           31/12/2016         31/12/2015



 downstream segment                                               38 770             34 282


 retail segment                                                     6 139             5 683


 upstream segment                                                   3 840             3 380


 segment assets                                                   48 749             43 345


 corporate functions                                                6 943             4 995


 adjustments                                                        (133)              (203)



                                                                  55 559             48 137



operating segments include all assets except for financial assets, tax assets and cash. assets
used jointly by the operating segments are allocated based on revenues generated by individual
operating segments.




                                             183

                                         31/12/2016           31/12/2015          share 2016           share 2015



  poland                                        19 631               18 755               67,1%                 72,0%


  germany                                           966                    915              3,3%                 3,5%


  czech republic                                 5 216                 3 343              17,8%                 12,8%


  lithuania, latvia, estonia                        708                    638              2,4%                 2,5%


  canada                                         2 731                 2 385                9,3%                 9,2%



                                                29 252               26 036              100,0%               100,0%



non-current assets by geographical allocation include property, plant and equipment (note 7.2.1), intangible assets (note
7.2.2), investment property and perpetual usufruct of land (note 7.2.8).


7.2.4. impairment of property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets
selected accounting principles



impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
at the end of the reporting period, the group assesses whether there are indicators that an asset
or cash-generating unit (cgu) may be impaired or any indicators that the previously recognized
impairment should be reversed.
assets that do not generate the independent cash flows are grouped on the lowest level on which
cash flows, independent from cash flows from other assets, are generated (cgu). if such case
occurs, the recoverable amount is determined on the cgu level, to which the asset belongs.
recognition and reversal of impairment allowances of property, plant and equipment and
intangible assets is recognized in other operating activity.



estimates



impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets
the management board assesses whether there is any indicator for impairment of an asset or


                                                           184

cash generating unit. if there is any indicator for impairment, the estimation of recoverable
amount of an asset is made.



net impairment allowances of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets


                                                           note           2016           2015



 orlen upstream canada                                                            -         (423)


 orlen upstream                                                                (73)         (429)


 unipetrol group                                                               300          (111)


 orlen oil group                                                               (55)                -


                                                                               172          (963)


 other impairment allowances                                                   (27)             (30)



                                                        7.1.4                  145          (993)
                                                        7.1.5



as at 31 december 2016, an impairment indicators were identified in the orlen group in
accordance with ias 36 “impairment allowances of assets” related to the approval on
15 december 2016 strategy of the orlen group for the years 2017-2021 ("strategy") by the
management board and the supervisory board of pkn orlen.
assumptions of the orlen group strategy include among others, economic growth in key
markets activity of the orlen group, the increase of crude oil prices resulting from the need to
replace natural decreases in extractions by productions from more expensive sources and
restrictions on investment in recent years, the stabilization of downstream margin at a lower
level than that observed in the last 2 years and a further increase in regulatory pressure,
especially in the field of low carbon economy and environmental protection. macroeconomic
assumptions were developed on the basis of commercially available sources of knowledge of
industry analitical agencies, forecasts of bank analysts, expert knowledge of the orlen group.

due to the lack of a basis for a reliable estimate of the price, at which would have taken place
potential transaction to sale the assets of the group as the recoverable value of its individual
assets is its value in use, according to ias 36.20.


                                                185

the tests were performed on the basis of assets of the orlen group as at 31 december
2016 and net cash flows projected in the approved within the strategy the mid-term plan,
discounted to their present value using the discount rates which reflect the current market value
of money and the specific risks to the valued assets.
discount rates were calculated as the weighted average cost of engaged equity and debt.
sources of macroeconomic indicators necessary to determine the discount rate were published
by prof. aswath damodaran (source: pages.stern.nyu.edu), government bonds quotation and
government agencies available as at 31 december 2016.

the discount rate structure used in the impairment tests of assets by cash-generating unit of
orlen group as at 31 december 2016

                           poland                                       czech republic                lithuania       canada     germany



              refining   petrochemical   retail   upstream   refining    petrochemical   retail   refining   retail   upstream    retail


 cost of      15,40%           14,70%    17,65%    15,13%    11,88%            11,21%    14,07%   15,26%     17,83%     8,91%     11,10%
 equity


 cost of       2,37%            2,37%     2,37%     2,37%     1,56%             1,56%     1,56%    4,27%      4,27%     1,70%      0,88%
 debt after
 tax


 capital         0,60            0,29      1,12       1,24      0,60             0,29      1,12      0,60      1,12       0,47       1,12
 structure


 nominal      10,50%           11,93%     9,57%     8,06%     8,00%             9,04%     7,45%   11,13%     10,65%     6,60%      5,69%
 discount
 rate


 long-term     1,38%            1,38%     1,38%     1,38%     1,98%             1,98%     1,98%    1,84%      1,84%     1,78%      1,50%
 rate of
 inflation




at the same time, orlen upstream sp. z o.o. evaluated the validity of continuing exploration
work on the concession areas located in the mazowieckie, lubelskie, łódzkie and małopolskie
province and decided to continue further exploration work on these concessions only in selected,
the most promising areas of conventional research.

as a result in the 4th quarter of 2016 recognized effects of reversal of impairment allowance of
refinery assets of unipetrol group in the amount of pln 315 million and recognition of
impairment allowance of exploration assets of orlen upstream group in poland in the amount of
pln (72) million and assets of orlen oil in the amount of pln (55) million.
as a part of above tests discount rates of 8% were applied for the unipetrol group refining assets
and 9.57% for the orlen oil assets.

sensitivity analysis of the unipetrol group refining assets value in use within an impairment test
performed as at 31 december 2016




                                                                   186

                               pln million                           ebitda



 discount rate                    change               -5%              0%             5%


                                   - 0,5 p.p.         decrease of    increase of     increase of
                                                         reversal       reversal        reversal


                                                              (81)           112            305


                                    0,0 p.p.          decrease of              -     increase of
                                                         reversal                       reversal


                                                             (185)             -            185


                                  + 0,5 p.p.          decrease of    decrease of     increase of
                                                         reversal       reversal        reversal


                                                             (279)        (102)              75



 sensitivity analysis of the orlen oil assets value in use within an impairment test performed as
at 31 december 2016




                                                187

                               pln million                           ebitda



 discount rate                   change                -5%             0%              5%


                                   - 0,5 p.p.         increase in   decrease in    decrease in
                                                       allowance     allowance      allowance


                                                              (1)             8             15


                                    0,0 p.p.          increase in             -    decrease in
                                                       allowance                    allowance


                                                              (8)             -               8


                                  + 0,5 p.p.          increase in   increase in    decrease in
                                                       allowance     allowance      allowance


                                                             (14)           (7)               1



impairment allowances of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in 2015

in the 4th quarter of 2015 an impairment allowance of evaluation and extraction of mineral
resources assets in orlen upstream canada within orlen upstream group of pln (423) million
was recognized.
as at 31 december 2015 the fair value of evaluation and extraction of mineral resources assets in
canada was based on the estimated crude oil prices and reserves evaluation prepared by an
independent company engaged in the evaluation of the reserves in accordance with professional
standards for the canadian market. estimated net cash flow used to forecast the fair value of
assets were discounted to their present value using a base discount rate which reflects the
current market value of money and the specific risks to the assets on the canadian market,
which amounted to 9%.

sensitivity analysis of the orlen upstream canada assets value in use within an impairment test
performed as at 31 december 2015




                                                188

                              pln million                   hydrocarbons prices



 discount rate                   change               -5%             0%              5%


                                  - 0,5 p.p.         increase in   decrease in     decrease in
                                                      allowance     allowance       allowance


                                                            (14)            34              81


                                    0,0 p.p.         increase in              -    decrease in
                                                      allowance                     allowance


                                                            (46)              -             46


                                  + 0,5 p.p.         increase in   increase in     decrease in
                                                      allowance     allowance       allowance


                                                            (76)           (32)             12




in the 2nd quarter of 2015 orlen upstream group has determined, based on the gathered data of
previous work, the most promising areas for further exploration of hydrocarbon in poland.
narrowing the search area influenced the partial impairment of assets related to exploration and
recognition of mineral resources in the amount of pln (429) million.
the fair value of assets due to exploration and evaluation of mineral resources has been
established basing on the analysis of future cash flows, which take into account the current and
forecasted hydrocarbon prices, expected changes in the regulatory environment, probability of
success/failure and long-term production forecasts. net cash flow projections used for the
purposes of estimating the fair value of the assets were discounted to their present value using
a discount rate at 8.99%, which reflects current market assessment of the time value of money
and the risks specific to the respective assets on the polish market.

sensitivity analysis of the orlen upstream assets value in use within an impairment test
performed as at 30 june 2015




                                               189

                                pln million                   hydrocarbons prices



 discount rate                    change                -5%             0%              5%


                                    - 0,5 p.p.         increase in   decrease in     decrease in
                                                        allowance     allowance       allowance


                                                              (25)            12              51


                                     0,0 p.p.          increase in              -    decrease in
                                                        allowance                     allowance


                                                              (25)              -             37


                                   + 0,5 p.p.          increase in   increase in     decrease in
                                                        allowance     allowance       allowance


                                                              (25)           (11)             24



while lowering prices by 5% the entire value of the tested assets is impaired, with each of the
analysed discount rates.

as a consequence of the steam cracker unit accident in litvinov (unipetrol group) in august
2015, impairment of property, plant and equipment of pln (93) million translated using the
exchange rate as at 30 september 2015 (representing approximately czk (597) million) was
recognized in the 3rd quarter of 2015.

7.2.5. working capital




                                                 190

                                                                               trade              trade
                                                                             and other              and
                                                             inventori       receivabl             other      working
                                                note            es               es             liabilities   capital*



    31/12/2015                                                   10 715             6 597          10 658        6 654



    31/12/2016                                                   11 182             8 553          13 591        6 144



    change in working                                              (467)          (1 956)           2 933         510
    capital in the
    statement of financial
    position


    adjustments                                                      180              227            (151)        306


    reclassification                                                   25                   -             -        25


    change in rights and                         7.2.5.2                 -            (77)                -       (77)
    advances for non-
    financial non-current
    assets


    change in investment                         7.2.5.3                 -                  -         110         110
    liabilities


    change in                                    7.2.5.2                 -            222                 -       222
    compensations’
    receivables


    foreign exchange                                                 153              133            (235)         51
    differences


    other                                                               2              (1)            (26)        (25)


    change in working                                              (287)          (1 679)           2 782         816
    capital in the
    statement of cash
    flows



*
 working capital = inventories +trade and other receivables – trade and other liabilities



                                                           191

7.2.5.1. inventories
selected accounting principles



inventories
inventories, including mandatory reserves comprise products, semi-finished products and work in
progress, merchandise and materials.
finished goods, semi-finished products and work in progress are measured initially at production
cost. production costs include costs of materials and costs of conversion for the production
period. costs of production also include a systematic allocation of fixed and variable production
overheads estimated for normal production level.
finished goods, semi-finished products and work in progress shall be measured at the end of the
reporting period at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
outgoings of finished goods, semi-finished products and work in progress are determined based
on the weighted average cost of production.
merchandise and materials are measured initially at acquisition cost, while as at the end of the
reporting period merchandise and raw materials are measured at the lower of cost or net
realizable value. outgoings of merchandise and raw materials are determined based on the
weighted average acquisition cost.
the initial value of inventories is adjusted for profits or losses from settlement of cash flow
hedging instruments related to the above mentioned.
impairment tests for specific items of inventories are carried out on a current basis during
a reporting period. write-down to net realizable value concerns inventories that are damaged or
obsolete and the selling price have fallen. raw materials held for use in the production are not
written down below acquisition or production cost if the products in which they will be
incorporated are expected to be sold at or above cost.
however, when a decline in the price of materials indicates that the cost of the products exceeds
net realizable value, the materials are written down to net realizable value.
recognition and reversal of impairment allowances of inventories is recognized in cost of sales.



estimates



net realizable values from sale of inventories
the inventory allowances required estimation of the net realizable value based on the most
recent sales prices at the moment of estimations.




                                               192

                                                            31/12/2016         31/12/2015



 raw materials                                                      6 367              5 869


 work in progress                                                   1 154                   883


 finished goods                                                     3 139              3 547


 merchandise                                                          522                   416



 inventories, net                                                  11 182             10 715



 impairment allowances of inventories to net realisable               158                   288
 value


 inventories gross                                                 11 340             11 003



as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 the value of mandatory reserves
presented in consolidated financial statement amounted to pln 4,109 million and pln 4,534
million, respectively.




                                              193

change in impairment allowances of inventories to net realizable
value

                                                                    2016                 2015



 at the beginning of the period                                             288                  949


 recognition                                                                153                  238


 reversal                                                                   (98)                 (67)


 usage                                                                     (191)                (858)


 foreign exchange differences                                                 6                   26



                                                                            158                  288



in 2016 and in 2015 the recognition and reversal of impairment allowances of inventories to net
realizable value related mainly to the downstream segment and amounted to pln (42) million
and pln (170) million, respectively.

7.2.5.2. trade and other receivables
selected accounting principles



receivables
receivables, including trade receivables, are recognized initially at a fair value and subsequently,
at amortised cost using the effective interest method less impairment allowances.
impairment allowances of receivables are based on the individual analysis of the value of held
collaterals, and based on the possible compensation of debts.
recognition and reversal of impairment allowances of receivables are recognized in other
operating activity in relation to principal amount and in financial activities in relation to interest
for delayed payments.



estimates




                                                 194

impairment of trade and other receivables
the management board assesses whether there is any indicator for impairment of trade and
other receivables taking into account the adopted internal procedures as individual assessment
of each customer with regard to credit risk.




                                                                       note         31/12/2016       31/12/2015



    trade receivables                                                                      7 161             5 397


    other                                                                                    281                24


    financial assets                                                                       7 442             5 421


    excise tax and fuel charge                                                               123               151


    other taxation, duties, social security and other benefits                               181               187


    advances for non-current non-financial assets                                            503               544


    rights                                                                                     14               50


    advances for deliveries                                                                    31               26


    prepayments                                                                              259               218


    non-financial assets                                                                   1 111             1 176



    receivables, net                                                                       8 553             6 597



    receivables impairment allowance                                  7.2.5.2.2              479               477


    receivables gross                                                                      9 032             7 074



*
 position other includes compensation from insurers due to unipetrol group as at 31 december 2016 in the amount pln



                                                         195

222 million.

division of financial assets denominated in foreign currencies is presented in note 7.3.5.2.
division of receivables from related parties is presented in note 7.4.6.

7.2.5.2.1. the ageing analysis of receivables
based on the analysis of balances of receivables the customers were divided into two groups:

       group i – customers with very good or good history of cooperation in the current year;
       group ii – other customers.

the division of not past due receivables


                                                               31/12/2016          31/12/2015



  group i                                                               6 205              3 952


  group ii                                                               895               1 103



                                                                        7 100              5 055



the division of past due receivables, but not impaired as at the end of the reporting period


                                                               31/12/2016          31/12/2015



  up to 1 month                                                           304                   275


  above 1 to 3 months                                                      26                    51


  above 3 to 6 months                                                       4                    12


  above 6 to 12 months                                                      6                    16


  above 1 year                                                             34                    24



                                                                          374                   378




                                                196

7.2.5.2.2. change in impairment allowances of trade
and other receivables
                                                              note            2016            2015



 at the beginning of the period                                                    477                509


 recognition                                                      7.3.2              27               51


 reversal                                                         7.3.2            (15)           (24)


 usage                                                                             (20)           (67)


 foreign exchange differences                                                        10                8



                                                                                   479                477




7.2.5.3. trade and other liabilities
selected accounting principles



liabilities
liabilities, including trade liabilities, are initially measured at fair value and subsequently, at
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.




                                                  197

                                                                 31/12/2016          31/12/2015



 trade liabilities                                                        7 549               5 430


 investment liabilities                                                   1 398               1 508


 finance lease                                                               29                     26


 other                                                                      113                 175


 financial liabilities                                                    9 089               7 139


 payroll liabilities                                                        260                 250


 excise tax and fuel charge                                               2 585               1 947


 value added tax                                                          1 333                 915


 other taxation, duties, social security and other                          161                 262
 benefits


 holiday pay accruals                                                        71                     63


 other                                                                       92                     82


 non-financial liabilities                                                4 502               3 519



                                                                         13 591              10 658



division of financial liabilities denominated in foreign currencies is presented in note 7.3.5.2.
division of liabilities from related parties is presented in note 7.4.6.

as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 in the group were no material overdue
liabilities.



                                                 198

7.2.6. net debt and equity management
selected accounting principles



net debt
the group defined net debt as: non-current and current loans, borrowings and bonds lower by
cash and cash equivalents.
cash comprises cash on hand and in a bank accounts. cash equivalents are short-term, highly
liquid investments (of initial maturity up to three months), that are readily convertible to known
amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of change in value. valuation and
outflows of cash and cash equivalents in foreign currencies are based on fifo (first in first out)
method.
the group to assess the level of debt used ratios: net financial gearing (net debt / equity
(calculated as at the end of the period) x 100%) and net debt / ebitda before net impairment
allowances.



changes in net debt




                                                199

                                                                              31/12/2016       31/12/2015



at the beginning of the period                                                      6 810            6 720


loans, borrowings and bonds                                                         9 158           10 657


cash and cash equivalents                                                          (2 348)          (3 937)


cash changes in net debt                                                           (3 456)            (225)


net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                               (2 685)           1 608


drawings/(repayments) of net loans, borrowings and bonds                           (1 099)          (1 875)


realized foreign exchange differences in statement of profit or loss                  328               42


non-cash changes in net debt                                                               9           315


unrealized exchange differences recognized in profit or loss                         (102)              13


exchange differences on translating foreign operations recognized in equity            11              (64)


valuation of debt and settlement of loans hedging instruments                         100               (9)


acquisition of subsidiary                                                                  -           375



                                                                                    3 363            6 810



net financial gearing                                                               11,5%            28,1%


net debt / ebitda before net impairment allowances                                   0,35             0,94




7.2.6.1. loans, borrowings and bonds




                                                        200

                          non-current                  current                       total



                    31/12/2016   31/12/2015     31/12/2016   31/12/2015    31/12/2016     31/12/2015


 loans                     653          3 975         286          1 025           939         5 000


 borrowings                  -             1            1             2              1            3


 bonds                   6 793          4 155         702              -          7 495        4 155



                         7 446          8 131         989          1 027          8 435        9 158



the orlen group bases its financing on fixed and floating interest rates. depending on the
currency of financing these are relevant interbank rates increased by margin. the margin reflects
risk connected with financing of the group and in case of some long-term contracts depends on
net debt/ebitda ratio.

on 10 march 2017 pkn orlen early repaid the long-term credit in the amount of pln 763 million
with interest due, under the agreement the maturity falling in 2025. the credit agreement
allowed the early repayment at the request of the borrower .

7.2.6.1.1. loans
- by currency (translated into pln)/ by interest rate
                                                                 31/12/2016          31/12/2015



 pln - wibor                                                               758                  975


 eur - euribor                                                              71                2 859


 usd - libor usd                                                              -                 605


 cad - libor cad                                                           110                  561



                                                                           939                5 000




                                                201

as at 31 december 2016 unused credit lines (note 7.3.5.4) increased by trade and other
receivables (note ‎7.2.5.2) and cash and cash equivalents exceeded trade and other liabilities
(note ‎7.2.5.3) by pln 11,144 million.
the group hedges partially cash flows related to interest payments regarding external financing
in eur and usd, by using interest rate swaps (irs).
in the period covered by the foregoing consolidated financial statements as well as after the
reporting date there were no cases of violations of loans or interests repayment.

as at 31 december 2016 there were no property, plant and equipment pledged as collateral for
loans of the group. as at 31 december 2015 pledge on property, plant and equipment as security
for loans amounted to pln 997 million and loans secured by these assets amounted to pln
361 million.

7.2.6.1.2. bonds
- by currency (translated into pln)
                                                                 31/12/2016           31/12/2015



 pln                                                                        2 017              2 017


 eur                                                                        5 478              2 138



                                                                            7 495              4 155




- by interest rate
                         fixed rate bonds             floating rate bonds              total



                       31/12/201   31/12/201     31/12/2016      31/12/2015    31/12/201    31/12/201
                           6       5                                               6            5


 nominal value             5 549        2 231            1 900        1 900         7 449      4 131


 carrying amount           5 579        2 239            1 916        1 916         7 495      4 155




                                                202

                                                         subscri
                                                          ption      maturit     base
                                  nominal value           date       y date      rate        margin      rating



                                  pln          eur


     a series                        200             -   28.05.20    28.05.20        6m        1,50%     a - (pol)
                                                               13          17     wibor


     b series                        200             -   03.06.20    03.06.20        6m        1,50%     a - (pol)
                                                               13          17     wibor


     c series                        200             -   06.11.20    06.11.20        6m        1,40%     a - (pol)
                                                               13          17     wibor


     d series                        100             -   14.11.20    14.11.20        6m        1,30%     a - (pol)
                                                               13          17     wibor


     e series                        200             -   02.04.20    02.04.20        6m        1,30%     a - (pol)
                                                               14          18     wibor


     f series                        100             -   09.04.20    09.04.20   fixed interest rate 5%   a - (pol)
                                                               14          20



     retail bonds                  1 000             -



     corporate bonds               1 000             -   27.02.20    27.02.20        6m        1,60%              -
                                                               12          19     wibor



     eurobonds                     2 131
                                           *
                                                 500     30.06.20    30.06.20      fixed interest rate     bbb-,
                                                               14          21                    2,5%      baa3


                                          **
     eurobonds                    3 318          750     07.06.20    07.06.20      fixed interest rate     bbb-,
                                                               16          23                    2,5%      baa3



     eurobonds                     5 449       1 250



                                   7 449       1 250




*
    translated into pln using the exchange rate as at 31 december 2014
**
     translated into pln using the exchange rate as at 31 december 2016


the difference between the nominal value and carrying amount of bonds results from
measurement of bonds according to amortized cost using the effective interest method.

                                                           203

7.2.6.2. equity management policy
equity management is performed on the group level in order to protect the group’s ability to
continue its operations as a going concern while maximizing returns for shareholders.

the management board monitors the following ratios:

      net financial gearing of the group - as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december
      2015 amounted to 11,5% and 28,1%, respectively;
      dividend per ordinary shares – depends on financial position of the group. in 2016 and in
      2015 the dividend of pln 2 per share and pln 1.65 per share was paid, respectively.

7.2.7. equity
selected accounting principles



share capital
equity paid by shareholders and stated at nominal value in accordance with the parent
company’s of association and the entry in the commercial register.
share capital as at 31 december 1996, in accordance with ias 29, § 24 and 25, was revalued
based on monthly price indices of consumer goods and services.

share premium
created by the surplus of the issuance value in excess of the nominal value of shares decreased
by issuance costs. capital from issue of shares above their nominal value as at 31 december
1996, in accordance with ias 29, § 24 and 25, was revalued based on monthly price indices of
consumer goods and services.

hedging reserve
relates to valuation and settlement of hedging instruments that meet the criteria of cash flow
hedge accounting.

exchange differences on translating foreign operations
result mainly from translation of the financial statements of the foreign companies into pln
under consolidation procedures.

retained earnings
include:

      reserve capital created and used in accordance with the commercial companies code,
      actuarial gains and losses from post-employment benefits,
      the current reporting period profit/loss,
      other capitals created and used according to the rules prescribed by law.



7.2.7.1. share capital


                                               204

                                                                       31/12/2016          31/12/2015



 share capital                                                                       535              535


 share capital revaluation adjustment                                                523              523



                                                                                  1 058              1 058



in accordance with the polish commercial register, the share capital of polski koncern naftowy
orlen s.a. as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 amounted to pln 535 million
and is divided into 427,709,061 ordinary shares with nominal value of pln 1.25 each.


                                            number of shares issued



         a series                b series           c series             d series            total


         336 000 000              6 971 496          77 205 641               7 531 924     427 709 061



in poland, each new issue of shares is labelled as a new series of shares. all of the above series
have the exact same rights.

shareholders’ structure


                                                  number of      nominal
                                                   shares /      value of       share in
                                                    voting      shares (in        share
                                                    rights        pln)           capital



 state treasury                                   117 710 196   147 137 745       27,52%


                             *
 nationale-nederlanden ofe                         35 590 112    44 487 640        8,32%



 aviva ofe*                                        30 000 000    37 500 000        7,01%


 other                                            244 408 753   305 510 941       57,15%



                                                  427 709 061   534 636 326      100,00%




                                                      205

*
 shareholders holding directly or indirectly via related parties, at least 5% of total votes at the extraordinary shareholders
meeting of pkn orlen s.a. held on 24 january 2017


7.2.7.2. share premium
                                                                                31/12/2016               31/12/2015



    nominal share premium                                                                  1 058                     1 058


    share premium revaluation adjustment                                                      169                      169



                                                                                           1 227                     1 227




7.2.7.3. hedging reserve




                                                             206

                                                                     2016              2015



 at the beginning of the period                                              (80)         (1 319)


   value gross                                                               (99)         (1 629)


   deferred tax                                                               19               310


 items of other comprehensive income                                        (396)           1 530


 settlement of hedging instruments,gross, incl.                              129            1 623


   sales revenues                                                            (67)             (226)


   cost of sales                                                             105              (120)


   inventories                                                                31            1 999


 valuation of hedging instruments, gross                                    (586)              (93)


 settlement of instruments - no hedged item                                   61                  -


 deferred tax from hedging instruments valuation and settlement               75              (291)


 items of other comprehensive income attributable to non-                     46                  -
 controlling interest



                                                                            (355)              (80)



   value gross                                                               440               (99)


   deferred tax                                                               85                19



on 30 june 2016 repayment of the loan tranche took place, for which interest flows hedge
accounting was applied. therefore, further evaluation of instruments is recognized in profit or
loss, and a part of the effective valuation at date of repayment was recognized in equity in the
amount pln (106) million. at the time of the expected cash flows, this amount will be settled for


                                                  207

as an adjustment to interest expenses.

7.2.7.4. retained earnings
                                                           31/12/2016     31/12/2015



 reserve capital                                                17 756         15 720


 other capital                                                     884            884


 actuarial gains and losses                                        (19)           (10)


 net profit for the period attributable to equity owners         5 261          2 837
 of the parent



                                                                23 882         19 431




7.2.7.5. equity attributable to non-controlling interest
                                                           31/12/2016     31/12/2015



 unipetrol group                                                 2 511          2 055


 other                                                              11             16



                                                                 2 522          2 071




                                                208

                                                           31/12/2016   31/12/2015



at the beginning of the period                                  2 071        1 615


share in profit net, incl.                                       479          396


  unipetrol group                                                481          397


share in items of other comprehensive income                      33           60


  hedging reserve, net                                           (46)            -


  exchange differences on translating foreign operations          79           60


change in the structure of non-controlling interest               (1)            -


paid and declared dividends                                      (60)            -



                                                                2 522        2 071



condensed financial information of unipetrol group




                                              209

                                      31/12/2016       31/12/2015



non-current assets                          5 259            3 542


current assets                              5 965            5 034


  cash                                        480              929


  other current assets                      5 485            4 105



total assets                               11 224            8 576



total equity                                6 799            5 571


non-current liabilities                       328              271


current liabilities, incl.                  4 097            2 734


  trade and other liabilities               3 762            2 476


  loans and borrowings                             3                -


total liabilities                           4 425            3 005



total equity and liabilities               11 224            8 576



net debt                                     (477)            (929)




                                210

                                                                            2016           2015



 sales revenues                                                               14 179         16 669


 cost of sales, incl.:                                                       (13 438)       (14 726)


   depreciation and amortisation                                                   (316)          (284)


 gross profit on sales                                                              741       1 943


 distribution expenses                                                             (401)          (316)


 administrative expenses                                                           (237)          (200)


 net other operating income and expenses, incl.                                1 512               (96)


   reversal / recognition of impairment allowances of property, plant and           300           (111)
 equipment and intangible assets


   penalties and compensations earned                                          1 194               (15)


 profit from operations                                                        1 615          1 331


 net finance income and costs                                                        21             (7)


 profit before tax                                                             1 636          1 324


 tax expense                                                                       (337)          (252)



 net profit                                                                    1 299          1 072



 items of other comprehensive income                                                 92            162


 total net comprehensive income                                                1 391          1 234



in 2016 and in 2015, there were no significant restrictions in entities with significant non-
controlling interest resulting from credit agreements, regulatory requirements and other
contractual arrangements that restrict access to assets and settlement of liabilities of the group.




                                                       211

7.2.7.6. proposal to distribution of the parent
company’s profit for 2016
dividend policy of the group assumes a gradual increase in the level of dividend per share by
taking into account the implementation of strategic financial objectives and forecasts of the
macroeconomic situation. this method does not relate the rate of dividend to net profit, which in
the orlen group’s area of operations is subject to high fluctuations and can include non-cash
items, such as revaluation of assets, inventories or loans, distorting the view of the current
financial situation of the group.

the management board of pkn orlen, after considering the liquidity situation and
achievement of strategic financial objectives, proposes to distribute the net profit of pkn orlen
for the year 2016 in the amount of pln 5,364,455,552.64 as follows: pln 1,283,127,183 will be
allocated as a dividend payment (pln 3 per 1 share) and the remaining amount of pln
4,081,328,369.64 as reserve capital. the management board of pkn orlen recommends 14 july
2017 as the dividend date and 4 august 2017 as the dividend payment date. this
recommendation of the management board will be presented to the general shareholders’
meeting of pkn orlen, which will make a conclusive decision in this matter.

7.2.7.7. distribution of the parent company’s profit for
2015
pursuant to article 395 § 2 point 2 of the commercial code and § 7 sec. 7 point 3 of the parent
company’s articles of association, the ordinary general shareholders’ meeting of pkn orlen
s.a. on 3 june 2016, having analysed the motion of the management board, decided to distribute
the net profit of pkn orlen for the year 2015 of pln 1,047,519,491.84 as follows: the amount of
pln 855,418,122 for dividend payment (pln 2 per 1 share) and the remaining amount of net
profit of pln 192,101,369.84 as reserve capital.




                                               212

7.2.8. embedded derivatives and hedging instruments
and other assets and liabilities
embedded derivatives and hedging instruments and other assets




                                            213

embedded derivatives and hedging instruments and other liabilities




                                              214

                                           non-current                             current                                  total



                                    31/12/2016        31/12/2015          31/12/2016        31/12/2015        31/12/2016            31/12/2015


cash flows hedging                          190               239                 376               764               566                1 003
instruments


  currency forwards                              42                 -             117                    11           159                  11


  interest rate swaps                             -                92                   -                 -                 -              92


  commodity swaps                                28                48             228               753               256                 801


  currency interest rate                    120                    99                  31                 -           151                  99
swaps


derivatives not designated as                    90                 -                  25                1            115                   1
hedge accounting


  currency forwards                               -                 -                  4                 1                  4               1


  commodity swaps                                 -                 -                  21                 -                21                -


  interest rate swaps                            90                 -                   -                 -                90                -


embedded derivatives                              -                 -                  2                 2                  2               2


  currency swaps                                  -                 -                  2                 2                  2               2



embedded derivatives and                    280               239                 403               767               683                1 006
hedging instruments



other financial liabilities                 280               465                 169               103               449                 568


  liabilities on cash flows                       -                 -             169               103               169                 103
settled hedging instruments


  investment liabilities                    111               300                       -                 -           111                 300


  finance lease                             141               140                       -                 -           141                 140


  other                                          28                25                   -                 -                28              25


other non-financial liabilities                   9                8              145               200               154                 208


  deferred income                                 9                8              145               128               154                 136


  liabilities directly associated                 -                 -                   -                72                 -              72
with assets classified as held
for sale



other liabilities                           289               473                 314               303               603                 776




                                                                        215

7.2.9. provisions
selected accounting principles



provisions
the amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle
the present obligation at the end of the reporting period.

environmental provision
the group creates provisions for future liabilities due to reclamation of contaminated land or
water or elimination of harmful substances if there is such a legal or constructive obligation.
environmental provision for reclamation is periodically reviewed on the basis of contaminated
assessment. changes in the value of provision increase or decrease in the current period the
value of assets to reclamation. in case of increase of provision is higher than carrying amount of
the asset, the amount of that excess is recognized in profit or loss.

jubilee bonuses and post-employment benefits
under the remuneration plans employees of the group are entitled to jubilee bonuses, paid to
employees after an elapse of a defined number of years in service as well as retirement and
pension benefits, paid once at retirement or pension. the amount of above benefits and jubilee
bonuses depends on the number of years in service and an employee’s average remuneration.
the jubilee bonuses are other long-term employee benefits, whereas retirement and pension
benefits are classified as post-employment defined benefit plans.
provisions are determined by an independent actuary and revalued if there are any indications
impacting their value, taking into account the staff turnover and planned growth of wages.
actuarial gains and losses from post-employment benefits are recognized in components of other
comprehensive income and from other employment benefits are recognized in profit or loss.

co2 emissions, energy certificates
the group recognizes the estimated co2 emissions costs during the reporting period in operating
activity costs (taxes and charges). provision is recognized based on the value of allowances
taking into account the principle of fifo. in case of a shortage of allowances, the provision is
created based on the purchase price of allowance concluded in forward contracts or market
quotations at the reporting date.
during the reporting period the group recognizes provision for the estimated volume of energy
 rights and energy efficiency certificates for depreciation, which is recognized as a reduction of
revenues from sales of energy.

other provisions
other provisions include mainly provisions for legal proceedings and are recognized after
consideration of all available information, including the opinions of independent experts.
the group recognizes provisions if at the end of the reporting period the group is an obligation
arising from past events that can be reliably estimated and it is probable that fulfilment of this
obligation will cause an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits.



estimates


                                                216

recognition of provisions requires estimates of the probable outflow of resources embodying
economic benefits and defining the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the
present obligation at the end of the reporting period. provisions are recognized when the
probability of outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is higher than 50%.




                           non-current                current                   total



                       31/12/201   31/12/201    31/12/201   31/12/201   31/12/201    31/12/201
                           6           5            6           5           6            5


 environmental              570          450           38          39         608             489


 jubilee bonuses and        212          217           33          36         245             253
 post-employment
 benefits


 co₂ emissions,                -           -         365         466          365             466
 energy certificates


 other                        46          43         230         208          276             251



                            828          710         666         749        1 494        1 459




                                               217

changes in provisions


                                               jubilee
                                            bonuses and
                                                post-          co₂
                                            employment     emissions,
                             environment      benefits       energy         other
                             al provision    provision     certificates   provisions   total



 01/01/2016                           489           253            466          251      1 459


 recognition                          154            10            354          118        636


 reversal                             (4)              -           (63)        (140)     (207)


 usage                               (44)           (20)         (397)          (61)     (522)


 sale of subsidiary                   (8)              -              -            -           (8)


 foreign exchange                      21             2              5          108        136
 differences



                                      608           245            365          276      1 494



 01/01/2015                           451           284            343          279      1 357


 recognition                           62             6            461           64        593


 reversal                             (9)              -             2          (24)      (31)


 usage                               (38)           (37)         (367)          (56)     (498)


 acquisition of subsidiary             27              -              -            -           27


 foreign exchange                     (4)              -            27          (12)           11
 differences



                                      489           253            466          251      1 459




                                              218

                                                                  2016                2015



 change in provisions presented in the statement of                        35                102
 financial position


 usage of prior year provision for co₂ emissions, energy                 392                 367
 certificates


 capitalization of environmental provision                               (56)                   -


 foreign exchange differences                                            (28)                  21


 other                                                                   (13)                (27)



 change in provisions in the statement of cash flows                     330                 463




7.2.9.1. environmental provision
the group has legal obligation to clean contaminated land – water environment in the area of
production plants, fuel stations, fuel terminals and warehouses.
the management board estimated the provision for environmental risks based on analyses
provided by independent experts or based on current and expected costs of removal of
contaminants.

in the czech republic, the government is responsible for liabilities arising from contamination of
land-water environment before date of entity’s privatization. in case of new contamination that
arose after this date the group is responsible for those liabilities.
in 2016, due to the planned in 2017 cease of production of chlorine using mercury electrolysis in
spolana a.s, unipetrol group recognized provision for the estimated costs of plant for the
production of chlorine using the mercury electrolysis liquidation in the amount of approximately
pln 21 million.
as at 31 december 2016 the balance of provision for liquidation and contaminations clean up
costs in the plant amounted to pln 27 million translated using the exchange rate as at
31 december 2016 (representing czk 163 million).

moreover, at the stage of development and extraction of mineral resources the group recognizes
provisions for the cost of removal of drillings and supporting infrastructure.
increase in the provision results from the updating of present value estimates of investment
expenditures required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date.




                                               219

7.2.9.2. provision for jubilee bonuses and post-
employment benefits
change in employee benefits obligations


                                      jubilee bonuses          post-employment
                                         provision                 benefits                  total



                           note     31/12/201   31/12/201     31/12/201   31/12/201   31/12/20   31/12/20
                                        6           5             6           5          16         15


 at the beginning of the                 150           163         103         121        253        284
 period


 current service costs                      6            7           3           3           9         10


 interest expenses                          5            4           3           3           8          7


 actuarial gains and                     (16)            4          10          (4)        (6)          -
 losses arising from
 changes in assumptions:


  demographic                            (19)            2           3           2        (16)          4


  financial                               (4)           (7)         (2)         (7)        (6)       (14)


  other                                     7            9           9           1          16         10


 past employment costs                    (4)           (7)          5          (8)          1       (15)


 payments under                          (15)        (16)           (4)        (10)       (19)       (26)
 program


 other                                    11            (5)        (12)         (2)        (1)        (7)



                            7.2.9        137           150         108         103        245        253




the carrying amount of employee benefits liabilities is identical to their present value as at
31 december 2016 and 31 december 2015.




                                                 220

employee benefits liabilities divided into active and retired employees


                          active employees              retired employees               total



                       31/12/2016   31/12/2015      31/12/201     31/12/201     31/12/201   31/12/201
                                                        6             5             6           5


 poland                       189          196               32          34          221         230


 czech republic                17            14               -             -         17          14


 lithuania, latvia,             7             9               -             -           7           9
 estonia



                              213          219               32          34          245         253




                                                  221

                            jubilee bonuses provision    post-employment benefits                  total



                            31/12/2016    31/12/2015     31/12/2016       31/12/2015       31/12/2016   31/12/2015


 employee benefits
 liabilities divided into
 geographical structure


 poland                            132           147              89               83            221          230


 czech republic                      5             3              12               12             17           15


 lithuania, latvia,                   -             -                 7                8           7            8
 estonia



                                   137           150             108              103            245          253



 maturity of employee
 benefits analysis


 up to 1 year                       16            24              17               12             33           36


 above 1 to 5 years                 51            45              13               15             64           60


 above 5 years                      70            81              78               76            148          157



                                   137           150             108              103            245          253



 employee benefits
 payments analysis


 up to 1 year                       15            24              16               12             31           36


 above 1 to 5 years                 59            60              22               17             81           77


 above 1 to 5 years                264           322             515              527            779          849



                                   338           406             553              556            891          962




the weighted average duration of liabilities for post-employment benefits in 2016 and in
2015 amounted to: poland 9 and 11 years, czech republic 10 in both years and lithuania, latvia,
estonia 10 and 14 years, respectively.

in 2016 the amount of provision for employee benefits changed as the result of update of


                                                        222

assumptions, mainly in relation to discount rate, projected inflation and expected remuneration
increase ratio. should the 2015 assumptions be used, the provision for the employee benefits
would be lower by pln (22) million.

sensitivity analysis to changes in actuarial assumptions
as at 31 december 2016, the group used the following actuarial assumptions that had an impact
on the level of actuarial provisions for the polish entities: discount rate 3.5%, expected inflation
1.3% in 2017, 1.5% in 2018 and 2.5% in subsequent years the remuneration increase rate: 0% in
years 2017-2018 and 2.5% in subsequent years. in the group's foreign entities the main impact
had: value of discount rate: from 0.56% to 0.85%.
the group analysed the impact of the financial and demographic assumptions and calculated
that the changes of ratios: remuneration ratio by +/- 1 p.p., the discount rate by +/- 0.5 p.p. and
the rate of turnover by +/- 0.5 p.p. in poland, czech, lithuania, latvia and estonia are no higher
than pln 8 million. therefore, the group does not present any detailed information.
the group carries out the employee benefit payments from current resources. as at
31 december 2015 there were no funded plans and the group paid no contributions to fund
liabilities.

7.2.9.3. provision for co2 emissions, energy certificates
provision for co2 emissions, energy certificates comprises mainly recognition of the provisions for
estimated in the reporting period, the cost of co2 emissions. as at 31 december 2016 and as at
31 december 2015 the value of the provision amounted to pln 353 million and pln 440 million,
respectively.

7.2.9.4. other provisions
as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 other provisions comprise mainly
provisions for the risk of unfavourable decisions of pending administrative or court proceedings of
pln 192 million and pln 170 million, respectively.

7.3. explanatory notes to the financial
instruments and financial risk
selected accounting principles



financial instruments

measurement of financial assets and liabilities
at initial recognition, the group measures financial assets and liabilities at their fair value plus, in
the case of a financial asset or a financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss (i.e. held
for trading), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the
financial asset or financial liability. the group does not classify instruments as measured at fair
value through profit or loss upon initial recognition, i.e. does not apply the fair value options.
at the end of the reporting period, the group measures item of financial assets and liabilities at
amortised cost using effective interest rate method, except for derivatives, which are measured
at fair value.


                                                   223

gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value of derivatives, for which hedge accounting
is not applicable, are recognized in the current year profit or loss.

hedge accounting
derivatives designated as hedging instruments whose cash flows are expected to offset changes
in the cash flows of a hedged item are accounted for in accordance with the cash flow hedge
accounting.
the group assess effectiveness of cash flow hedge at the inception of the hedge and later, at
minimum, at reporting date. in case of cash flow hedge accounting, the group recognizes in other
comprehensive income part of profits and losses connected with the effective part of the hedge,
whereas profits or losses connected with the ineffective part - under profit or loss.
the group uses statistical methods, in particular regression analysis, to assess effectiveness of
the hedge.
if a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or
a financial liability, the associated gains or losses that were recognized in other comprehensive
income are reclassified to profit or loss of the reporting period in the same period or periods
during which the asset acquired, or liability assumed, affects profit or loss.
however, if the group expects that all or a portion of a loss recognized in other comprehensive
income will not be recovered in one or more future periods, it reclassifies the amount that is not
expected to be recovered to profit or loss.
if a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial
asset or a non-financial liability, or a forecast transaction for a non-financial asset or non-financial
liability becomes a firm commitment for which fair value hedge accounting is applied, the group
removes the associated gains and losses that were recognized in the other comprehensive
income and includes them in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the asset or liability.
if a hedge of a forecast transaction results in the recognition of revenue from sales of products,
merchandise, materials or services, the group removes the associated gains or losses that were
recognized in the other comprehensive income and adjusts these revenues.

fair value measurement
the group maximizes the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizes the use of
unobservable inputs to meet the objective of fair value measurement, which is to estimate the
price at which an orderly transaction to transfer the liability or equity instrument would take
place between market participants as at the measurement date under current market conditions.
the group measures derivatives at fair value using valuation models for financial instruments
based on generally available exchange rates, interest rates, forward and volatility curves, for
currencies and commodities quoted on active markets.the fair value of derivatives is based on
discounted future flows related to contracted transactions as the difference between term price
and transaction price.
forward exchange rates are not modelled as a separate risk factor, but derives from the spot rate
and the respective forward interest rate for foreign currency in relation to pln.
derivative instruments are presented as assets, when their valuation is positive and as liabilities,
when their valuation is negative.



professional judgements




                                                  224

financial instruments
the management board assesses the classification of financial instruments, nature and extent of
risk related to financial instruments and application of the cash flow hedge accounting. the
financial instruments are classified into different categories depending on the purpose of the
purchase and nature of acquired assets.



7.3.1. financial instruments by category and class




                                              225

        inancial instruments by category and class       note         31/12/2016   31/12/2015    financial instruments by category



assets


unquoted shares                                             7.2.8             40           40   available for sale


embedded derivatives and derivatives not designated as      7.2.8              5            9   at fair value through profit or loss
hedge accounting


hedging instruments                                         7.2.8            158          932   hedging financial instruments


                                                                          12 699        7 949   loans and receivables


trade receivables                                         7.2.5.2          7 161        5 397   loans and receivables


cash and cash equivalents                                                  5 072        2 348   loans and receivables


receivables on cash flows settled hedging instruments       7.2.8            149          159   loans and receivables


other                                                     7.2.5.2            317           45   loans and receivables
                                                            7.2.8



                                                                          12 902        8 930



liabilities


embedded derivatives and derivatives not designated as      7.2.8            117            3   at fair value through profit or loss
hedge accounting


hedging instruments                                         7.2.8            566        1 003   hedging financial instruments


finance lease                                             7.2.5.3            170          166   excluded from the scope of ias 39
                                                            7.2.8


                                                                          17 803       16 699   measured at amortised cost


loans                                                    7.2.6.1.1           939        5 000   measured at amortised cost


borrowings                                                7.2.6.1              1            3   measured at amortised cost


bonds                                                    7.2.6.1.2         7 495        4 155   measured at amortised cost


trade liabilities                                         7.2.5.3          7 549        5 430   measured at amortised cost


investment liabilities                                    7.2.5.3          1 509        1 808   measured at amortised cost
                                                            7.2.8


liabilities on cash flows settled hedge instruments         7.2.8            169          103   measured at amortised cost


other                                                     7.2.5.3            141          200   measured at amortised cost
                                                            7.2.8



                                                                          18 656       17 871




                                                                226

7.3.2. income, expense, profit and loss in the
consolidated statement of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income
                                                                                       financial instruments by
                                           note             2016         2015                  category



interest income                             7.1.6.1                59           82    loans and receivables


interest costs                              7.1.6.2           (216)        (205)


                                                              (211)        (194)      measured at amortised cost


                                                                    4           (4)   hedging financial instruments
                                                                                      (ineffective part)


                                                                   (9)          (7)   excluded from the scope of
                                                                                      ias 39


recognition/reversal of receivables                            (12)         (27)      loans and receivables
impairment allowances


 other operating income/expenses              7.1.4            (12)         (30)      loans and receivables
                                              7.1.5


 finance income/costs                       7.1.6.1                  -           3    loans and receivables
                                            7.1.6.2


financial instruments gains/(losses)                          (484)        (518)


                                                                   209          186   loans and receivables


                                                              (756)        (529)      measured at amortised cost


                                                                   48      (175)      at fair value through profit or
                                                                                      loss


                                                                   10           (2)   hedging financial instruments
                                                                                      (ineffective part)


                                                                    5            2    available for sale



                                                              (653)        (668)



other, excluded from the scope of ifrs 7                           (4)          (4)




                                                      227

7.3.3. fair value measurement
31/12/2016


                                                                 fair value hierarchy



                         note        carrying       fair value   level 1       level 2
                                     amount


 financial assets


 embedded                   7.2.8         163             163              -        163
 derivatives and
 hedging instruments


                                          163             163              -        163


 financial liabilities


 loans                   7.2.6.1.1        939             941              -        941


 borrowings               7.2.6.1               1            1             -             1


 bonds                   7.2.6.1.2       7 495           7 811      7 811                -


 finance lease            7.2.5.3         170             182              -        182
                            7.2.8


 embedded                   7.2.8         683             683              -        683
 derivatives and
 hedging instruments



                                         9 288           9 618      7 811         1 807




                                         228

31/12/2015


                                                                           fair value hierarchy



                              note          carrying       fair value      level 1         level 2
                                            amount


 financial assets


 embedded                        7.2.8            941             941                -          941
 derivatives and
 hedging instruments



                                                  941             941                -          941



 financial liabilities


 loans                        7.2.6.1.1         5 000           5 003                -        5 003


 borrowings                     7.2.6.1                3            3                -               3


 bonds                        7.2.6.1.2         4 155           4 193          4 193                 -


 finance lease                  7.2.5.3           166             180                -          180
                                  7.2.8


 embedded                        7.2.8          1 006           1 006                -        1 006
 derivatives and
 hedging instruments



                                               10 330         10 385           4 193          6 192



for other classes of financial assets and liabilities fair value represents their carrying amount.




                                                 229

7.3.3.1. methods applied in determining fair value (fair
value hierarchy)
financial liabilities due to loans, bonds, finance lease and liabilities and receivables for
borrowings are measured at fair value using discounted cash flows method. discount rates are
calculated based on market interest rates according to quotations of 1- month, 3-months and 6-
months interest rates increased by proper margins for particular financial instruments.
as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 the group held unquoted shares in
entities, for which fair value cannot be reliably measured, due to the fact that there are no active
markets for these entities and no comparable transactions in the same type of instruments were
noted. the value of shares of these entities was recognized in the consolidated statement of
financial position as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december 2015 of pln 40 million at
acquisition cost less impairment allowances. as at 31 december 2016 and as at 31 december
2015 the group did not intend to sell financial instruments classified as available for sale, for
which it is not possible to determine fair value.
during the reporting period and comparative period there were no reclassifications of financial
instruments in group between level 1 and 2 of fair value hierarchy.

7.3.4. hedge accounting
net carrying amount of cash flows hedging instruments


                                                note        31/12/2016    31/12/2015



 type of instruments / type of risk                                                     hedging strategies


 currency forwards / risk of exchange                             (115)          112    operating and investing
 rates changes                                                                          activity; sales of products
                                                                                        and purchase of crude oil;


 commodity swaps / commodity risk                                 (142)            8    operational inventories,
                                                                                        refining margin, time
                                                                                        mismatch occurring on
                                                                                        purchases of crude oil, risk
                                                                                        of crude oil prices on
                                                                                        arbitrage transactions cash
                                                                                        & carry, offers for which
                                                                                        price formulas are based on
                                                                                        fixed price;


 currency interest rate swaps / risk of                           (151)          (99)   interest payments;
 interest rates changes


 interest rate swaps / risk of interest rates                         -          (92)   interest payments
 changes



                                                   7.2.8          (408)          (71)




planned realization date of hedged cash flows which will be recognized in the profit or loss


                                                           230

                                                           31/12/2016         31/12/2015



 currency operating exposure                                   2017-2018          2016-2018


 finance currency exposure                                          2017          2016-2017


 interest rate exposure                                        2017-2019          2016-2020


 commodity risk exposure                                       2017-2018          2016-2017




7.3.5. risk identification
risk management is mainly focused on the unpredictability of markets and aims to minimize any
potential negative impacts on the group's financial results.




                                             231

                                                              measurement of
 type of risk                  exposure                         exposure                             management/hedging



 commodity        - risk of changes in refining and         based on planned cash       market risk management policy and hedging
                  petrochemical margins on sale of          flows.                      strategies, which define principles of measurement
                  products and ural/brent differential                                  of individual exposure, parameters and the time
                  fluctuations;                                                         horizon of risk hedging and hedging instruments.
                  - risk of changes in crude oil and
                  products prices related to the time
                  mismatch;
                  - risk of changes in co₂ emission
                  rights prices;
                  - risk of changes in crude oil and
                  refinery product prices related to
                  the obligation to maintain
                  mandatory reserves of crude oil
                  and fuels;
                  - risk of changes in commodity
                  prices on arbitrage transactions
                  cash & carry involving acquisition of
                  crude oil or products for stock in
                  order to sell them or process them
                  at a later date


 exchange         - economic currency exposure              based on planned cash       market risk management policy and hedging
 rates changes    resulting from inflows decrease by        flows.                      strategies, which define principles of measurement
                  expenses indexed to or                    based on analysis of        of individual exposure, parameters and the time
                  denominated in other than the             balance sheet               horizon of risk hedging and hedging instruments.
                  functional currency;                      positions.
                  - currency exposure resulting from
                  investment or probable liabilities
                  and receivables in foreign
                  currencies;
                  - balance sheet exposure resulting
                  from assets and liabilities
                  denominated in foreign currency


 interest rates   exposure resulting from owned             based on total gross        market risk management policy and hedging
 changes          assets and liabilities for which          debt to positions for       strategies, which define principles of measurement
                  interest gains or losses are              which interest costs        of individual exposure, parameters and the time
                  dependent on floating interest            are dependent on            horizon of risk hedging and hedging instruments.
                  rates.                                    floating interest rate.


 liquidity        risk of unforeseen shortage of cash       based on planned cash       short-term liquidity risk management policy, which
                  or lack of access to financing            flows in short and long-    defines rules of reporting and consolidation of
                  sources, both in the horizon of short     term horizon.               liquidity of pkn orlen and orlen group entities.
                  and long-term borrowing, leading to                                   group carries out a policy of its financing sources
                  temporary or permanent loss of                                        diversification and uses range of tools for effective
                  ability to pay financial liabilities or                               liquidity management.
                  imposing the need to obtain funds
                  on unfavourable terms.


 losing cash      risk of bankruptcy of domestic or         short-term credit           management based on principles of surplus cash
 and deposits     foreign banks, in which accounts          rating of bank.             management, which determine possibility of
                  are kept or in which cash is                                          granting quotas for individual banks made on the
                  invested for a short time.                                            basis of, among others, ratings of investment and
                                                                                        reporting data.


 credit           risk of unsettled receivables for         analysis of creditability   management based on procedures and policies
                  delivered products and services by        and solvency of             adopted for management of trade credit and debt
                  customers. credit risk is also            customers.                  recovery.
                  related to the creditability of
                  customers with whom sales
                  transactions are concluded.




the orlen group applies a consistent financial risk hedging policy based on market risk


                                                                    232

management policy supported and supervised by the financial risk committee, the management
board and the supervisory board.

7.3.5.1. commodity risk
the impact of commodity hedging instruments on the group's financial statements


                                                        unit of
       type of hedged raw material/product             measure        31/12/2016     31/12/2015



 crude oil                                                     bbl    16 574 715      9 160 200


 gas                                                            gj     7 300 000         15 000


 other                                                            t        400 710    1 351 801



the net carrying amount of hedging instruments for commodity risk as at 31 december 2016 and
as at 31 december 2015 amounted to pln (142) million and pln 8 million, respectively.

sensitivity analysis for changes in prices of products and raw materials

analysis of the influence of changes in the carrying amount of financial instruments on hedging
reserve to a hypothetical change in prices of products and raw materials:




                                               233

                                    2016                 2016            2015             2015



                                 increase of           total           increase of         total
                                    prices           influence            prices         influence


 crude oil usd/bbl;cad/bbl               45%                (817)              19%               (92)


 diesel usd/t                            42%                    (28)           17%               (38)


 gasoline usd/t                          41%                     (8)           21%               (62)


 naphta usd/t                                  -                   -           21%                (9)


 heating oil usd/t                       53%                     33            20%                11


 jet fuel usd/t                                -                   -           16%                   4


 gas cad/gj                              42%                    (31)                 -               -



                                                            (851)                              (186)



at decrease in prices in 2016 and 2015, respectively by the same percentage, sensitivity analysis
assumes values with the opposite sign in comparison to the table above.
applied for the sensitivity analysis of commodity risk hedging instruments variations of crude oil
and products prices were calculated based on volatility and available analysts’ forecasts.
the influence of changes of prices was presented on annual basis.
in case of derivatives, the influence of crude oil, and products prices variations on fair value were
examined at constant level of currency rates.




                                                   234

7.3.5.2. the risk of exchange rates changes
currency structure of financial instruments as at 31 december 2016




                                             235

information concerning significant proceedings
 information concerning significant proceedings in front
  of court, body appropriate for arbitration proceedings
        or in front of public administration bodies
as at 31 december 2016 the orlen group entities were parties in the following significant
proceedings in front of court, body appropriate for arbitration proceedings or in front of public
administration bodies:

8.1. proceedings in which the orlen group entities act
as the defendant
8.1.1. proceedings with the total value exceeding 10%
of the issuer’s equity
risk connected with the disposal of assets and liabilities related to purchase of unipetrol shares
the claim regarding the payment of compensation for losses related among others, to alleged
unfair competition of pkn orlen included in agrofert holding a.s. (agrofert) claim and alleged
illegal violation of reputation of agrofert in relation to purchase by pkn orlen of unipetrol
shares. by judgment of 21 october 2010 the court of arbitration ("the court of arbitration”) in
prague (czech republic) dismissed the entire claim of agrofert against pkn orlen regarding the
payment of pln 3,186 million translated using the exchange rate as at 31 december
2016 (representing czk 19,464 million) with interest and obliged agrofert to cover the cost of
proceedings born by pkn orlen. on 3 october 2011 pkn orlen received from the upper court in
prague agrofert’s claim which repealed the above judgment. the complaint was dismissed by the
court with the ruling of 24 january 2014. on 7 april 2014 agrofert appealed the above decision.
on 7 april 2015 the court of appeals dismissed the appeal of agrofert. on 4 september
2015 agrofert appealed to the czech supreme court against the above judgment. on september
2016, the supreme court dismissed agrofert claim. in november 2016 agrofert appealed to the
czech constitutional court against that decision. pkn orlen is taking legal actions in order to
retain the above mentioned favorable judgments issued in this case.

8.1.2. other significant proceedings with the total value
not exceeding 10% of the issuer’s equity
tax proceedings in orlen południe s.a. (previously rafineria trzebinia s.a.)
on 14 may 2014 and 20 may 2014 the company received the decisions of the head of the
customs office in kraków determining excise tax liabilities for the months: may - august 2004 in
the amount of pln 132 million. rafineria trzebinia s.a. paid the entire liability with interest using
at the same time, provisions recognized for this purpose in prior years. rafineria trzebnia s.a.
appealed to the voivodship administrative court (“vac”) in kraków against the above decisions.
on 26 february 2015 the vac in kraków announced a judgment dismissing the company’s
claims. on 5 may 2015 the company submitted to the supreme administrative court (“sac”) in
warsaw annulment claims against the judgement of the vac, that were not recognized until the
date of approval of the foregoing financial statements.



                                                 236

in view of the issue by the european court of justice in luxembourg judgement in a similar case
the company has submitted applications for renewal of administrative proceedings. director of
the customs chamber in kraków by a decision issued on 23 july 2015 refused to reopen the
proceedings due to the ongoing proceedings before the sac in the cases final decisions for may –
august 2004. the company filed an appeal regarding the decisions of the director of the customs
chamber in kraków refusing to reopen the proceedings, which were dismissed. the company
filed complaints against above decisions on 16 november 2015, which the vac in kraków
dismissed on 11 february 2016. on 28 april 2016 the company submitted to the sac annulment
claims against the above described proceedings. these annulment claims were not recognized
until the date of the approval of the foregoing financial statements.

i.p.-95 s.r.o. compensation claim against unipetrol rpa s.r.o.
on 23 may 2012, unipetrol rpa s.r.o. received from the district court in ostrava a claim
brought by i.p.-95 s.r.o. for compensation related to the filing by unipetrol rpa s.r.o. a motion
for bankruptcy of i.p.-95 s.r.o. in november 2009. the total amount of the claim is approximately
pln 293 million, translated using the exchange rate as at 31 december 2016 (representing czk
1,789 million). unipetrol rpa s.r.o. is one of eight defendants which the claim was brought
against. according to unipetrol rpa s.r.o the claim is without merit. the parties expect the
further steps in the proceedings.

claim of obr s.a. for compensation
on 5 september 2014, the company obr s.a. filled an action against pkn orlen with the district
court in łódź for a claim for payment in respect of an alleged breach by pkn orlen of patent
rights: ‘the technique of the separation of hydrodesulfurization products of heavy residue after
extractive distillation of crude oil’. the amount of the claim in the lawsuit has been estimated by
obr s.a. of approximately pln 83 million. the claim covers the adjudged sum of money from pkn
orlen for obr s.a. in the amount corresponding to the value of the license fee for the use of the
solution under the above patent and adjudge the obligation to repay the benefits derived from
the use of this solution. on 16 october 2014, pkn orlen responded to the lawsuit. by the
procedural document from 11 december 2014, the value of the dispute was referred to by the
plaintiff in the amount of approximately pln 247 million. by the court order from 21 may
2015 the parties were directed to mediation. mediation proceedings were completed. the case
was referred to the district court in łódź. the first hearing was held on 19 october 2016. the
hearing fixed on 4 january 2017 did not take place. the new date of hearing was scheduled for
22 march 2017. in the opinion of pkn orlen the above claims are without merit.

8.2. court proceedings in which the orlen group
entities act as a plaintiff
arbitration proceedings against basell europe holdings b.v.
on 20 december 2012 pkn orlen sent an arbitration request to basell europe holdings b.v.
regarding an ad hoc proceeding before the court of arbitration in london on compensation
relating to joint venture agreement signed in 2002 between pkn orlen and basell europe
holdings b.v. on 12 may 2016, the court of arbitration sent a judgment to the parties in which
dismissed all claims of pkn orlen and adjudged the return of proceeding’s expenses to the
basell europe holdings bv. after analysis of the possibilities of appeal pkn orlen decided not to
complain against an annulment of judgment, which ends the proceedings in the case.



                                               237

the dispute between orlen lietuva and lietuvos geležinkeliai
on 31 december 2014, orlen lietuva filed a motion for arbitration against the company
lietuvos gelezinkeliai (“lg”) in the court of arbitration in vilnius. currently in this proceeding
orlen lietuva calls for the conversion of tariffs for rail transport in line with the contract with lg
for the period from january 2014. orlen lietuva applied also for the compensation due to an
incorrect interpretation of the agreement on rail transport by lg by using incorrect rates.
consideration of the request of orlen lietuva would lead - depending on the interpretation
adopted by the court of arbitration - to save for the company in the amount estimated until
october 2016 not less than pln 181 million translated using the exchange rate as at
31 december 2016 (representing not less than eur 41 million) or to receive compensation for the
use of incorrect rates in the amount of pln 442 million translated using the exchange rate as at
31 december 2016 (representing eur 100 million).

simultaneously, by 31 december 2016, seven court proceedings were initiated in which lg
demands from orlen lietuva a payment of approximately pln 166 million translated using the
exchange rate as at 31 december 2016 (representing approximately eur 37.5 million) from fees
for rail transport of orlen lietuva products. three of the above described proceedings were
combined and then the court decided that the combined case will not be considered by the state
court since the priority of the court of arbitration which was confirmed by the court of appeal
order. then the case was the subject of recognition by the lithuanian supreme court, which
decided that the case may be considering on the merits by the state court, because the claim of
lg can be considered as a separate receivables for another period of implementation of the
agreement. proceeding in the fourth case was suspended by the state court until the court of
arbitration decides on the claim of orlen lietuva, while in the fifth and sixth proceeding the
state court refused to open the proceeding also due to the jurisdiction of the court of arbitration.
lg appealed against the above decisions of state courts and proceedings on appeal are in
progress. orlen lietuva appealed to the court of appeal against the decision to open proceeding
in the seventh case and expects the court decision.




                                                 238

orlen group structure and joint arrangements
9.1. sgroup structure
selected accounting principles



principles of consolidation
the consolidated financial statements of the group include assets, liabilities, equity, income,
expenses and cash flows of the parent company and its subsidiaries that are presented as those
of a single economic entity and are prepared as at the same reporting period as separate
financial statements of the parent company and using uniform accounting principles in relation to
similar transactions and other events in similar circumstances.
the subsidiaries are consolidated using full consolidation method and joint operations by
recognition of respective share in assets, liabilities, revenues and cost. the joint ventures as well
as investments in associates are accounted for under equity method.
the group's share in profit or loss of the investee is recognized in the group's profit or loss as
other operating activity.
for investments in subsidiaries - non-controlling interests shall be presented in the consolidated
statement of financial position as non-controlling interest, separately from the equity of the
owners of the parent company.
for investments in associates - the group has a significant influence if it holds, directly or
indirectly (i.e. through subsidiaries), from 20% to 49% of the voting rights of an entity, unless it
can be clearly stated otherwise.



professional judgements



investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities
the group, regardless of the nature of its involvement in the entity (the entity in which it
invested) defines its status by assessment, whether it controls the entity in which the investment
was made, and whether it has a joint control in a joint venture, after consideration of all the facts
and circumstances.



pkn orlen as the parent company is a multi-segment entity, appropriately allocated to all
operating segments and corporate functions.




                                                 239

                                                                                                                              consolidation method/
                 name of entity                      parent company              share in total voting rights                   valuation method



                                                                            31/12/2016                  31/12/2015


downstream segment


orlen lietuva group


ab orlen lietuva                                 pkn orlen s.a.                          100%                         100%             full


uab mazeikiu naftos prekybos namai               ab orlen lietuva                        100%                         100%             full


ou orlen eesti                                   uab mezeikiu naftos                     100%                         100%             full
                                                 prekybos namai


sia orlen latvija                                uab mezeikiu naftos                     100%                         100%             full
                                                 prekybos namai


uab emas                                         ab orlen lietuva                        100%                         100%             full


unipetrol group


paramo, a.s.                                     unipetrol, a.s.                         100%                         100%             full


mogul slovakia, s.r.o.                           unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                      -                         100%             full


paramo oil, s.r.o.                               paramo, a.s.                            100%                         100%             full


unipetrol austria hmbh                           unipetrol, a.s.                            -                         100%             full


unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                            unipetrol, a.s.                         100%                         100%             full


unipetrol slovensko, s.r.o.                      unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                   100%                         100%             full


unipetrol deutschland gmbh                       unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                   100%                         100%             full


unipetrol rpa hungary kft.                       unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                   100%                         100%             full


chemopetrol, a.s.                                unipetrol, a.s.                            -                         100%             full


spolana a.s.                                     unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                   100%                   -                      full


unipetrol doprava, s.r.o.                        unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                   100%                         100%             full


petrotrans, s.r.o.                               benzina, s.r.o.                         100%                         100%             full


unipetrol rafinérie, s.r.o.                      unipetrol, a.s.                            -                         100%             full


česká rafinérská, a.s.                           unipetrol, a.s.                         100%                         100%             full


butadien kralupy a.s.                            unipetrol, a.s.                         51%                           51%      share in assets and
                                                                                                                                     liabilities


anwil group


anwil s.a.                                       pkn orlen s.a.                          100%                         100%             full


spolana a.s.                                     anwil s.a.                                 -                         100%             full


przedsiebiorstwo produkcyjno-handlowo-           anwil s.a.                                 -                        99,99%            full
usługowe pro-lab sp. z o.o.


przedsiębiorstwo usług technicznych wircom sp.   pkn orlen s.a.                             -                        97,38%            full
z o.o.


basell orlen polyolefins group


basell orlen polyolefins sp. z o.o.              pkn orlen s.a.                          50%                           50%        equity method


basell orlen polyolefins sprzedaż sp. z o.o.     basell orlen polyolefins                100%                         100%        equity method
                                                 sp. z.o.o.


orlen południe group


orlen południe s.a.                              pkn orlen s.a.                          100%                         100%


ekonaft sp. z o.o.                               orlen południe s.a.                        -                         100%             full


energomedia sp. z o.o.                           orlen południe s.a.                     100%                         100%             full


euronaft trzebinia sp. z o.o.                    orlen południe s.a.                     100%                         100%             full


konsorcjum olejów przepracowanych -              orlen południe s.a.                     89%                           89%             full
organizacja odzysku s.a.


orlen oil group


orlen oil sp. z o.o.                             pkn orlen s.a.                          100%                         100%             full


orlen asfalt group


orlen asfalt sp. z o.o.                          pkn orlen s.a.                          100%                         100%             full


orlen asfalt ceska republika s.r.o.              orlen asfalt sp. z o.o.                 100%                         100%             full


inowrocławskie kopalnie soli "solino" s.a.       pkn orlen s.a.                          100%                         100%             full


kopalnia soli lubień sp. z o.o.                  pkn orlen s.a.                          100%                         100%             full


orlen paliwa sp. z o.o.                          pkn orlen s.a.                          100%                         100%             full




                                                                                                                       240

                                           name of entity                       parent company                          share in total voting rights                         consolidation method/ valuation method



                                                                                                           31/12/2016                                  31/12/2015


petrolot sp. z o.o.                                         pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen eko sp. z o.o.                                        pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


baltic power sp. z o.o.                                     pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen koltrans sp. z o.o.                                   pkn orlen s.a.                                                   99,85%                                 99,85%                    full


ship-service s.a.                                           pkn orlen s.a.                                                   60,86%                                 60,86%                    full


orlen transport s.a.                                        pkn orlen s.a.                                                         -                                 100%                     full


orlen wir sp. z o.o.                                        pkn orlen s.a.                                                         -                                76,59%                    full


retail segment


ab ventus-nafta                                             pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen deutschland gmbh                                      pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen budonaft sp .z o.o.                                   pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen centrum serwisowe sp. z o.o.                          pkn orlen s.a.                                                   99,33%                                 99,33%                    full


unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                                       unipetrol, a.s.                                                    100%                        -                                  full


benzina, s.r.o.                                             unipetrol, a.s.                                                        -                                 100%                     full


upstream segment


orlen upstream group


orlen upstream sp. z o.o.                                   pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen upstream international bv                             pkn orlen s.a.                                                         -                                 100%                     full


orlen upstream kanada ltd.                                  pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


1426628 alberta ltd.                                        orlen upstream kanada ltd.                                         100%                                  100%                     full


oneex operations partnership                                orlen upstream kanada ltd.                                         100%                                  100%                     full


kicking horse energy inc.                                   orlen upstream sp. z o.o.                                              -                                 100%                     full


kck operating company ltd.                                  orlen upstream sp. z o.o.                                              -                                 100%                     full


columbia natural resources canada ltd.                      orlen upstream sp. z o.o.                                              -                                 100%                     full


kicking horse internat. exploration ltd.                    orlen upstream sp. z o.o.                                              -                                 100%                     full


pieridae production gp ltd                                  orlen upstream kanada ltd.                                          50%                                   50%                equity method


671519 nb ltd                                               pieridae production gp ltd                                          50%                                   50%                equity method


kck atlantic holdings ltd.                                  kicking horse energy inc.                                          100%                                  100%                     full


pieridae production lp                                      kck atlantic holdings ltd.                                          80%                                   80%                equity method


fx energy, inc.                                             orlen upstream sp. z o.o.                                          100%                                  100%                     full


fx drilling company, inc.                                   fx energy, inc.                                                        -                                 100%                     full


fx producing company, inc.                                  fx energy, inc.                                                        -                                 100%                     full


frontier exploration, inc.                                  fx energy, inc.                                                    100%                                  100%                     full


fx energy netherlands partnership c.v.                      fx energy, inc.                                                    100%                                  100%                     full


fx energy netherlands b.v.                                  fx energy netherlands partnership c.v.                             100%                                  100%                     full


fx energy poland sp. z o.o.                                 fx energy netherlands partnership c.v.                             100%                                  100%                     full


corporate functions


ab orlen lietuva                                            pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


unipetrol group


unipetrol, a.s.                                             pkn orlen s.a.                                                   62,99%                                 62,99%                    full


unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                                       unipetrol, a.s.                                                    100%                                  100%                     full


unipetrol services, s.r.o.                                  unipetrol, a.s.                                                        -                                 100%                     full


unipetrol výzkumně vzdělávací centrum, a.s.                 unipetrol, a.s.                                                    100%                                  100%                     full


hc verva litvinov, a.s.                                     unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.                                            70,95%                                 70,95%                    full


orlen administracja sp. z o.o.                              pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen capital ab                                            pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen centrum usług korporacyjnych sp. z o.o.               pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen finance ab                                            pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


grupa orlen holding malta


orlen holding malta ltd.                                    pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen insurance ltd.                                        orlen holding malta ltd.                                           100%                                  100%                     full


orlen ochrona group


orlen ochrona sp. z o.o.                                    pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


uab apsauga                                                 orlen ochrona sp. z o.o.                                           100%                                  100%                     full


orlen serwis s.a.                                           pkn orlen s.a.                                                     100%                                  100%                     full


orlen projekt s.a.                                          pkn orlen s.a.                                                   99,77%                                 99,77%                    full


orlen laboratorium s.a.                                     pkn orlen s.a.                                                   99,38%                                 99,38%                    full


płocki park przemysłowo-technologiczny group


płocki park przemysłowo-technologiczny s.a. (pppt s.a.)     pkn orlen s.a.                                                      50%                                   50%                equity method


centrum edukacji sp. z o.o.                                 pppt s.a.                                                        69,43%                                 69,43%               equity method




                                                                                                     241

activity of core companies belonging to orlen group


                        name of entity                            headquarters             principal activity



 ab orlen lietuva (including its own capital group)            lithuania - juodeikiai   crude oil processing,
                                                                                        production of refining
                                                                                        products and wholesale


 unipetrol a.s. (including its own capital group)              czech republic -         crude oil processing as
                                                               prague                   well as manufacture and
                                                                                        distribution of refinery,
                                                                                        petrochemical and
                                                                                        chemical products


 anwil s.a.                                                    poland - włocławek       production of nitrogen
                                                                                        fertilizers, plastic and
                                                                                        chemicals


 orlen południe s.a.                                           poland - trzebinia       crude oil processing,
                                                                                        production and sale of
                                                                                        biofuels, oils


 orlen oil sp. z o.o.                                          poland - cracow          production, distribution
                                                                                        and sale of grease oils,
                                                                                        maintenance liquids


 orlen asfalt sp. z o.o.                                       poland - płock           manufacture and sale of
                                                                                        road bitumens and
                                                                                        specific bitumen
                                                                                        products


 orlen paliwa sp. z o.o.                                       poland - płock           liquid fuels trade


 inowrocławskie kopalnie soli "solino" s.a.                    poland - inowrocław      storage of crude oil, fuels
                                                                                        and gases, extraction
                                                                                        and supply of brine


 orlen upstream sp. z o.o. (including its own capital group)   poland - warsaw          exploration and
                                                                                        recognition of
                                                                                        hydrocarbon deposits,
                                                                                        extraction of crude oil
                                                                                        and natural gas



structured entities

orlen capital ab
the company’s business is raising funds through the issuance of bonds and other financial
instruments for institutional and private investors. orlen capital ab specializes in granting
borrowings or loans to group companies and conduct any other activities related to the financial


                                                      242

instruments.

on 30 june 2014 and on 7 june 2016 orlen capital ab issued eurobonds with 7-year redemption
of approximately of pln 5,530 million translated using exchange rate as at 31 december
2016 (representing eur 1,250 million).the funds obtained by orlen capital through the issue
were transferred to pkn orlen under the borrowing agreement. pkn orlen is the guarantor of
the both issued bonds by an irrevocable and unconditional guarantees issued to the bondholders
of pln 9,290 million translated using exchange rate as at 31 december 2016 (representing of
eur 2.1 billion). the guarantees were granted for the time of the eurobonds issues, until 30 june
2021 and 7 june 2023, respectively.

orlen finance ab
the company’s business is to conduct financial services within the orlen group, including
intercompany borrowings, as well as any other financial instruments, including mainly external
financing.
as at 31 december 2016 the group has issued the guarantee to orlen finance of pln
885 million.

orlen insurance ltd.
orlen insurance is an internal insurance company (i.e. captive), which main purpose is
insurance and reinsurance the group's business, matching insurance to the individual needs of its
property and the potential loss of margin.

9.2. subsidiaries
9.2.1. changes in shareholder structure of the group




                                               243

                                                                                                                                                           number of
                                                                                                                                                            aquired /
                                                                                                                                         transaction         (sold)
                                                         type of transaction / entities                                                     date             shares



sales of shares*


by pkn orlen:


in orlen transport s.a.                                                                                                                 29 february 2016    (25 530 000)


by fx energy inc:


w fx drilling company, inc                                                                                                              30 december 2016     (1 000 000)


w fx producing company, inc.                                                                                                            30 december 2016     (1 000 000)


increase in share capital and subscription of shares


by pkn orlen:


in orlen upstream sp. z o.o.                                                                                                            25 may 2016               3 478


transformation of entity


orlen laboratorium sp. z o.o. into orlen laboratorium s.a.                                                                              10 august 2016                  -


mergers and acquisitions within the group:


mergers and acquisitions within the group:


orlen upstream canada with kicking horse energy inc., kck operating company ltd., columbia natural resources canada, ltd. and kicking   1 january 2016                  -
horse international exploration ltd


unipetrol slovensko s.r.o. with mogul slovakia s.r.o.                                                                                   1 january 2016                  -


unipetrol rpa s.r.o. with benzina s.r.o.                                                                                                1 january 2016                  -


orlen serwis s.a. with orlen wir sp. z o.o. and wircom sp. z o.o                                                                        29 february 2016        240 344


unipetrol rpa, s.r.o. with unipetrol services, s.r.o, unipetrol rafinerie, s.r.o. and chemopetrol, a.s.                                 1 august 2016                   -


orlen upstream sp. z o.o. with orlen upstream international b.v.                                                                        24 october 2016                 -


unipetrol rpa s.r.o with česká rafinérská a.s                                                                                           1 january 2017                  -


acquisitions of shares


by pkn orlen:


in orlen serwis s.a.                                                                                                                    9 novemeber 2016         79 028


in orlen serwis s.a.                                                                                                                    30 december 2016          2 276


by unipetrol rpa:


in spolana a.s. from anwil s.a.                                                                                                         10 june 2016          7 482 788


deletion from trade registry


pro-lab sp. z o.o. in liquidation                                                                                                       18 april 2016           (18 282)


ekonaft sp. z o.o. in liquidation                                                                                                       17 may 2016                (100)


unipetrol austria hmbh in liquidation                                                                                                   9 september 2016             (1)




                                                                                                244

*
    impact of the transactions on the financial data of the group were presented in the note 7.1.4 in the line profit on sale of
subsidiaries in the amount pln 63 million.

changes in the group structure are an element of the strategy, assuming a focus on core
activities and allocating the resulting available capital for development of the group in the most
prospective areas.

9.3. investments in joint arrangements
                                                                           place of           principal         valuation
                                                                           business            activity          method



     joint ventures


     basell orlen polyolefins sp. z o.o. (bop)                            płock              production,        equity
                                                                                             distribution       method
                                                                                             and sales
                                                                                             of
                                                                                             poliolefins


     płocki park przemysłowo-technologiczny (pppt)                        płock              renting real       equity
                                                                                             estate             method


     pieridae production gp ltd (orlen upstream                           calgary            exploration        equity
     group)                                                                                  and                method
                                                                                             extraction
                                                                                             of minerals,
                                                                                             storage,
                                                                                             transport
                                                                                             and
                                                                                             logistics


     joint operations


     butadien kralupy a.s. (unipetrol group)                              kralupy            manufactur         share in
                                                                          nad                ing of             assets and
                                                                          vltavou            butadien           liabilities



additionally, orlen upstream has participated in the following joint operations:

          participation in a holding founded by orlen upstream, polskie górnictwo naftowe
          i gazownictwo (pgnig), lotos petrobaltic and university of science and technology
          (akademia górniczo-hutnicza), institue of oil and gas (instytut nafty i gazu), gdansk
          university of technology, warsaw university of technology (blue gas – polish shale gas


                                                               245

     program). the program aims to manufacture and commercialize the technology and gain
     knowledge for the extraction of shale gas in poland. the company participated in 6 projects
     carried out in 2013-2017. orlen upstream’s total contribution to the implementation of
     these projects amounts to pln 26 million. until the end of 2016, the company donated to
     the blue gas program a cash contribution of pln 8 million. in 2016, there were no costs
     incurred by orlen upstream within the holding.
     exploration – extraction projects carried out together with pgnig (the search areas
     „sieraków” – 49% share of orlen upstream, “bieszczady” – 49% share of orlen
     upstream, garwolin” - 51% share of orlen upstream and through subsidiary fx energy
     poland the search areas “płotki” – 49% share of fx energy poland and „warszawa
     południe” – 51% share of fx energy poland ). the agreements provide the conduct of joint
     operations and activities in the field of exploration, prospection and extraction of crude oil
     and natural gas. orlen upstream and fx energy poland has the right to proportionate
     share of the income and bears a proportionate share in the costs of joint operations.

investments accounted for under equity method


                                                              31/12/2016          31/12/2015



 joint ventures, incl.:                                                  756                 767


 basell orlen polyolefins sp. z o.o. (bop)                               677                 693


 pieridae production gp ltd (orlen upstream group)                        47                  45


 associates                                                                7                    7



                                                                         763                 774




                                               246

share in profit from investments accounted for under equity method


                                                               2016         2015



 joint ventures, incl.:                                               297          252


 basell orlen polyolefins sp. z o.o. (bop)                            298          252


 associates                                                             -           1



                                                                      297          253




                                             247

condensed financial information of bassel orlen polyolefines sp. z o.o.


                                                               31/12/2016         31/12/2015



non-current assets                                                         856            874


current assets                                                            1 152          1 376


cash                                                                       440            394


other current assets                                                       712            982


total assets                                                              2 008          2 250


total equity                                                              1 395          1 415


non-current liabilities                                                     50             36


current liabilities, incl:                                                 563            799


trade and other liabilities                                                548            783


total liabilities                                                          613            835


total equity and liabilities                                              2 008          2 250


net debt                                                                  (440)          (393)


net assets                                                                1 395          1 415


group’s share in joint ventures (50%)                                      698            708


consolidation adjustments                                                  (21)           (15)



joint ventures investments accounted for under equity method               677            693




                                                 248

                                                                                    2016             2015



sales revenues                                                                              3 218            3 895


cost of sales, incl.                                                                       (2 365)          (3 136)


depreciation and amortisation                                                                 (97)           (101)


gross profit on sales                                                                         853              759


distribution expenses                                                                         (90)           (112)


administrative expenses                                                                       (25)             (23)


other operating income and expenses, net                                                       (1)               1


profit from operations                                                                        737              625


net finance income and costs                                                                    7                4


profit before tax                                                                             744              629


tax expense                                                                                 (142)            (120)


net profit                                                                                    602              509


total net comprehensive income                                                                602              509


net cash provided by operating activities                                                     745              611


net cash (used) in investing activities                                                       (74)             (17)


net cash (used) in financing activities                                                     (625)            (433)


dividends received from joint ventures                                                        311              190


net profit                                                                                    602              509


group’s share in joint ventures (50%)                                                         301              255


consolidation adjustments                                                                      (3)              (3)



group’s share in result of joint ventures accounted for under equity method                   298              252




in 2016 and in 2015, there were no significant restrictions in associates and joint ventures
resulting from loans agreements, regulatory requirements and other contractual agreements that
would restrict access to assets and settlement of liabilities of the group.




                                                                              249

events after the end of reporting period
after the end of the reporting period, no events occurred other than disclosed in the foregoing
consolidated financial statements, which would require recognition or disclosure.




                                               250

statements of the management board and
approval of the financial statements
in respect of the reliability of preparation of consolidated financial statements
the management board of pkn orlen hereby declares that to the best of its knowledge the
foregoing consolidated financial statements and comparative data were prepared in compliance
with the accounting principles applicable to the orlen group in force and that they reflect true
and fair view on financial position and financial result of the orlen group.

in respect of the entity authorized to conduct audit of financial statements
the management board of pkn orlen declares that the entity authorized to conduct audit,
auditing the annual consolidated financial statements, was selected in compliance with the law
and that the entity and auditors conducting the audit met the conditions to issue an independent
opinion in compliance with relevant regulations and professional standards.


the foregoing consolidated financial statements were approved by the management board of the
parent company on 14 march 2017.




                                               251

orlen in figures
key financial data




                     252

key financial data [pln million]                                                                                                          2013*         2014         2015         2016



sales revenues                                                                                                                             113 597      106 832       88 336       79 553



operating profit/(loss) under lifo increased by depreciation and amortisation (ebitda lifo) before impairment allowances **, including:      3 086        5 213        8 738        9 412


downstream                                                                                                                                   2 407        4 210        7 776        8 107


retail                                                                                                                                       1 268        1 416        1 539        1 801


upstream                                                                                                                                       (32)            152          44           255



corporate functions1                                                                                                                         (557)        (565)        (621)        (751)



operating profit/(loss) under lifo increased by depreciation and amortisation (ebitda lifo), including:​                                     3 086        (147)        7 745        9 557


downstream                                                                                                                                   2 407        (852)        7 640        8 325


retail                                                                                                                                       1 268        1 440        1 539        1 794


upstream                                                                                                                                       (32)       (170)        (808)             182


                    1
corporate functions                                                                                                                          (557)        (565)        (626)        (744)



operating profit/(loss) under lifo increased by depreciation and amortisation (ebitda lifo), including:                                      3 086        (147)        7 745        9 557


pkn orlen s.a.                                                                                                                               2 074        2 920        4 376        4 846


unipetrol group                                                                                                                                255             478     1 653        1 952


orlen lietuva group                                                                                                                            (23)      (4 375)       1 074        1 083


other                                                                                                                                          780             830          642     1 676


operating profit/(loss) increased by depreciation and amortisation (ebitda)​                                                                 2 418       (2 720)       6 235        9 642


depreciation and amortisation, including:                                                                                                    2 111        1 991        1 895        2 110


downstream                                                                                                                                   1 633        1 408        1 269        1 317


retail                                                                                                                                         351             355          368          392


upstream                                                                                                                                           6           122          173          301



corporate functions1                                                                                                                           121             106          85           100



operating profit/(loss) under lifo (ebit lifo), including:                                                                                     975       (2 138)       5 850        7 447


downstream                                                                                                                                     774       (2 260)       6 371        7 008


retail                                                                                                                                         917        1 085        1 171        1 402


upstream                                                                                                                                       (38)       (292)        (981)        (119)



corporate functions1                                                                                                                         (678)        (671)        (711)        (844)



operating profit/(loss) (ebit)                                                                                                                 307       (4 711)       4 340        7 532


net profit/(loss)                                                                                                                                 90     (5 828)       3 233        5 740


net profit/(loss) attributable to equity owners of the parent                                                                                  176       (5 811)       2 837        5 261


total assets                                                                                                                                51 352       46 725       48 137       55 559


equity                                                                                                                                      27 551       20 386       24 244       29 285


net debt                                                                                                                                     4 668        6 720        6 810        3 363


net cash - operating activities                                                                                                              5 540        3 187        5 354        9 331


net cash - investing activities                                                                                                             (2 441)      (4 020)      (4 096)      (4 436)


investment expenditures (capex)                                                                                                              2 484        3 788        3 183        4 673



return on capital employed (roace) [%]2                                                                                                           0.7          1.7      15.2         19.1



return on capital employed under lifo (roace lifo) [%]3                                                                                           2.3          8.5      19.5         18.9


                           4
net financial leverage [%]                                                                                                                    16.9         33.0         28.1         11.5



net debt/profit from operations under lifo plus depreciation and amortisation for the last four quarters (ebitda lifo)6                       1.51         1.29         0.73         0.35



net debt/profit from operations plus depreciation and amortisation for the last four quarters (ebitda)7                                       1.93         2.55         0.88         0.35



net profit/(loss) attributable to equity owners of the parent per share (eps) [pln/share]                                                     0.41       (13.59)        6.63        12.30




                                                                                                                          253

      effect of inventory
      valuation under lifo
      [pln million]                               2013*                 2014               2015                 2016



      effect of inventory                              (668)              (2 573)             (1 510)                     85
      valuation under lifo on
      ebitda, including:


      pkn orlen s.a.                                   (595)              (2 272)             (1 507)                  165


      unipetrol group                                    (10)                (278)                (38)                (13)


      orlen lietuva group                                (44)                   10                 28                 (77)


      other                                              (19)                 (33)                   7                    10



*)
     restated data – change of consolidation method in accordance to ifrs 11 for basell orlen polyolefines sp. z o.o. and
płocki park przysłowo-technologiczny s.a. which are accounted for under the equity method instead of proportionate
consolidation method
**)
      impairment allowances of non-current assets included in:
- ii quarter of 2014 in the amount of pln (5.0) billion concerned mainly orlen lietuva of pln (4.2) billion, refinery part in
unipetrol group of pln (0.7) billion and in spolana from anwil group and rafineria jedlicze group in total of pln (0.1)
billion,
- iv quarter of 2014 of pln in the amount of pln (0.3) billion regarding orlen upstream group activities in canada
- ii quarter of 2015 in the amount of pln (0.4) billion mainly regarding assets of orlen upstream group
- iii quarter of 2015 in the amount of pln (0.1) billion mainly regarding petrochemical part in unipetrol group
- iv quarter of 2015 in the amount of pln (0.4) billion mainly regarding upstream assets of orlen upstream in canada
- iv quarter of 2016 in the amount of pln 0.2 billion concerned mainly refinery part in unipetrol group of pln 0.3 billion,
regarding orlen upstream group activities in poland and orlen oil group in total of pln (0.1) billion
1)
      includes corporate functions of the orlen group companies as well as companies not included in any of the above.
2)
     roace = profit from operations for the last four quarters after tax before impairment allowances of non-current assets /
average capital employed (equity + net debt) for the last four quarters
3)
     roace lifo = profit from operations for the last four quarters under lifo after tax before impairment allowances of
non-current assets /average capital employed (equity + net debt) for the last four quarters
4)
     net financial leverage = net debt / equity – calculated at the end of the period
5)
      covenants tested according to loan agreements excluding impairment of non-current assets
6)
     interest bearing debt net of cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period / ebitda lifo based on the lifo method
for the last four quarters



                                                                254

7)
     interest bearing debt net of cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period / ebitda for the last four quarters


economic value retained




                                                               255

                                   economic value retained            2015              2016



     a. direct economic value generated                                       89 110            81 598


     a1. revenue                                                              89 110            81 598


     net revenue from sale of products and services                           68 768            57 775


     net revenue from sale of merchandise and materials                       19 568            21 778


                     1)
     other income                                                                384             1 797



     finance income                                                              390               248


     b. economic value distributed                                           (85 843)          (77 212)


     b1. operating costs                                                     (81 074)          (71 505)


     operating expenses                                                      (80 811)          (71 163)



     other expenses1),2)                                                       (263)             (342)



     b2. employee wages and benefits                                          (2 110)           (2 206)


     b3. payments to providers of capital                                     (1 738)           (1 805)


     dividend paid                                                             (706)             (912)


     finance costs                                                            (1 032)            (893)


     b4. payments to government                                                (518)            (1 280)


     income tax                                                                (465)            (1 147)


     fines and compensation                                                      (53)            (133)


     b5. payments to local communities                                         (394)             (405)


     b6. community investments (donations)                                        (9)              (11)


     c. economic value retained                                                3 267             4 386




1)
      before net impairment losses on property, plant and equipment
2)
     excluding fines, compensation and donations


macroeconomic parameters




                                                             256

item                                          2013           2014           2015           2016



brent crude oil (usd/bbl)                             109             99             52             44


brent / ural differential (usd/bbl)                    1,0            1,7            1,8            2,5


wti crude oil (usd/bbl)                                99             94             49             44


canadian light sweet crude oil (usd/bbl)               91             86             45             40



henry hub gas (usd/1000m3)                            132            155             93             91



gas ngx ab-nit (2a) (usd/1000m3)                      107            135             71             60



model downstream margin (usd/bbl)1                   10,7           11,4           13,8           11,7


                                      2
model refining margin (usd/bbl)                        3,4            3,4            8,2            5,3


                                          3
model petrochemical margin (eur/t)                    730            781            968            960


                              4
model olefin margin (eur/t)                           471            486            460            347



quotation of margins (crack margins)



refining products (usd/t)5



gasoline                                              167            167            177            142


diesel oil                                            119            108            108             71


light heating oil                                      99             93             96             64


jet a-1 fuel                                          164            156            129             93


heavy heating oil                                    (234)          (225)          (142)          (125)


sn 150                                                131            161            177            139


                                  5
petrochemical products (eur/t)



polyethylene1                                         191            209            459            507


                1
polypropylene                                         298            328            496            529



ethylene                                              605            589            602            610


propylene                                             467            543            488            359


toluene                                               249            244            231            201


benzene                                               375            432            278            296


butadiene                                             480            373            295            350


paraxsylene                                           519            382            416            431




                                              257

1)
     model downstream margin (mdm) = revenues (90.7% products = 22.8% gasoline + 44.2% diesel oil + 15.3% hho +
1.0% sn 150 + 2.9% ethylene + 2.1% propylene + 1.2% benzene + 1.2% px) – expenses (100% input = 6.5% brent
crude oil + 91.1% ural crude oil + 2.4% natural gas)
2)
     model refining margin = revenues (products (93.5%) = 36% gasoline + 43% diesel oil + 14.5% hho) minus expenses
(100% input: brent crude oil and other raw materials valued at brent crude); product prices based on usd/bbl quotations
3)
     model petrochemical margin = revenues (98% products = 44% hdpe + 7% ldpe + 35% pp homo + 12% pp copo) –
products prices based on contract quotations minus expenses (100% input = 75% naphtha + 25% ls vgo) – products
prices based on spot quotations
4)
     model petrochemical margin of olefins = revenues (100% products = 50% ethylene + 30% propylene + 10% benzene +
10% toluene) – products prices based on contract quotations minus expenses (100% input = 75% naphtha + 25% ls
vgo); products prices based on quotations
starting from 2016 model petrochemical margin of olefins = revenues (100% products = 0.85*ethylene*54% +
0.92*propylene*28% + 0.84*glycols*9% + 0.81*butadiene*6% + 0.8*ethylene oxide*3%) minus expenses (100% input =
100% nafta); products prices based on quotations.
5)
     margins (crack) for refining and petrochemical products (excluding polymers) calculated as difference between
a quotation of given product and a quotation of brent dtd crude oil
6)
     margin (crack) for polymers calculated as difference between quotations of polymers and monomers


exchange rates
                                         average exchange rates1                      period end exchange rates1



     currency                  2013          2014      2015         2016       2013        2014        2015          2016


     usd/pln                      3,16         3,15       3,77        3,94       3,01         3,51        3,90         4,18


     eur/pln                      4,20         4,19       4,18        4,36       4,15         4,26        4,26         4,42


     czk/pln                      0,16         0,15       0,15        0,16       0,15         0,15        0,16         0,16


     cad/pln                      3,07         2,85       2,95        2,98       2,83         3,03        2,81         3,10



     cad/usd                      0,97         0,90       0,78        0,76       0,94         0,86        0,72         0,74



     usd/ltl                      2,60         2,60        bd          bd        2,51         2,84         bd           bd


     eur/ltl                      3,45         3,45        bd          bd        3,45         3,45         bd           bd



     usd/czk                      19,5         20,8       24,6        24,4       19,9         22,8        24,8         25,6



     eur/czk                      26,0         27,5       27,3        27,0       27,4         27,7        27,0         27,0




                                                              258

1)
     based on exchange rates published by nbp, czech republic national bank and bank of lithuania (for the years
2013-2014)



fuel consumption1
     countries, (‘000
     tonnes)                                    2013                  2014                 2015                  2016



     poland                                         14 659               14 641                15 522               17 214


     gasoline                                        3 633                 3 653                3 762                 3 996


     diesel oil                                     11 026               10 988                11 760               13 217


     lithuania                                       1 303                 1 466                1 493                 1 700


     gasoline                                           207                  205                   205                  219


     diesel oil                                      1 096                 1 261                1 287                 1 481


     czech republic                                  5 708                 5 936                6 115                 6 291


     gasoline                                        1 570                 1 577                1 576                 1 601


     diesel oil                                      4 138                 4 359                4 539                 4 690


     germany                                        53 302               54 115                55 050               56 764


     gasoline                                       18 452               18 527                18 228               18 217


     diesel oil                                     34 850               35 588                36 822               38 547



1)
     estimates prepared based on data of agencja rynku energii s.a., lithuanian statistical office, czech statistical office
and association of the german petroleum industry




                                                               259

ebitda lifo, ebit lifo, depreciation
ebitda lifo
                                     2014                          2015                  2016
                                    before                        before                before
                                  impairme                      impairme              impairme
                                      nt                            nt                    nt
                                  allowance                     allowance             allowance
                                        1                              1                    1
item, mln pln            2013         s              2015            s       2016         s



rafineria                  466        2 040           4 710         4 743     5 286       5 049


lifo effect (refining)    (688)      (2 417)         (1 513)       (1 513)      86           86


petrochemia               1 941       2 170           2 930        33 033     3 039       3 058


lifo effect                 20        (156)                 3           3       (1)         (1)
(petrochemical)



downstream                2 407       4 210           7 640         7 776     8 325       8 107



retail                    1 268       1 416           1 539         1 539     1 794       1 801


upstream                   (32)         152            -808            44      182          255


corporate functions       (557)       (565)            -626          -621     (744)       (751)



ebitda lifo               3 086       5 213           7 745           738     9 557       9 412




depreciation




                                               260

                                     2014                         2015                     2016
                                    before                        before                   before
                                 impairmen                     impairmen                impairmen
                                       t                            t                        t
                                 allowances                    allowances               allowances
item, mln pln         2013           1             2015            1           2016         1




rafineria               958               755           644             644      689             689


petrochemia             675               653           625             625      628             628



downstream             1 633             1 408         1 269           1 269    1 317           1 317



retail                  351               355           368             368      392             392


upstream                     6            122           173             173      301             301


corporate functions     121               106            85              85      100             100



depreciation           2 111             1 991         1 895           1 895    2 110           2 110




ebit lifo




                                                 261

                                           2014                           2015                  2016
                                          before                         before                before
                                        impairme                       impairme              impairme
                                            nt                             nt                    nt
     item, mln                          allowance                      allowance             allowance
     pln                  2013              s1              2015            s       2016          s1



     rafineria               (492)             1 285         4 066         4 099     4 597       4 360


     lifo effect             (688)           (2 417)        (1 513)       (1 513)      86           86
     (refining)


     petrochemi             1 266              1 517         2 305         2 408     2 411       2 430
     a


     lifo effect                20             (156)               3           3       (1)         (1)
     (petrochem
     ical)



     downstrea                774              2 802         6 371         6 507     7 008       6 790
     m



     retail                   917              1 061         1 171         1 171     1 402       1 409


     upstream                 (38)                30         (981)         (129)     (119)        (46)


     corporate               (678)             (671)         (711)         (706)     (844)       (851)
     functions



     ebit lifo                975              3 222         5 850         6 843     7 447       7 302



1)
     impairment allowances of assets according to ias 36​


segment downstream




                                                            262

                                                                     *
     item, mln pln                                            2013             2014            2015             2016



     segment revenues, including:                               92 986           85 941           69 611           60 094


     sales revenues from external customers                     77 047           70 549           56 987           49 202


     sales revenues from transactions with other                15 939           15 392           12 624           10 892
     segments


     segment expenses                                          (92 710)         (85 971)        (64 963)         (54 939)


     other operating income                                          188              468             276           1 964


     other operating expenses                                      (399)         (5 329)            (316)           (324)


     other operating income/expenses, net                          (211)         (4 861)             (40)           1 640


     share in profit from investments accounted for                      41            58             253              298
     under equity method



     operating profit/(loss) under lifo increased by               2 407          4 210            7 776            8 107
     depreciation and amortisation (ebitda lifo)
     before impairment allowances



     operating profit/(loss) under lifo increased by               2 407           (852)           7 640            8 325
     depreciation and amortisation (ebitda lifo)



     operating profit/(loss) increased by depreciation             1 739         (3 425)           6 130            8 410
     and amortisation (ebitda)



     profit/(loss) from operations under lifo before                 774          2 802            6 507            6 790
     impairment allowances



     profit/(loss) from operations under lifo                        774         (2 260)           6 371            7 008



     profit/(loss) from operations                                   106         (4 833)           4 861            7 093



     capex                                                         1 596          2 714            2 242            3 533


     sales (thousand tonnes)                                    28 376           27 706           30 380           30 708



*)
     restated data – change in consolidation method for basell orlen polyolefines sp. z o.o. and płocki park przemysłowo-



                                                             263

technologiczny s.a. in accordance with ifrs 11


     retail sector
                                                               *
     item, mln pln                                      2013               2014              2015              2016



     segment revenues, including:                          36 624             36 104            31 122            30 121


     sales revenues from external                          36 462             35 913            31 052            29 841
     customers


     sales revenues from transactions with                     162                191                70               280
     other segments


     segment expenses                                     (35 695)          (35 015)          (29 934)          (28 681)


     other operating income                                        90             182                50                87


     other operating expenses                                (102)             (186)               (67)             (125)


     other operating income/expenses, net                      (12)               (4)              (17)              (38)



     operating profit/(loss) increased by                    1 268             1 416             1 539             1 801
     depreciation and amortisation (ebitda)
     before impairment allowances



     operating profit/(loss) increased by                    1 268             1 440             1 539             1 794
     depreciation and amortisation (ebitda)



     profit/(loss) from operations before                      917             1 061             1 171             1 409
     impairment allowances



     profit/(loss) from operations                             917             1 085             1 171             1 402



     capex                                                     467                345               448               479


     sales (thousand tonnes)                                 7 516             7 776             7 986             8 187



*)
     restated data – change in consolidation method for basell orlen polyolefines sp. z o.o. and płocki park przemysłowo-
technologiczny s.a. in accordance with ifrs 11


                                                             264

upstream sector
     item, mln pln                                      2013*              2014              2015              2016



     segment revenues, including:                               17                298               215               442


     sales revenues from external customers                     17                298               215               442


     sales revenues from transactions with                         0                0                 0                 0
     other segments


     segment expenses                                          (48)             (271)             (347)             (537)


     other operating income                                     83                  4                 3                60


     other operating expenses                                  (90)             (323)             (852)              (83)


     other operating income/expenses, net                       (7)             (319)             (849)              (23)


     share in profit from investments                              0                0                 0                (1)
     accounted for under equity method



     operating profit/(loss) increased by                      (32)               152                44               255
     depreciation and amortisation (ebitda)
     before impairment allowances



     operating profit/(loss) increased by                      (32)             (170)             (808)               182
     depreciation and amortisation (ebitda)



     profit/(loss) from operations before                      (38)                30             (129)              (46)
     impairment allowances



     profit/(loss) from operations                             (38)             (292)             (981)             (119)



     capex                                                     304                499               288               525


     sales (thousand tonnes)                                    17                258               310               558



*)
     restated data – change in consolidation method for basell orlen polyolefines sp. z o.o. and płocki park przemysłowo-



                                                             265

technologiczny s.a. in accordance with ifrs 11


corporate functions
                                                                *
     item, mln pln                                       2013              2014              2015              2016



     segment revenues, including:                               314               311               288               351


     sales revenues from external customers                         71             72                82                68


     sales revenues from transactions with                      243               239               206               283
     other segments


     segment expenses                                      (1 078)           (1 007)              (971)           (1 072)


     other operating income                                     210               112                91                53


     other operating expenses                                (123)               (86)             (119)             (176)


     other operating income/expenses, net                           87             26              (28)             (123)


     share in profit from investments                               (1)           (1)                 0                 0
     accounted for under equity method



     operating profit/(loss) increased by                    (557)             (565)              (621)             (751)
     depreciation and amortisation (ebitda)
     before impairment allowances



     operating profit/(loss) increased by                    (557)             (565)              (626)             (744)
     depreciation and amortisation (ebitda)



     profit/(loss) from operations before                    (678)             (671)              (706)             (851)
     impairment allowances



     profit/(loss) from operations                           (678)             (671)              (711)             (844)



     capex                                                      117               230               205               136



*)
     restated data – change in consolidation method for basell orlen polyolefines sp. z o.o. and płocki park przemysłowo-
technologiczny s.a. in accordance with ifrs 11



                                                             266

our operations
research and development
pkn orlen, poland’s largest enterprise with a global
presence, has engaged in innovative projects and
analysed processes on the lookout for potential growth
opportunities. the development of an r&d portfolio and
various innovations are included in the new orlen
group strategy for 2017-2021 and they are one of the
key value creation elements of the people – innovations
strategy.



as part of the research projects implemented, pkn orlen performed work related to the
recovery of terephthalic acid from technological waste. additionally, an industrial evaluation was
performed aimed at assessing the impact of processing naphtha from the hydrocracking plant at
the reforming installation in order to improve the yield from the aromatics unit.

a research project was initiated entitled “methodology of forecasting and monitoring of the
quality of gasoline intended for long-term storage in salt caverns. technology of production of
base gasoline and of finished motor gasoline as an element of counteracting the disturbances in
the raw material and product economy”, co-financed by the european regional development
fund as part of the innochem program.

pkn orlen was the first polish company to launch, in 2015, a crowdsourcing project addressed
to ward the global community. in collaboration with ninesigma, the owner of the ninesights
platform, the company was looking for an idea to effectively utilise the low-temperature heat
produced during the first stage of crude oil processing which is irretrievably lost to the
atmosphere. in 2016, the contest ended, and the following teams were invited to proceed with
further collaboration: the polish company pwpo-t promont, as the leader of a polish-swedish
consortium specializing in chemical engineering, guha industries, an indian engineering design
company, as well as a german research centre ilk dresden.

the project in the area of advanced biofuels was continued, this project was related to the
development of alternative sources of obtaining next-generation biocomponents, implemented in
collaboration with the warmian-masurian university in olsztyn and with the university of
szczecin.

pkn orlen launched an online platform for collaboration and knowledge sharing with regard to
new technological solutions, called “innovations, startups”. this state-of-the-art communication
tool used by the most innovative companies is supposed to facilitate contacts with regard to
innovation as well as provide win-win solutions. the new site, available at


                                               267

www.innowacje.orlen.pl, is intended mainly for startups and innovators. the ‘innovations, start-
ups’ project involves different forms of cooperation with innovators. one of them is
innowacje@orlen, an application that can be used to register a proposed innovative solution for
any of the key areas of pkn orlen’s operations, including production, power generation, or
marketing and sales. the ‘accelerator’ and ‘crowdsourcing’ sections provide detailed information
on pkn orlen’s current programmes addressed to inventors, academics and businesses and
creating opportunities to present innovative solutions and cooperate closely with pkn orlen’s
top experts in their implementation.




other examples of pkn orlen’s initiatives are networking meetings, such as the one held during
the 590 congress in rzeszów in november 2016, and workshops administered by pkn orlen
experts for polish start-ups at ‘impact’16’ event in kraków.




the unipetrol group carried out research work focusing on processes related to the production of
motor fuels and to the in-depth processing of heavy fractions from crude oil throughput. the
search continued for the possibility of using renewable energy sources in the production of motor
fuels as well as work related to low-sulphur components of fuels and the production of road
bitumen with higher durability and abrasion. work has continued in relation to the potential
utilization of light hydrocarbons obtained in the pyrolysis process, as well as to improve the
quality of propylene used to produce polypropylene, optimize its production and introduce new
catalytic systems in compliance with reach.




the orlen lietuva group continued to implement projects related to the improvement of the
energy efficiency of production processes. a series of projects were also implemented related to


                                               268

environmental protection and comprising for instance, the reduction of dust levels from the fluid
catalytic crac (fcc) plant, sulphur compounds so2, nitrogen compounds nox from the company’s
chp plant as well as a system for monitoring emissions from the fcc sulphur recovery and
hydrogen production plants.




anwil signed agreements on collaboration with the institute of new chemical syntheses with
regard to research work concerning the use of gypsum from flue gas desulfurization for the
production of nitrate fertilizers, with the nicolaus copernicus university in toruń to develop
a technology for the treatment of sludge from salt brine purification in a chlorine production
plant, and with the institute of electrical engineering in warsaw with regard to the kinetic
activation of catalysts used in production processes. work also continues to implement
a technology for the production of nanocomposite modified pvc. external financing was obtained
under the innochem program for the project entitled “development of a technology for the
production of pvc-based ceramisable composites”.




orlen oil conducted research work related to the implementation of new products, qualitative
modifications of existing products, processes of obtaining new approvals, utilization of lubricating
oils and setting of new directions for the development of lubricant technologies in response to
customers’ expectations. in 2016, technologies were developed and implemented for 22 new
products in the area of oils for the automotive industry, 13 in the operating fluids group and
10 technologies in industrial oils, while modifications concerned 14 products in the industrial oils,
plastic lubricants and automotive segment.




in 2016, the orlen południe group continued to implement a development project “conversion
of glycerin into 1.2-propylene glycol”. an agreement was signed related to the purchase of the
basic design and of the license. work also continued related to second- and third-generation
biofuels. the nev fraction, constituting a raw material for the pkn orlen catalytic cracking
plant, was implemented into production. an anti-caking agent was developed for artificial
fertilizers thanks to co-financing obtained under the innochem sectorial program for the project
entitled “biodegradable anti-caking agents for the artificial fertilizer industry”.




                                                269

the orlen upstream group continued to be involved in other scientific and research projects
implemented under the “blue gas” program. this program is a part of a joint project by the
national centre for research and development and agencja rozwoju przemysłu s.a. (industry
development agency). it is focused on supporting integrated research and development projects
aimed at creating and commercializing production technologies. in 2016, research work was
carried out in the lubień kujawski license area to confirm the parameters and the suitability of
the salt deposit for natural gas storage.




                                              270

downstream
                                            orlen                 czech
                               units        group      poland    republic   lithuania



     maximum processing       million t         35.2      16.3        8.7        10.2
     capacity


     utilization of process      %               86         93         62         91
     ing capacity


     white products yield        %               78         80         79         73


     utilization of olefin       %               47         70         18           -
     installation capacity


     utilization of pta          %               87         87          -           -
     installation capacity




                                          271

                                      orlen                      czech
                         units        group        poland       republic   lithuania



total                  thousand t         30 708    15 173         6 421       9 114


refinery, including:   thousand t         26 440    12 070         5 256       9 114


fuels                  thousand t         18 225     6 808         4 451       6 966


heavy fractions        thousand t          4 334     1 961           453       1 920


other refinery         thousand t          3 881     3 301           352        228
products


petrochemicals,        thousand t          4 268     3 103         1 165           -
including:


olefins                thousand t           681        661            20           -


polyolefins            thousand t           245             -        245           -


benzene                thousand t           248        212            36           -


plastics               thousand t           351        284            67           -


fertilizers            thousand t          1 089       914           175           -


pta                    thousand t           605        605             -           -


other petrochemical    thousand t          1 049       427           622           -
products




                                    272

                                                                 czech
                                       orlen                    republi    lithuani
                          units        group          poland       c           a



total length of            km             3 753         1 888     1 774         91
used pipelines


length of used             km             1 695          930        674         91
raw materials
pipelines


length of used             km             2 058          958      1 100           -
product pipelines




                                  units    poland       czech republic    lithuania



  heating power installed         mwt      2 721.5              1399.1      1 040.4


  electric power installed        mwe        446.6               141.5        160.0


  boiler's efficiency              %           93.0               89.5         91.7


  boiler's availability            %           84.2               76.4         90.1




                                   273

downstream - production




in 2016, we maintained excellent production rates and we successfully dealt with
the consequences of unscheduled shut-downs in the czech republic, while
pursuing key growth projects. in order to strengthen pkn orlen’s position on the
petrochemical market, we commenced construction of a polyethylene unit in
litvínov, czech republic, and of a metathesis unit in płock, which will significantly
increase our output of propylene. the maintenance shutdowns and
reconstruction of the czech petrochemical assets did not affect production
continuity and we were able to fully meet the demand for our products in all
markets. we are particularly satisfied with the achievements of orlen lietuva,
which delivered excellent operating and financial performance.

                                                                      krystian pater
                                    member of the management board, production




                                                 274

main production assets of the orlen group
types of european refineries:




                                275

basic operational parameters
crude oil throughput and fuel yields:




      crude oil throughput in 2016 amounts to 30.1 million tonnes
      crude oil throughput down by (2.5)% (y/y), including:
           poland by (3.5)% (y/y) as a result of the more extensive scope of maintenance
           shutdowns of the fractional distillation units ii and vi, of the diesel oil
           hydrodesulphurisation unit, and of the hydrogen and olefin production plant. the
           polyethylene and polypropylene plants at basell orlen polyolefins and the polyvinyl
           chloride plant at anwil were shut down for period maintenance. fuel yield was at
           a comparable level (y/y).
           the czech republic by (16.5)% (y/y) as a result of an emergency shutdown from mid-
           may 2016 of the fluid catalytic crac plant at the kralupy refinery and the date of
           commissioning of the ethylene production plant in november 2016 following the
           breakdown of august 2015. fuel yield was at last year’s level.
           lithuania increase by 9.9% (y/y) as a result of the less extensive scope of the
           shutdown for maintenance and of the improved market situation contributing to
           higher product sales. lower fuel yield (y/y) mainly as a result of the change in the
           structure of processed crude oils (lower share of crude oils with lower sulphur
           content).




                                              276

downstream - sales




the polish fuel market saw a significant structural change in 2016. the fuel
package introduced by the polish government brought order to the fuel market
and restored equal opportunities for all participants. the grey market not only
affected budget revenue from taxes, but also significantly upset competition on
the polish fuel market. thanks to flexibility and quick response, pkn orlen
managed to effectively grasp the new market opportunity to achieve a strong
increase in wholesale and record-high volumes of fuels transported by the
logistics segment. a modern structure of the refining and petrochemical sales
team and the logistics team, coupled with continued improvement of fuel trading
capabilities, are critical to building value both for pkn orlen and the group’s key
trading partners.

                                                             zbigniew leszczyński
                                         member of the management board, sales




                                               277

wholesale of refinery products
in 2016, the orlen group conducted the wholesale of refinery products in poland, the czech
republic, germany, slovakia, hungary, austria, latvia, lithuania, estonia, finland and ukraine
and by sea to western europe transhipment terminals. the orlen group’s domestic markets
include: the polish, lithuanian and czech markets. the orlen group has an extensive portfolio of
refinery products, among others: gasoline, diesel oil, a-1 jet fuel, light and heavy heating oil,
bitumen, engine oils and a wide range of non-fuel products and semi-products.

market share in poland:




source: own preparation

       increase of orlen group’s market share in gasoline sales in poland by 1.4 percentage
       point (y/y), up to a level of 66.4%.
       decrease of the share in sales of diesel oil by (3.6) p.p. is of a statistical nature. as a result
       of the implementation of new legal regulations, the so-called shadow economy on the fuel
       market was reduced, and consequently the legal consumption presented by the energy
       market agency increased – in relation to the above, the market share figures in the years
       2015–2016 are non-comparable.
       the orlen group remains as a leader in fuel sales on the polish market. downstream -
       sales ensured reliability and top quality of customer service in the period following the
       enactment of the fuel package.
       a further strengthening of market position is expected thanks to implementation of
       strategic objectives for the years 2017-2021 including the expansion of our own logistics
       infrastructure.




                                                   278

market share in the czech republic




source: own preparation

       increase of market share due to growth in production capacities by 4.2 million tonnes per
       year to a level of 8.7 million tonnes per year after the acquisition of shares in ceska
       rafinerska from shell and eni in 2014 and 2015.
       impact of maintenance overhaul of the fluid catalytic crac installation from mid-may
       2016 in kralupy refinery on the level of fuel sales and market shares of the unipetrol
       group.

market share in the baltic states




source: own preparation

       fierce price competition from finnish, belarussian and russian suppliers.
       an extensive portfolio of trade partners from key market recipients to very small
       businesses, established position and good reputation enable us to keep the leading position
       in the market.

wholesale of petrochemical products

the orlen group is one of the largest petrochemical companies in central and eastern europe


                                               279

and the only producer of monomers and polymers on the polish market and of most
petrochemical products on the czech market.

polyethylene producers in europe




source: own preparation based on polyglobe

      the production capacity of high and low density polyethylene in europe are at a level of
      about 13 567 thousand tonnes/year.
      the largest producer of polyethylene is lyondell basell industries, which has a production
      capacity of about 2 195 thousand tonnes/year (including a 50% stake in basell orlen
      polyolefins sp. z o.o. (bop). the company has assets located in germany, france and
      poland.
      ineos olefins & polymers europa with a production capacity of around 1 745 thousand
      tonnes/year and assets located in belgium, france, germany, italy and norway and sabic
      with a production capacity of about 1 590 thousand tonnes/year and assets located in
      germany, the netherlands and the uk.
      aggregate production capacities of orlen group with plants in poland and the czech
      republic (including a 50% stake in bop) amount to around 555 thousand tonnes/year.
      orlen group on the czech market is constructing a new installation of polyethylene
      3 capable of production capacity of about 270 thousand tonnes/year.




                                               280

polypropylene producers in europe




source: own preparation based on polyglobe.

      polypropylene production capacity in europe is at the level of about 11 559 thousand
      tonnes/year.
      lyondell basell industries has a production capacity of about 2 365 thousand tonnes/year
      (including a 50% stake in bop). the company has assets located in germany, france, italy,
      spain, the uk and poland.
      borealis with a production capacity of around 1 920 thousand tonnes/year and assets
      located in belgium, germany, austria and finland and total petrochemicals with
      a production capacity of about 1 280 thousand tonnes/year and assets located in belgium
      and france.
      aggregate production capacities of the orlen group with plants in poland and the czech
      republic (including a 50% stake in bop) amounts to about 480 thousand tonnes/year.




                                              281

pta producers in europe




source: own preparation based on pci

       pta production in the european market in 2016 amounted to about 2 532 thousand
       tonnes/year.
       bp chembel nv – largest producer of pta, located in belgium with nominal capacity of
       1 400 thousand tonnes/year.
       artlant in portugal with nominal production capacity of 750 thousand tonnes/year – due to
       prolonged construction of production installations since third quarter of 2014 the actual
       volume of production is limited.
       pkn orlen is the only company in europe which has pta manufacturing systems fully
       integrated with the production of paraxylene and has a production capacity at a level of
       630 thousand tonnes/year at its disposal
       planned investments in pta in europe are concentrated in russia: etana (750 thousand
       tonnes/year – 2020), mogilev (600 thousand tonnes/year – 2020) and ojsc taneco
       (210 thousand tonnes/year – 2021), but due to a long time horizon and unstable political
       circumstances the investments are uncertain.




                                               282

pvc producers in europe




source: own preparation based on ihs markit

       pvc nominal production capacity in europe is 7 561 thousand tonnes/year.
       oltchim and karpatneftekhim, with nominal production capacities of approx. 300 thousand
       tonnes each, have been permanently shut down.
       the leading manufacturer of pvc in europe is inovyn (a company established through the
       merger of ineos chlor and solvay) and has production capacity of 2 195 thousand
       tonnes/year.
       the next largest producers are kem one, vynova and vinnolit which have production
       capacities estimated respectively at 881 thousand tonnes/year, 820 thousand tonnes/year
       and 809 thousand tonnes/year.
       anwil s.a. with a production capacity of 340 thousand tonnes/year is ranked eighth in the
       european market of pvc producers.
       anwil’s main competitors in the pvc domestic and european market are borsodchem,
       inovyn and vynova.

logistics assets of the orlen group
efficient logistics infrastructure is the key element of the competitive advantage of the orlen
group in the marketplace.

the orlen group uses a network of mutually complementary infrastructure elements: fuel
terminals, onshore and offshore handling facilities, networks of raw material pipelines. in 2016,
product logistics in the orlen group was based on pipeline use, on railway transport, as well as
on tank truck carriage.




                                               283

in 2016 pipeline transport was the primary form of transport of raw materials and products. the
total length of used product and raw material pipeline networks, belonging to external entities
and own facilities in poland, the czech republic and in lithuania was nearly 3.8 thousand km (2.1
thousand km are product pipelines, and 1.7 thousand km are raw material pipelines).

on the polish market pkn orlen uses 620 kilometers of pipelines owned by przedsiębiorstwo
eksploatacji rurociągów naftowych "przyjaźń" and its own transportation infrastructure with
a length of 338 km consisting of two sections: płock - ostrów wielkopolski - wrocław with a length
of 319 km and wielowieś – góra (iks solino) with a length of 19 km. crude oil transport is
performed primarily with the use of a network of pipelines belonging to pern “przyjaźń”, of
a total length of 887 km, as well as using own pipeline of 43 km, linking góra (iks solino) to
żółwiniec (connection to the pern “przyjaźń” pipeline).

for operational purposes of receipt, dispatch and loading of fuel in 2016, the orlen group used
in aggregate 24 facilities (own fuel terminals, terminals owned by entities from the orlen group
and third parties’ centres). the total storage capacity within own infrastructure and based on
agreements concluded at the end of 2016 amounted to 7 million m3.

in 2016 on the czech market, the orlen group used 1 774 km of pipelines (1 110 km of product
pipelines owned by cepro and 674 km of raw material pipelines owned by mero) and 12 storage
and distribution stations belonging to the state-owned operator cepro and 2 storage facilities
leased from third parties.

the main component of the logistics infrastructure, currently used on the lithuanian market, is
the raw material pipeline with a length of 91 km, linking the butinge terminal with the mazeikiai
refinery. both the terminal and the pipeline are owned by orlen lietuva.

on the german market, orlen deutschland has taken advantage of the warehouse-distribution
capacities in five facilities located in the northern part of germany, belonging to external entities.
fuel transport in this market is performed entirely with the use of road transport.




                                                 284

logistics infrastructure used by the orlen group in europe:




power industry
the orlen group is a significant producer of electricity and heat energy, which is used in large
part for their own production needs. it is also one of the largest consumers of gas in poland and
an active participant in the process of the liberalisation of the gas market.

according to the assumptions of the orlen group strategy, current production sources are
undergoing upgrading projects and new investments in the form of gas-steam blocks are being
implemented.
the orlen group currently owns energy blocks in three countries. in poland, they are located in
płock, włocławek, jedlicze and trzebinia. in the czech republic in litvinov, spolana, kolin
and pardubice and in lithuania in mazeikiai.



                                               285

energy assets and their technical parameters in the orlen group:




     pkn orlen power plant in płock ("pp") is the largest in terms of installed capacity industrial
     power plant in poland and one of the largest in europe, producing heat and electricity in
     the high-efficiency cogeneration. the pp provides, as the basic supplier, heat in steam and
     heating water and electricity - the media used for the production installations and for
     external customers. in 2016 the investment projects related to adjustment to the new
     environmental requirements were formally completed. implementation of the program of
     efficiency improvement in production of heat and power was successfully realised.
     heat and power plant orlen południe group located in trzebinia ensures full heating
     needs in steam and water, and partly the need of electricity. the basic fuel is coal dust.
     heat and power plant in jedlicze is the primary source of heat production in technological
     steam. the basic fuel is fine coal dust.
     heat and power plant anwil is an industrial power plant generating technological heat and
     electricity in a cogeneration process and it is powered by natural gas and heating oil.
     heat and power plant in litvinov in the unipetrol group is based on brown coal and its
     energy assets are currently under modernization.
     heat and power plant in spolana is mainly based on brown coal.
     the paramo heat and power plant includes two production plants: kolin and pardubice, in
     which the source of producing steam is based on the combustion of natural gas.
     the orlen lietuva heat and power plant is a source of technological steam for production
     processes and operates on a mix of heavy heating oil and refining gases.

in 2016 the orlen group led a construction of industrial heat and power plants in włocławek and
płock.



                                               286

the gas-steam power plant constructed in włocławek of 463 mwe in total power will be strictly
technologically linked to the anwil group production plant. the launch of power plants is
scheduled for the second quarter of 2017 after the contractor completes diagnosed repairs,
guarantee measurements and a test run. after commissioning, the newly built power plant will
serve as the main source of technological heat and electricity for the anwil group, and the
surplus of electricity manufactured will be allocated by pse (polskie sieci elektroenergetyczne
s.a) on the domestic market.

in 2015, implementation of an investment started consisting in the erection of a gtcc unit in
płock with a capacity of 596 mwe. in april 2015, the construction site was handed over to the
general contractor, a consortium of siemens ag and siemens polska sp. z o.o. by the end of
2015, all the earthworks related to the technological structures as well as to the auxiliary
structures had been carried out. in 2016, key elements of the ccgt unit arrived at the
construction site, including the gas turbine, the steam turbine and the generator, and intense
mechanical installation of the unit started. in 2016, all the administrative, planning and
easement-related aspects had also been handled concerning the 400 kv line for the unit. the
investment is planned to be completed by the end of 2017.

the activity on wholesale electrical energy market has been expanded from the polish market to
the lithuanian and the czech markets. additionally in pkn orlen, the sale of the electrical
energy to final users has started.

volume sales of downstream sector
in 2016 orlen group achieved a record sales volume in the downstream sector. total sales
volume amounted to 30 708 thousand tonnes and was higher by 1.1% (y/y) mainly as a result of
higher refinery volumes by 4.9% (y/y) and lower by (17.5)% (y/y) petrochemical volumes on the
czech and polish markets.

light and medium distillates had the biggest impact on the level of sales.

a reduction in sales in the petrochemical industry in the field of monomers, polymers and pvc
was the result of supply constraints related to the unavailability (until november 2016) of
installations for production of ethylene in the unipetrol group after a breakdown of august
2015 and a periodic maintenance overhaul of the olefin installation in pkn orlen.

higher pta sales was a result of the intensification of production in the first half of 2016 and
consistent sales policy on european markets, namely polish and german.

the decrease in fertiliser sales was due to maintenance overhauls of production installations in
june and july of 2016 in anwil.




                                                 287

the orlen group sales in the downstream sector (pln million/thousand tonnes):


             sales                2016                           2015



                          value      volume           value          volume             change %


                 1         2              3                4             5         6=(2-4)/   7=(3-5)/
                                                                                      4          5



     light distillates1   10 513          5 766           11 528         5 437       (8.8%)        6.1%



     medium               22 714         12 459           25 062        11 995       (9.4%)        3.9%
     distillates2



     heavy fractions3      3 786          4 334            4 610         4 544     (17.9%)      (4.6%)



     monomers4             2 025              681          2 978             878   (32.0%)    (22.4%)



     polymers5             1 135              245          2 341             482   (51.5%)    (49.2%)



     aromas6                   625            248              930           358   (32.8%)    (30.7%)



     fertilizers7              821        1 089            1 057         1 146     (22.3%)      (5.0%)



     plastics8             1 218              351          1 492             445   (18.4%)    (21.1%)



     pta                   1 571              605          1 532             587      2.5%         3.1%



     others9               4 794          4 930            5 457         4 508     (12.1%)         9.4%



     total                49 202         30 708           56 987        30 380     (13.7%)         1.1%



1)
     gasoline, lpg


                                                    288

2)
     diesel oil, light heating oil, jet fuel
3)
     heavy heating oil, bitumen, oils
4)
     ethylene, propylene
5)
     polyethylene, polypropylene
6)
     benzene, toluene, paraxylene, ortoxylene
7)
     canwil, ammonium sulphate, ammonium nitrate, other fertilizers
8)
     pvc, pvc granulate
9)
     other:
- in volume terms consists mainly of brine, salt base, vacuum distillates, acetone, ammonia, butadiene, phenol, technical
gases, glycols, caprolactam, caustic soda and sulphur
- in value, the item includes sales of other products, goods and materials of the segment, and segment sales

sales revenue structure of the orlen group downstream sector:




in 2016, 2015 and 2014, the orlen group did not have any customers whose share in total sales
would individually exceed 10%.

markets
basic domestic markets of the orlen group companies in the downstream sector:

           polish market - pkn orlen, orlen paliwa sp. z o.o., orlen południe s.a., orlen asfalt sp.
           z o.o., orlen oil sp. z o.o., iks solino s.a., petrolot sp. z o.o., ship-service s.a., anwil s.a.
           baltic states market - ab orlen lietuva, orlen latvija sia (latvia), orlen eesti ou
           (estonia).
           the czech republic market - unipetrol rpa s.r.o., paramo a.s., unipetrol slovensko s.r.o.,
           unipetrol deutschland gmbh, butadien kralupy a.s., unipetrol rpa hungary kft., orlen
           asfalt ceska republika s.r.o., spolana a.s.



                                                           289

sales volume of the orlen group in the downstream sector on domestic markets (in thousands
of tonnes)1


                  sales                       2016                 2015       change      change %



     1                                                  2                 3     4=(2-3)    5=(2-3)/3


     poland                                      15 173             15 192         (19)       (0.1%)


     lithuania                                     9 114             8 462         652         7.7%


     chech republic                                6 421             6 726        (305)       (4.5%)



     total                                       30 708             30 380         328         1.1%



1)
     by country of headquarter of company carrying out the sales




                                                            290

structure of sales volume of the orlen group in the downstream sector on domestic markets:




            a) polish market

high growth of the polish economy in comparison to other european economies and a good
situation on the labour market had
a significant impact on fuel consumption in the polish market.

low fuel prices and the introduction of the so-called fuel package i.e. solutions which significantly
reduce the impact of the shadow economy, had an additional effect on domestic demand,
particularly noticeable in the fourth quarter of 2016.

according to the energy market agency, domestic consumption of gasoline and diesel oil in
2016 increased respectively by 6.1% and 12.5% (y/y).

sales volume of the orlen group in the downstream sector of the polish market (in thousands of
tonnes):




                                                291

              sales   2016               2015         change        change %



1                             2                   3     4=(2-3)      5=(2-3)/3


light distillates       1 704              1 634               70        4.3%


medium distillates      5 104              4 980           124           2.5%


heavy fractions         1 961              2 309          (348)        (15.1%)


monomers                     661                784       (123)        (15.7%)


aromas                       212                213         (1)         (0.5%)


fertilizers                  914                951        (37)         (3.9%)


plastics                     284                339        (55)        (16.2%)


pta                          605                587            18        3.1%


others                  3 728              3 395           333           9.8%



total                  15 173             15 192           (19)         (0.1%)




                                   292

structure of sales volumes of the orlen group in the downstream sector of the polish market:




sales of the orlen group in the entire downstream sector
of the polish market in 2016 reached a level similar to last year’s and amounted to 15 173
thousand tonnes. realised refining volumes were higher by 2.2% (y/y) and petrochemical
volumes dropped by (8.1)% (y/y) due to maintenance overhauls
of the olefin installation in pkn orlen.

in the area of refinery products, the sales of light and middle distillates increased. the
intensification of activities related to services provided to the final users brought positive results
in sales both to international groups and to the sme sector.

in 2016, an increase in the sale of jet fuel was observed, making it possible to consolidate
a leading position among its suppliers. the jet fuel market continues to be a significant
component of the group’s selling strategy in relation to the dynamic increase in air transport in
poland.

            b) operating markets of orlen lietuva

according to imf estimates, the gdp growth rate of lithuania amounted to 2.6% (y/y), in estonia
1.5% (y/y), and in latvia 2.5% (y/y). positive macroeconomic indicators had a positive impact on
the increased demand for fuels, which in total for the three baltic markets increased in the
gasoline sector by 3.2% (y/y) and diesel fuel by 4.9% (y/y). the largest increases in consumption
took place in lithuania, where the demand for gasoline increased by 9.0% (y/y) and for diesel by
12.8% (y/y).

a negative factor influencing consumption in the estonian market was the increase in excise
duty, which is to be continued in subsequent years. low entry barriers for baltic markets meant
that orlen lietuva operated in an environment of growing competition, mainly from importers
from finland and belarus.

despite the market pressure, the total volume of sales increased in 2016 by 7.7% (y/y).




                                                  293

orlen group volume sales in the downstream sector markets serviced by the orlen lietuva
group (thousand tonnes):


            sales                  2016               2015          change         change %



 1                                          2                  3       4=(2-3)        5=(2-3)/3


 light distillates                     2 753            2 480              273           11.0%


 medium distillates                    4 213            4 179                34            0.8%


 heavy fractions                       1 920            1 635              285           17.4%


 others                                   228                168             60          35.7%



 total                                 9 114            8 462              652             7.7%



structure of sales volume of the orlen group in the downstream sector of the markets serviced
by the orlen lietuva group:




the economic situation in ukraine, which has been very tough in the last several years, has now
improved. in 2016 estimates point to an increase in gdp by around 1.5% (y/y) in comparison to
a fall by 9.9% the year before. despite the improved economic ratios, the situation of households
remains difficult, and the lack of stability in the financial market and the high inflation rate


                                                294

translate into a state of uncertainty and high market risk. an aggressive pricing policy was also
seen to be pursued in the ukrainian market by belarusian refineries, as well as an intensified
supply of fuels from russia. in spite of the above restrictions, the orlen lietuva group increased
sales in the ukrainian market by 1.1% (y/y).

            c) the czech republic market

in 2016, the czech economy grew at a rate of 2.5% (y/y). favourable market conditions led to an
increase in the consumption of gasolines by 1.7% (y/y) and diesel oil by 4.0% (y/y).

in april 2015, unipetrol acquired the remaining shares in ceska rafinerska a.s. from eni. the
unipetrol group became the sole owner of the litvinov and kralupy refineries and has become
the sole producer of fuels in the czech republic.

total sales of light and middle distillates increased by 7.0% (y/y), despite the production
restrictions caused by the emergency shutdown, starting in mid-may 2016, of the fluid catalytic
crac installation at the refinery in kralupy.

lower petrochemical volumes by (4.5)% (y/y), were mainly caused by the failure of the ethylene
production plant in august 2015, which was relaunched in november 2016. the restricted selling
possibilities were balanced by the coordination of product flows within the orlen group, and also
thanks to the purchases of semi-finished and finished products from third parties.




                                               295

sales volume of the orlen group in the downstream sector of the czech market (in thousands of
tonnes):


               sales             2016               2015         change        change %



 1                                        2                  3     4=(2-3)        5=(2-3)/3


 light distillates                   1 309            1 323            (14)          (1.1%)


 medium distillates                  3 142            2 836            306           10.8%


 heavy fractions                        453                600        (147)         (24.5%)


 monomers                                20                 94         (74)         (78.7%)


 polymers                               245                482        (237)         (49.2%)


 aromas                                  36                145        (109)         (75.2%)


 fertilizers                            175                195         (20)         (10.3%)


 plastics                                67                106         (39)         (36.8%)


 others                                 974                945            29          3.1%



 total                               6 421            6 726           (305)          (4.5%)




                                              296

structure of sales volume of the orlen group in the downstream sector of the czech market:




in 2016, unipetrol group continued to sell to a wide portfolio of clients, including large fuel
companies and supermarket chains.

the unipetrol group has been selling its products on the slovakian, hungarian, german and
austrian markets through unipetrol slovakia and unipetrol deutschland.

sources of supply

            a) crude oil

crude oil deliveries to pkn orlen are realised through the “przyjaźń" pipeline and by sea using
the gdańsk-płock pipeline.

orlen lietuva group is supplied with raw material by the terminal in butinge.

the supply of raw material for the production
of the unipetrol group takes place through the southern section of the pipeline "przyjaźń" for the
refinery in litvinov and the tal and ikl pipelines to the refinery in kralupy. the litvinov refinery
can also be supplied using the tal and ikl pipeline.

in 2016 two long-term contracts for the supply of crude oil by pipeline to a refinery in płock was
signed with the rosneft oil company and tatneft europe ag and a long-term agreement on the
supply of oil by sea with the saudi arabian oil company came into effect. the contracts provided
pkn orlen with more than 70% of its crude oil supplies.

in addition, pursuant to separate agreements, pkn orlen provides crude oil to the 3 orlen
group refineries located respectively in litvinov and kralupy in the czech republic and in
mazeikiai in lithuania.

in 2016 the crude oil supplies in all directions proceeded according to plan.

the raw material suppliers to all of the refineries of the orlen group were both manufacturers
and companies operating in the international crude oil market. raw material delivered to płock


                                                 297

came primarily from russia and saudi arabia, but deliveries from kazakhstan, iran and azerbaijan
were also realised. crude oil for refineries in the czech republic was supplied from russia,
algeria, azerbaijan, saudi arabia, and kazakhstan. the supply of raw material to the mazeikiai
refinery came primarily from russia, but also from saudi arabia and kazakhstan.

in 2016, the share of the rosneft oil company in crude oil supplies exceeded 10% of the overall
revenues of the orlen group.

            b) natural gas

natural gas purchases in 2016 were based on a long-term contract between pkn orlen and
pgnig dating from 1997 and on agreements with alternative suppliers.

on 29 september 2016, pkn orlen and pgnig s.a. signed a new five-year contract which will
remain in force until 30 september 2021, its value may exceed pln 7 billion.

under the agreement concluded, pgnig became a strategic supplier of natural gas to the orlen
group companies in poland.

the orlen group carries out activities aimed at securing stable supplies and at reducing the
overall cost of natural gas purchases, for instance by diversifying supply sources, centralizing
natural gas trading, and building trader expertise. the new gas contract portfolio established in
2016 provides for a series of optimization measures, both at the level of individual suppliers and
of the various gas indices and also in several delivery points.

the orlen group has also implements a number of exploration
and extraction projects in order to obtain their own sources of gas and crude oil.

in 2016 the orlen group did not have any suppliers whose share in the total natural gas supply
would exceed 10% of orlen group’s revenues.




                                                298

retail




the retail segment plays a fundamental role in creating the orlen brand image,
and consistent development of this segment across many dimensions increases
its contribution to building the value of the entire group. in 2016, the segment
posted record sales thanks to better alignment of its offer with customers’
expectations, further unification of standards across the retail chain, and
continued process optimisation. we are implementing ambitious growth projects,
such as the stop.cafe food service format and the o!shop store format. we also
plan to add new services to our portfolio, in response to fast-changing global
consumer trends.

                                                              zbigniew leszczyński
                                         member of the management board, sales




                                                299

                                   orlen                                    czech        lithuani
                   units           group      poland         germany       republic          a



 total          thousand           8 186.6    5 052.4          2 453.6           617.4          63.2
sales               t


market               %               17.7         34.8                6           17.8           3.5
share


number of          number           2 726       1 766                572          363            25
retail
stations


including:


premium            number           1 758       1 616                  -          117            25


economica          number             898            108             555          235              -
l


others             number              70            42              17            11              -


codo/coc           number           2 173       1 317                475          356            25
o


dofo/dod           number             553            449             97             7              -
o




                                          orlen                        czech
                           units          group            poland     republic     lithuania



number of outlets        number              1 691           1 500         168            23


stop cafe                number              1 114            959          132            23


stop cafe bistro         number               536             500           36              -


stop cafe 2.0            number                41              41            -              -




                                    300

market position and environments

the orlen group is an unquestionable leader in central europe, with a network of 2 726 fuel
stations operating in the premium and economy segments.

the number of the orlen group stations for the key markets at the end of 2016:




in poland, fuel stations operate under the orlen brand in the premium segment and under the
bliska brand in the economy segment, whereas in the czech republic – they operate under the
benzina plus and benzina brands respectively, whereas in lithuania – under the orlen brand
(premium segment). on the german market, fuel stations have been operating primarily in the
economy segment – under the star brand and the network is complemented by a dozen familia
market stations

            a) polish market

at the end of 2016 the orlen group operated a network of 1 766 fuel stations in the polish
market. the implemented investment program implemented focused on the establishment of
new fuel stations
and highway facilities, with the upgrading of existing facilities and the rebranding of the bliska
stations to orlen.

halfway through 2016 the orlen group began to implement the new shopping and gastronomic
format named stop cafe 2.0. the provision of new functionalities dedicated to fleet customers
and the marketing campaigns run by the firm let the orlen group
strengthen its position on the polish market and increase the total volume of fuel sold by 5.6%
(y/y). the company's premium customer service quality and operational excellence were once


                                                301

again awarded with the customer service quality star. pkn orlen was also named the winner in
the four main categories of the best service station of 2016 cometition. futhermore, pkn orlen
is poland's first company to have received a certificate given to serice stations which fully cater
for the needs of persons with disabilities.

share of the orlen group in the retail fuel market in poland:




the market share decrease has a static nature. as a result of the introduction in 2016 of
regulations, the so-called “grey zone” in the fuel market has been limited and, thus, the
registered consumption as well as the one presented by the energy market agency (are)
increased. in relation to the above, the values of market shares in the years 2015-2016 are
incomparable.

according to data published by popihn (polish organisation of oil industry and trade) in 2016,
more than 6.8 thousand fuel stations operated in the polish market.

the main competitors of pkn orlen on the polish market included such foreign concerns as:
shell, bp, statoil, lukoil, total and two self-service station networks as 24 and ids, which owned
21.6% of the stations. at the end of 2016 the lotos group retained a 7.2% share in the total
number of fuel stations in poland. especially noteworthy is the growing market share of
independent stations.




                                                302

fuel station network in poland as at 31.12.2016:




source: own preparation based on popihn data

the continued expansion of the road system in poland creates the possibility for a development
that includes so-called passenger service centers (mop) located next to highways and
expressways.

as of the end of 2016, there were 72 mops in the polish market, out of which 28 (39%) belong to
the orlen group. additionally, the orlen group owns four facilities of this type, which are
currently under construction.

             b) german market

the orlen group has been present in the largest retail market in europe – in germany – since
2003. as of the end of 2016, the network owned by orlen deutschland gmbh included 572 fuel
stations (4% of all fuel stations in germany) and maintained a 6.0% share in the german retail
market in 2016.




                                               303

share in the retail fuel market in germany:




the major competitors of orlen deutschland gmbh are international fuel station networks such
as: aral, shell, esso, total (45% of all stations) and the economy segment networks of jet and
hem (8% of all stations).

            c) czech market

the orlen group has retained its leading position in terms of the number of fuel stations in the
czech republic – as of the end of 2016, benzina increased the number of locations by
24 and managed 363 stations. concluded investment projects i.e. the incorporation of 20 fuel
stations acquired from omv and the persistent policy of retail price management contributed to
a significant increase of the share of the czech retail market to a level of 17.8%.

the share of the retail fuel market in the czech republic




the second place in the czech market in terms of the number of fuel stations belongs to


                                               304

hungarian concern mol (with 308 stations). in 2016 the mol concern decided to implement the
new gastronomy format named fresh in 46 of their fuel stations in europe. within the next
5 years this new format is to be implemented in a further 750 fuel stations managed by the
hungarian concern. key members of the fuel market are also shell, euro oil and omv.

            d) lithuanian market

as of the end of 2016, the orlen group in lithuania owned 25 fuel stations (managed by the
subsidiary ab ventus-nafta) and its market share accounted for 3.5% of the total.

the share of the retail fuel market of lithuania:




concern neste remains one of the main competitors of the orlen group in the lithuanian
market, with 63 self-service stations. the remaining stations are owned by networks operating
under the lukoil brand, which possess 82 stations (network taken over by an austrian company
amic energy management) and statoil with 79 stations owned by the canadian company
alimentation couche-tard.

sales volume of retail segment

the sales volume of the retail sector of the orlen group increased by 2.5% (y/y) in 2016 and
amounted to 8 187 thousand tonnes as a result of higher fuel sales in the polish, czech and
lithuanian markets with a slightly lower volume in the german market.




                                                305

the orlen group sales in the retail sector (pln million/thousand tonnes):


             sales                         2016                           2015



                                   value          volume         value             volume         change %


     1                                     2               3             4              5    6=(2-4)/   7=(3-5)/
                                                                                                4          5



     light distillates1            11 838            3 136           12 084          3 000     (2.0%)        4.5%



     medium                        14 305            5 051           15 567          4 986     (8.1%)        1.3%
     distillates2



     others3                         3 698                 0          3 401             0       8.7%            -



     total                         29 841            8 187           31 052          7 986     (3.9%)        2.5%



1)
     gasoline, lpg
2)
     diesel oil; light heating oil sold by orlen deutschland
3)
     other values – including revenues from sales of non-fuel goods and services

structure of sales revenue of the orlen group in the retail sector:




                                                               306

markets

domestic markets of the orlen group in the retail sector include pkn orlen operating in the
polish market, orlen deutschland gmbh in the german market, benzina network in the czech
market and ab ventus nafta in the lithuanian market.

sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of domestic markets (thousands of tonnes):


             sales                 2016              2015          change          change %



 1                                         2                3         4=(2-3)        5=(2-3)/3


 poland                              5 052.4          4 784.9           267.5             5.6%


 germany                             2 453.6          2 602.0          (148.4)           (5.7%)


 czech republic                        617.4            537.8             79.6           14.8%


 lithuania                              63.2             61.3              1.9            3.1%



 total                               8 186.6          7 986.0           200.6             2.5%



structure of sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of domestic markets:




             a) polish market



                                               307

fuel sales volumes in 2016 increased by 5.6% (y/y) and amounted to 5 052 thousand tonnes. the
completion of a series of developmental projects and the implemented efficiency initiatives
contributed to an increase in the annual average sales volume of codo fuel stations by 3.2%
(y/y) to a level of 4.25 million litres. the total sales of premium fuel (verva) increased by
12% (y/y).

the sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of the polish market (thousands of
tonnes):


            sales                   2016              2015           change          change %



 1                                          2                3          4=(2-3)        5=(2-3)/3


 light distillates                    1 809.3          1 686.0            123.3               7.3%


 medium distillates                   3 243.1          3 098.9            144.2               4.7%



 total                                5 052.4          4 784.9            267.5               5.6%



structure of the sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of the polish market:




in 2016 another 17 facilities were added to orlen group’s retail network and as of the year end
the network consisted of 1 766 fuel stations.

as a part of the investment program there were 12 own codo stations launched (including
1 passenger service center “mop”), 7 facilities were modernized and two own stations were
closed. the result of these activities was an increase in the number of own stations, bringing the
total up to1 317 facilities.

the pkn orlen franchise network increased by 23 new fuel stations and included at year-end

                                                308

449 dofo stations.

in 2016 the process of changing the brand from bliska to orlen was completed in the own
stations channel. in the dofo segment the project was continued and 43 new stations received
an orlen brand. the number of premium stations operating under the orlen brand has
increased from 1 541 in 2015 to 1 616 at the end of 2016. a total of 108 stations operated under
the bliska brand as of the end of 2016. other stations are facilities with a so-called simplified
format, the number of which was reduced from 49 to 42 in 2015.

in 2016, the orlen group increased the volume in fleet sales by over 10% (y/y), achieving
a record level of 31.8% of the total volume of sales in the sector. in 2016, orlen started work on
a new international fleet strategy allowing polish customers to access filling points in most
european countries. sales to the small and medium enterprises segment increased by 16.9%
(y/y).

in the first half of 2016, tests of convenience stores and of the new food corner ended. the
project was initiated by implementing the new stop cafe 2.0 format in the orlen chain,
combining a food concept with a convenience store. since three versions of the formats were
developed, it will be possible to launch stop cafe 2.0 at stations of all kinds, including the biggest
highway structures.

as of the end of 2016, 41 orlen stations had the new stop cafe 2.0. format in place, and its
further implementation will constitute the main project in the non-fuel area in the coming years.

the year 2016 was another period for the improvement of the results of car washes - 10% of the
existing automatic car washes were upgraded, 9 more were put into operation, and the failure
rate of the facilities as well as downtime were reduced. these activities contributed to an
increase of revenue from the related services by 10% (y/y).

            b) german market

in 2016 the orlen group recorded a decrease in the total sales of fuels of (5.7)% (y/y) on the
german market. this result includes both retail sales at fuel stations, as well as middle distillates
sold using wholesale formula. the retail volume of orlen deutschland increased by 2.6% (y/y),
mainly due to higher diesel oil sales (y/y). better results of the retail segment did not offset the
decrease in diesel oil and light heating oil sales realised in the wholesale formula. in 2016, the
average annual flow per station was maintained at the level that it stood at the previous year and
amounted to 4.5 million litres.




                                                 309

sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of the german market (thousands of
tonnes):


            sales                   2016              2015           change          change %



 1                                          2                3          4=(2-3)         5=(2-3)/3


 light distillates                    1 106.3          1 117.0            (10.7)           (1.0%)


 medium distillates                   1 347.3          1 485.0           (137.7)           (9.3%)



 total                                2 453.6          2 602.0           (148.4)           (5.7%)



structure of sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of the german market:




in 2016, orlen the deutschland network included 10 new stations, including 3 within individual
acquisition projects and 7 stations from the 13 stations of the sun station portfolio purchased in
2015. after the shutdown of 3 facilities, the network of stations managed by orlen deutschland
grew by 7 facilities to the level of 572 stations. at the end of 2016, there were 554 facilities
operating in the economy segment under the star brand, 1 station of the orlen brand located
in hamburg and 17 stations operating under supermarkets.

in 2016, star stations once again recorded an improvement in non-fuel margins, i.a. as a result of
adjusting the shops’ offer, changing the gastronomy offer and due to an increase in the
availability of such services in the network. an important factor influencing the non-fuel business
area’s results was the continuation of the replacement and modernisation process of car washes.
during 2016 forty car washes were replaced.



                                                310

            c) czech market

2016 was a consecutive year of high dynamic of fuel sales in the benzina network at the level of
14.8% (y/y). the average annual sales recorded by benzina stations increased by 6.7% (y/y) and
reached a level of 2.1 million litres. an increase of verva fuels availability in more benzina
stations contributed to an increase in the verva sales share of the whole sales volume by
2 percentage points to 19.3% (y/y).

sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of the czech market (thousands of tonnes):


            sales                   2016              2015           change          change %



 1                                          2                3          4=(2-3)        5=(2-3)/3


 light distillates                      205.0            178.6             26.4            14.8%


 medium distillates                     412.4            359.2             53.2            14.8%



 total                                  617.4            537.8             79.6            14.8%



structure of the sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of the czech market:




as of the end of 2016, the orlen group was running a chain of 363 stations in the czech
republic, operating under two main brands: benzina plus (114 stations), benzina (231 stations)
and benzina expres (5 self-service stations) and 13 stations operating mainly under the so-called
simplified brand.

in 2016, the process of taking over 68 stations purchased in 2015 from omv located in the
territory of the czech republic started. as of the end of 2016, 20 stations had been included in


                                                311

the benzina chain, and the process of taking over the remaining facilities should be complete by
the end of 2017. in 2016, 4 new own stations were put into operation (including 1 highway
station and 1 self-service station) and one franchise agreement was signed.

in 2016, a decision was made on brand unification in the czech market. ultimately, the orlen
group is going to run stations in the czech republic under the refreshed brand of benzina. the
chain of self-service stations (benzina expres) is going to be the exception. ultimately, the
benzina stations are to become a premium chain. verva fuels will be available at each service
station operating under the revamped benzina brand.

the flexible pricing policy and the implementation of prepaid fleet cards, representing a unique
solution on the czech market, allowed the fleet sales segment to record an increase by volume of
9.7% (y/y).

in 2016, benzina recorded an increase in revenues from the sale of non-fuel products and
services by over 35% (y/y). an increase by nearly 28% (y/y) was recorded in the case of catering
services. 168 stop cafe and stop cafe bistro outlets were operating by the end of 2016, this is an
increase of 37 locations (y/y).

            d) lithuanian market

in 2016, the orlen group recorded an increase in sales volume of 3.1% (y/y) in the lithuanian
market. especially noticeable were the medium distillates sales increases which were partly
offset by a decrease in light distillates sales (y/y). the average annual flow per station increased
by 11.0% (y/y) to a level of 3.2 million litres.

the sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of the lithuanian market (thousands of
tonnes):


            sales                   2016               2015           change           change %



 1                                           2                 3          4=(2-3)        5=(2-3)/3


 light distillates                        15.5             18.0              (2.5)         (13.9%)


 medium distillates                       47.7             43.3               4.4            10.2%



 total                                    63.2             61.3               1.9             3.1%




                                                 312

structure of the sales volume of the orlen group in the retail sector of the lithuanian market:




as of the 31 december 2016 the retail network in lithuania comprised 25 own stations of the
coco model in the premium segment, under the orlen brand. in 2016 the last ventus-branded
fuel station, operating in the economy segment, was excluded from the network. in 2016 verva
fuel share in the total sales volume increased by 0.8 p.p. to 19.5%.

an increase in fleet sales of 15.8% (y/y) had a big impact on sales volumes. in 2016 an
improvement in margins in the non-fuel business area was once again recorded.

sources of supply

the majority of fuels sold on the polish, czech and lithuanian markets comes from production
within the downstream sector of the orlen group. an exception to this trend is the german
market, in which the orlen group does not have its own refining assets. the largest suppliers of
this german company include the following sellers operating on the german market, i.a. bp
europe se, shell deutschland oil gmbh, holborn european marketing company limited, total
deutschland gmbh, esso deutschland gmbh, raffinerie heide gmbh. an important supplier of
fuels to orlen deutschland gmbh is also the czech company unipetrol rps s.r.o., a member of
the orlen group.




                                               313

upstream




the upstream has a significant position in pkn orlen’s value creation map, and
is consistently increasing its contribution to the group’s performance. we are
expanding our reserves and acquiring the know-how that is particularly valuable
in the upstream industry. by optimising work and focusing on the most promising
projects, we expect to leverage the strong potential for production growth, both
in poland and canada.

                                                                 janusz radomski
                         president of the management board at orlen upstream




                                               314

                                                      units          canada           poland



                               natural gas       mmboe                    102.5             11.3
                               and oil
                               reserves (2p)


                               output            mmboe / year               4.5              0.5


                               average           mboe / day                12.2              1.4
                               production


                               output            %                        43/57           10/90
                               structure
                               (liquid / gas)


                               net drilling      number                    13.1              5.0


                               licenses          number                        -               31



the new strategy of the orlen group assumes the further development of exploration and
production activities in order to expand production and own reserves of crude oil and natural gas.

the development of competences in the area of production required the completion of an
international team of experts, capable of building and managing a diversified portfolio of assets
and employing the latest available methods of exploration and production technologies. by the
end of 2016, orlen upstream with its subsidiary fx energy was working either independently or
with a partner (pgnig) in 31 licenses in poland with a total area of about 19 thousand km2,
located in 9 voivodships of poland and in the area of three oil basins. the share of the orlen
group is 100% in 17 licenses, 51% in one license, and 49% in 13 licenses. the group had 2p
reserves of 11.3 mmboe at the end of 2016, with an average annual extraction of 1.2 mboe/d. in
canada, the orlen group operates mainly in the province of alberta and has production assets
of over a total area of nearly 1.6 thousand km2 net (377 thousand acres) with an annual average
production of hydrocarbons in 2016 reaching 12.2 mboe/d, and a total of 2p reserves of 102.5
mmboe at the end of the year.

activities in poland

in 2016, the orlen group continued optimization of its asset portfolio. in 2016, the orlen group
continued its asset portfolio optimisation. this was related both to the acquisition of new areas
for exploration and to the abandonment of other, less promising parts of the licenses. in
a tendering process, the poręba-tarnawa prospecting and exploration license was obtained from


                                                315

the ministry of environment in the małopolskie voivodship, and another prospecting and
exploration license, skołyszyn, located on the border of the małopolskie and podkarpackie
voivodships. as part of the edge area, a new license was obtained for the prospecting and
exploration of hydrocarbons, named tuchola n.

an assessment was also performed of the appropriateness of continuing prospecting work in the
licenses located in the mazowieckie and lubelskie voivodships (the lublin shale and karbon
project), the łódzkie voivodship (the mid poland unconventionals project), and the małopolskie
voivodship (the karpaty project), and a decision was made to concentrate further exploration
work only in selected areas within the said projects.

currently, hydrocarbon production in the polish market takes place in collaboration with pgnig
s.a. and reaches a level of 1.2 mboe/d, proportional to orlen group’s share of 49%. production
is carrying out on the płotki project located in the wielkopolska. it’s characterized by high
potential in accumulation of hydrocarbons.

as part of the work carried out in the podlasie-lublin basin, the acquisition of 3d seismic data
was completed in 2016 in the wierzbica license. the data were subsequently interpreted further
as part of a scientific research project within the blue gas program. work related to the
decommissioning of wells and well sites in the wierzbica and wodynie-łuków license areas was
also carried out.
in 2016, an analysis of 2d seismic data ended in the wodynie-łuków license area. 3d seismic
data were also acquired in the lublin and garwolin license areas and in block 255.

in the perm basin, an analysis of 2d seismic data was performed in the sieradz block.
documentation was completed and preparatory work was also carried out for the development of
a part of the sieraków area.

in 2016 in the płotki area an exploratory well was drilled in the pyzdry license and the drilling of
an exploratory well was commenced under the kórnik-środa license. at the same time, planning-
design activities for the development of two deposits within the same license area were carried
out and planning activities for the construction of pyzdry gas station were initiated. in 2016, the
development of the karmin deposit ended in the jarocin-grabina license, and production started.
moreover, two exploratory wells were drilled in the edge project, in the unisław-gronowo and
brda-rzeczenica license.

as part of the work carried out in the carpathian basin in the area of the bieszczady project, the
acquisition of 2d and 3d seismic data was carried out. in 2016, a production test was performed
for a well in block 437, and drilling of two exploratory wells commenced at blocks 437 and 457.

as part of the karpaty project, an exploratory well was drilled at block 435. as part of the miocen
project, the acquisition of 3d seismic data was carried out in the siennów-rokietnica license area
and their analysis was initiated

exploration projects of the orlen group in poland:




                                                316

source: own preparation

activities in canada

the production activity in canada is carried out mainly in the alberta province through
a subsidiary - orlen upstream canada. in 2016, yearly production amounted to 4.5 mmboe.

operating activities in the stable canadian market fit within the risk profile defined in the overall
strategy of the group. the favourable parameters of the assets held in terms of reservoir, as well
as the development of business in the region, which has already been well explored, reduce the
operational risk related to the investment. the canadian market is characterized by excellent
access to developed drilling and maintenance services, as well as by access to qualified staff with
experience with regard to the extraction of unconventional deposits. the stable tax system and
friendly regulatory environment are also important.

in 2016, a gas plant owned by orlen upstream canada was put into operation in the
ferrier/strachan area. it has a production capacity of 1.1 million m3 of reservoir fluid per day,
allowing a total processing capacity of 6.5 mboe/d. the orlen group also has some production
assets in the province of new brunswick as well as a share of 10.7% in goldboro lng, a project
involving the construction of an lng export terminal on the east coast of canada.

assets in canada:




                                                317

sales volume of the upstream sector

the orlen group volume sales in the upstream sector (thousand tonnes):


         sales               2016                  2015



                       value      volume      value     volume            change %


 1                       2            3        4           5       6=(2-4)/4     7=(3-5)/5


 crude oil              84            76     104          96         (19%)         (21%)


 natural gas           172          359       68          179        153%          101%


 others                186          123       43          35         333%          251%



 total                 442          558      215          310        106%            80%



until the end of 2015 the production and sales of hydrocarbons was realised only through the
upstream in canada. thanks to the acquisition of 100% of american company fx energy shares,
conducted in december 2015 in 2016, the production and sales of hydrocarbons were also
carried out in the polish market.

in 2016 the aggregate sales in both markets amounted to nearly 5 mmboe an increase of 80%



                                             318

(y/y).

sales volume structure in the upstream sector of the orlen group:




  see the recording „upstream segment”




                                             319

corporate functions
corporate functions comprise activities involving
management, administration and other auxiliary
functions performed by certain orlen group
companies for the operating segments.
the companies performing corporate functions engage in a wide range of activities, including:

     protection of people and property and technical security, comprehensive accounting and
     bookkeeping, hr/payroll, and inventory management services provided to pkn orlen and
     other orlen group companies
     laboratory services, including analyses of petroleum products, water, sewage, soil and air
     design and building supervision services for the refining, petrochemical and energy
     industries
     financing and insurance services
     real estate management and office administration
     social activities

corporate functions are handled by: orlen administracja, orlen ochrona, orlen projekt,
orlen laboratorium, orlen centrum usług korporacyjnych, płocki park przemysłowo-
technologiczny (the płock industry and technology park), orlen holding malta, orlen finance
ab, orlen capital ab, hc verva litvinov, a.s., as well as pkn orlen, orlen lietuva group and
unipetrol.




                                              320

sustainable development
outlook csr 2017+
since 2015, pkn orlen has been rolling out its csr
strategy,which is based on the following philosophy: “in
pursuing its business strategy, the company is always
guided by the principle that value growth should be
aligned with the interests of external stakeholders and
rely on the sustainable and responsible use of
resources."




pkn orlen’s csr strategy is closely connected with it corporate business strategy. based on the
‘core values and standards of conduct’ of pkn orlen, it seeks to motivate employees to look for
new ideas and innovative solutions. while supporting business, it builds a sense of shared
responsibility for implementing csr objectives within the organisation and promotes the idea of
responsibility and stakeholder engagement. therefore, the company’s future csr initiatives will


                                             321

be based on the assumptions of the new orlen group strategy for 2017–2021 announced in
december 2016, with value creation, people, and financial strength as its keystones.

2017 is the last year of the implementation of the csr strategy for 2015–2017. this means that
the work on the new csr strategy is well underway. the new strategy will draw on the
company’s business strategy and csr trends, and, most importantly, it will respond to the needs
of the orlen group and expectations of its stakeholders. the united nations’ sustainable
development goals announced in 2015 will also be given priority. in addition, the company will
need to satisfy the requirement to report non-financial data.

business strategies are expected to address the challenges posed by civilisational changes,
progress and advancement, and evolving stakeholder expectations. responsible leadership and,
consequently, the sustainable growth of a business, is a way to mitigate risks, build trust in the
brand and enhance its reputation. responsible management across the orlen group is driven by
our awareness of the company’s impact on its immediate and more distant environment and
predictions of its short-term effects and the burden to be borne by future generations. profit is no
longer the measure of success; the key is to build long-term value, that is, to ensure effective
value management.

trends
in the near future, corporate social responsibility will be shaped by a number of trends. sdgs, or
sustainabilty development goals,announced by the united nations in september 2015, will
definitely be one of them. the agenda contains 17 general sustainable development goals and
169 specific targets focusing on the elimination of poverty, combating inequalities, and
preventing climate change over the horizon of the next 15 years. the united nations calls on
local parliaments and governments, civic societies, as well as companies and entrepreneurs, to
work towards the achievement of these goals and targets. pkn orlen is actively involved in the
implementation of sdgs in poland as a partner of workshops organised for fuel sector operators.
the company has already identified a number of such projects, and takes into account sdgs
when planning future actions.




                                                322

the orlen group also takes into consideration the un guiding principles on business and human
rights: implementing the un ‘protect, respect and remedy’ framework adopted in june 2011 by
the united nations, and the related reporting framework. those guiding principles define the
existing obligations of states to protect human rights, and point out the responsibility of business
enterprises to respect human rights and improve the access of those affected to effective
remedies, which is of particular importance to business. the guiding principles should apply to
”all states and to all business enterprises.”

development of social capital is another major trend. here, success will depend mainly on social
dialogue based on trust, and sustainable relations built on that foundation will bring benefits to
all stakeholders involved in the process. the protection of human rights invariably remains one of
key trends in that area.

in poland, individualism still prevails over socially-oriented attitudes. however, this can change
through educational campaigns and transparency of business activities, one element of which is
open and reliable communication. here, expectations are running high, but also obligations are
rising. as a result, effective reporting of non-financial data is another big trend. up until now, non-
financial reporting was a voluntary initiative on the part of business enterprises; however, on
entry into force of the eu directive 2014/95/ue on disclosure of non-financial and diversity
information, as of 2017 it will be mandatory for all public companies, banks and investment funds
which have more than 500 employees, a balance sheet total of at least eur 20 million, or a net
turnover of at least eur 40 million. tthe provisions of the directive are reflected in the amended
accounting act published on december 15th 2016. it may be expected that the importance of
non-financial disclosures for analysts and investors will increase accordingly, as companies will
be required to disclose non-financial information such as environmental impacts, diversity
policies, respect for human rights, risk assessment, and information about many other areas.
importantly, the disclosure of such information is based on the comply or explain rule.


                                                 323

there is no doubt that integrated reporting which covers both financial and non-financial
information will allow for a better evaluation of the entity’s situation in comparison with financial
disclosures alone, as reports based on the new standards will include information on social,
personnel, and environmental policies, anti-corruption measures, and the protection of human
rights

pkn orlen has published its csr reports since 2003, and since 2008 they have been drawn up
according to the global reporting initiative standard. in 2015, the company published its first
integrated report, and all full-year reports have been based on this formula ever since.

the sustainable supply chain is another trend gaining in importance in recent years. obviously,
the adoption of high standards across the entire supply chain is becoming a prerequisite.
a responsible employer must always consider the expectations of its employees as to having
respect for their rights, health and safety, and adherence to core values.

foundations of responsible business
the overriding objective of the orlen group’s csr efforts is to create value both for the group
companies and for its stakeholders. ethical, social and environmental considerations are not only
ingrained in our csr strategy, but are, first of all, part and parcel of the group’s day-to-day
operations.

the orlen group’s social initiatives are driven not only by the company’s internal needs and the
stakeholders’ expectations. first and foremost, they reinforce our business position and send
a signal of the company’s awareness of its large-scale impacts. therefore, the strategy considers
the challenges faced by polish businesses according to the ‘vision of sustainable development of
polish businesses until 2050‘, which assumes active involvement of the business community to
support poland’s social and economic development. the document draws on the international
initiative of the world business council for sustainable development, and highlights key
challenges and actions to be taken to achieve sustainability targets. six priority areas identified
by the world business council for sustainable development are: social capital, human capital,
infrastructure, natural resources, energy, as well as the quality of the state and public
institutions.

future operations of companies will be also driven by the csr standards that socially responsible
businesses are expected to apply. those standards certainly include the global compact
principles, which are reflected in documents such as the ‘core values and standards of conduct’
of pkn orlen s. a., and the group’s current csr strategy. however, they also include reporting
standards such as the global reporting initiative, industry guidelines such as ipieca
(the international petroleum industry environmental conservation association), or oecd
guidance for international businesses. both our activities and reporting practice also take account
of the seven priority areas set out in the iso 26000 standard, which contains guidelines on social
responsibility.

csr activities translate into the business dimension, and socially responsible companies are
included in dedicated stock exchange indices, such as the dow jones sustainability group
indexes or ftse4good, and poland’s respect index. since 2009, when the respect index was
launched, pkn orlen’s shares have been its constituent every single year, following a difficult
qualification procedure. in december 2016, a new ftse4good emerging index was created,
featuring pkn orlen stock. the company was therefore qualified as an entity driven by high


                                                 324

standards of environmental protection, social responsibility, and good business practices.

considering the growing number of investors who find it important that a company is managed in
a socially responsible and sustainable manner, takes care to ensure a high quality of investor
relations, and reports its financial data on a regular basis, inclusion in the respect index serves
as a reference for potential investors looking for attractive and safe investments.

selected areas of our activities
the orlen group has been consistently building its image as a socially responsible company
focusing on stakeholder engagement and social commitment.

the company is engaged in a number of social sponsorship projects, which will be continued in
future years. of all the csr initiatives across the orlen group, environmental protection, sports
sponsorship, health and safety, social commitment, charity and patronage of culture are the
areas where the group’s involvement is the strongest.

the company’s long-term support for the third sector also deserves a mention. the corporate
orlen – gift from the heart foundation is developing. the number of cross-sectoral
partnership programmes carried out by the grant fund for płock foundation and the good
neighbourhood grant fund for ostrów wielkopolski association is also growing. and the new
museum of oil and gas industry in bóbrka foundation brings together the many years of tradition
and new directions of growth under one roof.

new initiatives focusing on the promotion of poland and our national identity have been
launched. on the one hand, they are related to the sponsorship of polish sports; on the other,
they open up the company to the positive influence of high culture. an important initiative is pkn
orlen’s participation in the polish national foundation, whose goal is to promote and protect the
image of the republic of poland and the polish economy abroad, to support the development of
new technologies, inventions and innovation, and to disseminate and implement new
technologies in practice, to support polish culture, art, protection of national heritage, and the
promotion of knowledge concerning polish history, economy and culture, as well as patriotic
attitudes. the protection of poland’s natural environment is also one of the key objectives of the
foundation, as is the support for the promotion and implementation of corporate social
responsibility principles.




                                               325

csr strategy implementation
pkn orlen is currently implementing its csr strategy
for 2015–2017, which states that ”value growth should
be aligned with the interests of external stakeholders
and rely on the sustainable and responsible use of
resources”. in practice, this translates into
incorporating corporate social responsibility principles
in to the process of planning business activities.
by defining measurable csr objectives, we are able to analyse and assess the outcomes of these
activities for the company and its stakeholders. based on the ‘core values and standards of
conduct’ of pkn orlen, the strategy seeks to motivate employees to look for new ideas and
innovative solutions. while supporting business, it builds a sense of shared responsibility for
implementing csr objectives within the organisation and promotes the idea of responsibility and
stakeholder engagement. the strategy is being implemented across three areas:

      organisation, where the key goal is to build lasting relationships with employees based on
      diversity, a sense of security and development opportunities as well as combining social
      and professional roles. our efforts in this area are focused on enhancing employee security,
      development and diversity management and maintaining a mutually beneficial work-life
      balance.
      immediate environment, where priority is given to developing the social conscience and
      a sense of social responsibility in our trading partners and customers through sharing best
      practices and knowledge and implementing the highest csr standards. our activities in this
      area are centred around building the image of a responsible company, pursuing social
      outreach projects, promoting csr concepts among stakeholders and encouraging their to
      enhance their sense of social responsibility.
      distant environment, where pkn orlen aspires to implement its strategy, promote
      innovation and set the highest industry standards in business ethics and environmental
      protection. our projects are designed to promote new business areas, ensure that
      investment projects are carried out in a responsible manner, and set and promote ethical
      standards in business.

the implementation of the csr strategy is proceeding as planned. at pkn orlen,
16 coordinators are overseeing 55 projects outlined in the strategy, and orlen group companies
have announced 488 csr activities which are to be carried out. the pkn orlen management
board and the supervisory board’s corporate social responsibility committee periodically review
the progress of the strategy. key elements for the strategy’s success are the full implementation
of the adopted initiatives, educating and inspiring employees, and fostering a sense of
responsibility for the impact the company’s activities and decisions have on the environment.

the csr strategy and the projects implemented within its framework are a logical consequence
and continuation of the activities undertaken by the orlen group in pursuit of its social goals.

selected events:



                                               326

     1999 responsible care − continued involvement in a project initiated by pkn orlen’s legal
     predecessor
     2000 the company joins the programme to restore the peregrine falcon population, in
     cooperation with the ‘sokół’ (‘falcon’) wildlife protection association
     2001 the corporate orlen – gift from the heart foundation is established
     2002 the sectoral partnership programme is launched
     2003 the company joins the global compact initiative
     2004 employee volunteering programme is initiated
     2005 the ‘code of ethics’ is published
     2006 ‘orlen. safe roads’ programme is launched
     2007 the csr module is created within the vitay loyalty scheme
     2008 fairtrade certified coffee is served at orlen service stations for the first time
     2009 pkn orlen qualifies for inclusion in the respect index
     2010 the integrated management system is implemented
     2011 the ‘declaration on sustainable development in the energy sector in poland’ is
     signed
     2012 the ‘core values and standards of conduct’ of pkn orlen are adopted
     2013 young talented poles are promoted as part of the ‘poles with verve’ project
     2014 the anwil for włocławek foundation is established
     2015 implementation of the csr strategy for pkn orlen commences
     2016 the first orlen group’s integrated report is published

key performance indicators (kpis) related to individual areas of the csr strategy:

     1. organisation

          orlen olympics and chemists’ day – with the participation of several thousands of
          company employees from five countries (poland, lithuania, the czech republic,
          germany and canada) and a family picnic open to all inhabitants of płock
          660 participants of the open doors day at the płock production plant for the families
          of pkn orlen employees
          the ‘it’s a good idea to help’ grant competition – 1,958 volunteers and
          777 beneficiaries; coverage of the project: 4 provinces
          we act together to help’ voluntary scheme – 760 volunteers and more than
          260 beneficiaries
          ‘eco-volunteering’ programme in płock and warsaw as part of earth day –
          144 volunteers
          ‘good energy factory’ – a volunteer programme of employees of the płock production
          plant for the benefit of the local community: long-term partnership with foster care
          institutions in płock and its vicinity – 450 volunteers and nearly 500 beneficiaries
          project management day – event organised to create a project community at the
          company, and apply in practice mechanisms of knowledge management in projects;
          contributes to the development of project management skills and culture –
          150 employees involved across the orlen group

     2. close environment

          more than 33 thousand participants in the ‘orlen warsaw marathon’



                                             327

         more than 100,000 participants of central europe’s biggest motor and entertainment
         show – ‘verva street racing’, organised in the vicinity of the national stadium in
         warsaw, combining world-class motor sports and family entertainment
         funding provided to more than 150 fire brigades from all over the country for safety
         related activities
         the orlen group’s first ever integrated report
         continuation of the cross-sectoral partnership programme – support for the grant
         fund for płock foundation and the good neighbourhood grant fund for ostrów
         wielkopolski association
         nation-wide social campaign ‘gym class with the champions’ − seeking to promote
         sports and broadly promote physical activity as an element vital for a child’s proper
         development – number of children: 11,172, number of athletes: 88, number of towns:
         35
         more than 500 participants of walk-through events at the płock production plant

    3. distant environment

         maintaining the prestigious title of the world’s most ethical company
         promotion of the polish economy − projects promoting polish achievements:
         ‘congress 590’, ‘100% polish’, ‘poland’s 200 largest companies’, ‘i buy because it’s
         polish’, ‘poland’s compass’, and ‘the wprost wallet’
         participation in the programme to restore the peregrine falcon population in poland
         since 1999, in cooperation with the ‘sokół’ (‘falcon’) wildlife protection
         association; since the first in 2002, 42 peregrine falcon chicks have hatched on the
         grounds of the pkn orlen complex
         a proprietary project called ‘a future fuelled by knowledge’

responsible 2016




                                       2016

january
       launch of a nationwide social
       project ‘gym class with the
       champion’


february
       orlen among best employers for



                                            328

        the fifth time − top employer polska
        certificate 2016
        best practices of anwil appreciated
        by the responsible business forum
        more >>

march
        pkn orlen among companies
        awarded the title of the world’s
        most ethical company, for the third
        consecutive time more >>
        pkn orlen wins the main award in
        the ‘i respond to poland’
        competition
        1st edition of the ‘chemical studies
        for the champions’ programme

april
        announcement of the pkn orlen
        ‘supplier code of conduct’ more >>
        orlen warsaw marathon and
        charity run more >>
        selection of winners in
        a crowdsourcing contest held to find
        innovative solutions improving the
        energy efficiency of the refinery’s
        production processes more >>
        certification in accordance with the
        world-renowned iscc system as
        confirmation of pkn orlen’s
        compliance with the highest
        standards of trading in products
        meeting the sustainability criteria
        participation of orlen volunteers in
        the earth day

may
        announcement of an internship
        programme for students of technical
        universities under a scheme run by
        the ministry of energy
        ‘golden csr leaf’ award for pkn
        orlen
        pkn orlen at the 6th european
        economic congress more >>
        international family day −


                                               329

       participation in the ‘two hours for
       the family’ campaign
       22nd płock orlen polish open more
       >>
       pkn orlen sponsors the płock
       youth olympics 2016
       ‘light school bag’ project −
       students of the 4th grade of primary
       school no. 23 in płock receive
       tablets to use instead of heavy
       paper coursebooks

june
       orlen olympics and chemists’ day
       more >>
       cooperation agreement between
       pkn orlen and the warsaw
       university of technology
       poland’s first service station without
       barriers – orlen service station no.
       682 at ul. solidarności 100 in
       warsaw
       start of cooperation between pkn
       orlen and the polish birds
       association under the ‘orlen for
       eagles’ programme
       pkn orlen sponsors an exhibition
       of italian renaissance masters at
       the national museum in warsaw
       cooperation agreement with the
       cracow university of technology
       final round of the ‘athletic
       thursdays’ with pkn orlen

july
       pkn orlen sponsors the polish
       paralympic committee
       publication of the orlen group’s
       integrated report 2015 more >>
       start of cooperation with the
       kamienica theatre
       pkn orlen sponsors the 50th jan
       kiepura festival in krynica-zdrój
       2nd edition of the competition for
       the most interesting initiatives
       under the orlen grant programme



                                                330

    ‘it’s a good idea to help’
    internship programme ‘headed for
    orlen’
    football holidays with orlen, free
    day camps for children aged 7−15

august
    pkn orlen sponsors the polish
    olympic team at the 2016 olympic
    games in rio de janeiro
    pkn orlen is patron of the ‘chopin
    and his europe’ festival
    start of cooperation between pkn
    orlen and mountain rescue
    organisation gopr

september
    vitay points can be donated to
    support initiatives to save polish
    eagles
    pkn orlen takes part in the
    yanosik ‘slow down near schools’
    campaign
    charity event during verva street
    racing (gathering donations to
    finance purchase of medical
    equipment for the university
    children’s hospital in lublin
    occupational health and safety
    week at the orlen group
    pkn orlen as an industry partner of
    workshops promoting the un
    sustaiable development goals
    pkn orlen at the 26th economic
    forum in krynica
    pkn orlen as patron of the gdynia
    film festival

october
    launch of the ministry of energy’s
    internship programme ‘energy for
    the future’
    first edition of the orlen – gift
    from the heart foundation’s
    programme to support hospices in
    poland


                                          331

    the orlen group 2015 integrated
    report with most points ever and
    four prizes in ‘the best annual
    report 2015’ competition
    śiwatowy dzień godnościglobal
    dignity day
    orlen lietuva spoorlen lietuva
    sponsors the polish film festival in
    vilnius, lithuania
    ii edycja 2nd edition of the ‘for
    eagles’ scholarship programme
    10th edition of the ‘orlen safe
    roads’ scheme

november
    final round of the next edition of the
    ‘my above average interests’
    scholarship programme for children
    in junior high schools and secondary
    schools in the city of płock and the
    county of płock
    winners named in the ‘grant fund
    for płock’ foundation’s competition
    (7th edition for ngos, 2nd edition
    for individuals and informal groups)
    workshops for caregivers running
    family group homes
    end of the pilot edition of the
    ‘valuable gym class’ competition
    pkn orlen at the 6th csr fair
    10th edition of ‘become a santa
    claus’ helper – make someone’s
    dreams come true’, a christmas
    initiative of the orlen volunteering
    programme
    6th edition of the ‘orlen knowledge
    day’ educational event
    tests of an innovative technology
    for removing volatile organic
    compounds from polluted air
    streams through biodegradation of
    odour compounds by bacteria
    pkn orlen at the 590 congress
    ‘free the polish business potential’
    in rzeszów
    free swimming lessons for children
    from 4th to 6th grade and persons


                                             332

    aged 40+ living in płock

december
    pkn orlen’s new online platform
    ‘innovations, start-ups’
    ‘yes to safety’ social campaign by
    the orlen – gift from the heart
    foundation
    completion of the next edition of
    a programme to support fire
    brigades
    pkn orlen and the płock branch of
    the warsaw university of
    technology distinguished for best
    practices in business, education,
    and science
    pkn orlen partners the 2nd
    industrial forum in karpacz
    orlen group at the ‘nafta/chemia
    2016’ conference
    ‘gardens of light’ for płock residents




                                             333

indirect economic impacts
the orlen group comprises 70 companies, including
59 subsidiaries, located in poland and in other
countries. all of them follow the group’s csr strategy,
which states that value growth should be aligned with
the interests of external stakeholders.




orlen group companies place a special focus on their role as socially responsible members of
their respective communities. the group considers both the direct and indirect effects of its
activities on the environment it operates in. it is an employer, tax payer, sponsor, charity
provider, and partner for a number of suppliers, institutions and organisations.

workforce

in 2016, the orlen group had a total workforce of 19,700. as an employer it exerts influence not
only on the lives of its employees, but also on their dependants.

to give a few numbers, as of december 31st 2016 anwil had 1,232 employees, while orlen
południe employed 639 people, plus the personnel working at other companies in its group. in
2016, the upstream segment’s workforce totalled 142 (orlen upstream: 97, orlen upstream
canada: 42, and fx energy: 3), iks solino employed 258 people, and the unipetrol group had
a staff of 4,497.

taxes

in 2016, pkn orlen alone paid pln 28bn in taxes, of which pln 166m was paid in płock, home to
pkn orlen’s production plant.

the essence of responsibility in this respect is diligent compliance with the applicable legal
requirements.

anwil pays taxes to włocławek, including taxes for property, vehicles, perpetual usufruct of land,
as well as corporate and personal income tax. in 2016, these payments exceeded pln 120m.


                                                334

the amount of taxes and other fiscal charges, i.e. vat, pit and salary overheads at orlen
upstream and fx energy poland reached nearly pln 10m in 2016. furthermore, in relation to
their exploration and production operations, last year both companies paid almost pln 2.5m to
public administration bodies in charges for mining rights and mineral production royalties. orlen
upstream canada reported input gst (general sales tax) in excess of output gst charged in
connection with its operating and investment activities in 2016, and received a tax refund.
payments to canadian public administration bodies associated with exploration and production
operations, such as royalties, licence fees and lease rents, totalled pln 18.1m.1

in 2016, orlen południe paid a total of almost pln 140m in vat, excise tax, pit withholdings
(pit-4), property tax, cit, and the vehicle tax.

taxes paid by iks solino were almost pln 22m, comprising vat, property tax, vehicle tax, cit,
and pit withholdings (pit-4).

unipetrol paid over pln 4m in local taxes (litvínov, ústí and most region).

1)
     amounts determined based on the methodology applied in the statement of payments to governments for 2016

csr initiatives

the orlen group’s efforts with respect to corporate social responsibility are governed by the
csr strategy. one manifestation of the group companies’ involvement in the lives of local
communities is extensive social sponsorship and charity activities.

about 30 orlen group companies have declared that they engage in csr activities. to improve
the quality of life of local populations, programmes dedicated to local communities have been
established, such as those in płock and włocławek. the group companies lend a helping hand to
solve problems of their local communities, particularly in the areas of healthcare, safety, and
education. orlen group companies also support projects promoting arts and culture, amateur
and professional sports, and development of urban infrastructure. the underlying principle is that
the group companies should help eliminate the most pressing problems of their respective
communities. inter-sectoral partnerships are one form of such support. pkn orlen was among
the founders of the grant fund for płock foundation, and its representatives are actively involved
in the foundation’s activities. the foundation promotes and provides co-funding for local ngos’
initiatives. similar objectives are pursued by the good neighbourhood grant fund for ostrów
wielkopolski association, which was established by the town of ostrów wielkopolski, the
municipality and town of odolanów, and the municipality of ostrów wielkopolski.

the wide array of csr activities undertaken by anwil was extended in 2014, when the anwil for
włocławek foundation was established, with a budget to be used for the financing of local
initiatives. orlen upstream engages in community outreach initiatives in all of its licence areas.
the company supports local sports organisations, educational and social projects, and
participates in pkn orlen’s safety programme by co-financing the purchase of equipment for
local firefighting units. anwil takes part in the same programme by supporting firefighters in its
area of operation.

the orlen – gift from the heart foundation, established in 2001, fulfils the social
responsibility mission of its founder, pkn orlen. the foundation has partnered with more than


                                                          335

350 family group homes which take care of 2,500 children all around poland, is involved in
scholarship programmes, and engages in projects focusing on safety, cultural, and other
initiatives. local communities are important beneficiaries of its activities. under the ‘pkn orlen
charitable giving policy’, orlen group companies may participate in csr activities at the
corporate level through the foundation.

in 2016, the orlen − gift from the heart foundation financed the purchase of modern
equipment for the surgery room of the orthopaedic department at the holy trinity hospital in
płock. it was a high-end illumination system that enables physicians to see more precisely the
area to be operated on and thus contributes to effectiveness and safety of surgical operations.

the foundation also engaged in a project to improve marking of pedestrian crossings near
schools in płock. ten crossings near primary schools were marked with pictograms to increase
drivers’ caution, and t-27 road sings, warning of the proximity of a crossing frequently used by
children, were placed on roadsides. these are the first pedestrian crossings marked this way in
płock. the foundation also co-financed the construction of a walking and cycling route in ostrów
wielkopolski, making it possible to separate pedestrian and bicycle traffic, which significantly
improved safety.

the orlen − gift from the heart foundation continued its cooperation with warsaw
university of technology - płock branch, which received a donation for the purchase of fume
hoods and ancillary equipment. fume hood is a type of a local ventilation device designed to
prevent the release of harmful substances, as well as to ensure protection against fire and
explosion.

in gąbin, the foundation helped to build a modern playground for children on the premises of the
school complex.

under the ‘pkn orlen charitable giving policy’, orlen group companies may participate in csr
activities at the corporate level through the foundation.

anwil is a major patron of local sports, lending support to the anwil włocławek basketball club,
and yacht club anwil. the company has also pursued educational projects addressed to
włocławek’s schools, including regular campaigns such as ‘tree for a bottle’, ‘right in the eyes’
and ‘mr carp restocks the vistula’.

last year, włocławek’s preschoolers and students of elementary schools participated for the 14th
time in the countrywide ‘tree for a bottle’ project, which is coordinated locally by anwil. the
company has been organising the event in włocławek since 2002, the very year it was initiated
by the secretarial office of the responsible care programme. in 2016, 6,958 preschoolers and
students of elementary schools from włocławek collected as many as 603,364 used pet bottles.
thus, włocławek’s youngest residents beat their 2015 result by 40,689 bottles and once again
came in first in poland.

in 2016, anwil also organised the third edition of its ‘right in the eyes’ campaign designed to
promote the wearing of reflective elements among children. as part of the project, the company’s
employees and officers from the municipal police department visited 20 non-public pre-schools in
włocławek and its vicinity, and distributed 860 visibility vests and reflective bands, and discussed
the importance of being visible on the road.


                                                336

care for the environment and environmental education is a fixed element of anwil’s strategy.
the ‘mr carp restocks the vistula’ competition is a joint initiative of the fish promotion
association and anwil, it started in 2015 with the aim of educating children on the importance of
fish to the ecosystem. last year, the final part of the second edition of this project included the
release of 10,000 eels into the vistula river. the event was attended by winners selected from
among the students of 15 schools and pre-schools in włocławek, as well as 16 educational
facilities from six provinces: province of warsaw, province of szczecin, province of kraków,
province of olsztyn, province of wrocław and province of łódź.

the above are only a sample of the social projects carried out by anwil. the anwil for
włocławek foundation plays an essential role in pursuing social objectives as its entire budget is
allocated to supporting local initiatives in education, environmental protection, healthcare,
safety, sports, culture and arts. through the foundation, anwil is able to improve the quality of
life of włocławek’s residents.

for many years anwil, as a leading business in the heavy chemicals sector, has teamed up with
the łódź university of technology and other organisations to popularise the study of chemistry
across all levels of education. key initiatives in 2016 included patronage of the chemical
engineering class at the chemical sciences school complex in włocławek, which welcomed its
first fifteen students in september 2015. the company also sponsored the 63rd chemistry
olympics in the toruń region, one of 13 regions to host the competition, organised by the polish
chemistry association.

orlen upstream and its related companies, fx energy and orlen upstream canada, are also
deeply committed to supporting their stakeholders.

for five years now, orlen upstream has been working towards improving regional safety by co-
financing purchases of equipment for local firefighters. in 2016, assistance was provided to
32 units operating within the area of the company’s field work. orlen upstream was also
involved in educational initiatives addressed to children. one example is a series of lessons on
safety and first-aid for some 1,000 first-year students, entitled ‘smart dragon rises to the task’,
carried out as part of the safety and healthcare week at the orlen group. another campaign
targeting schoolchildren was ‘gym class with the champion’: it reached 3,364 children at
19 schools with its message promoting physical activity and a healthy lifestyle. in may 2016,
orlen upstream joined a volunteering effort which included renovation of a playground of the
community educational centre in kosewo. the company also furnished the facility with furniture
and household appliances. like every year, orlen upstream engaged with local communities by
sponsoring regional sporting and cultural events. some were initiated by the company itself, such
as the ‘fall in love with geology’ picnic, held in spring in świdnik in connection with seismic
research conducted in the area; it was intended to familiarise local residents with the technology
used and nature of work involved.

in 2016, the company also pursued a number of r&d projects, such as gazgeolmod, łupzas,
ires, resdev, ekołupki and ungaslab, carried out under the blue gas programme,
coordinated by the national centre for research and development.

orlen upstream canada was actively involved in community outreach projects. among the
supported projects were sports initiatives combining healthy competition with charity, as well as
grants to local communities. a noteworthy example is last year’s charity campaign organised by


                                                337

orlen upstream canada’s staff in collaboration with united way. their joint activities included
a charity drive and renovating a help centre for the needy, as well as preparation of lunch sets for
the homeless under the care of drop inn center. for its outstanding contribution to the project,
the canadian team received the ‘welcome to united way’ award as the best first-time supporter
of the programme.

orlen południe, independently and through the orlen – gift from the heart foundation, has
implemented a number of projects in education, as well as protection of life and health,
addressed to the local community. in addition, the company was involved in the ‘for eagles’
scholarship programme for its employees’ children, and the ‘stop abstention from gym classes’
campaign. as part of the latter project, over 300 schoolchildren in trzebinia and jedlicz took part
in a professional ‘gym class with the champion’. in this case, the champion was represented by
members of the women’s volleyball team from the orlen league. the participating children also
attended chemical, physical and art workshops, covering various areas that may help develop,
shape and drive their future. they also attended practical classes in first-aid conducted by
paramedics from the malta medical service association (malta służba medyczna).

orlen południe was also engaged in pro-environmental campaigns. for instance, in the jedlicze
municipality it carried out the ‘tree for a bottle’ project organised under the responsible care
programme.the month-long campaign saw 250 preschoolers and over 1,000 students of
elementary schools collect 145,000 pet bottles, a very impressive result attesting to the
resounding success of the initiative. each participating educational facility received tree
seedlings and commemorative diplomas. the winning schools and pre-schools were also given
funds to purchase equipment and organise educational trips. the final of the project, organised
by orlen południe, attracted some 300 children. another recurring event held by orlen
południe is the ‘tree for waste paper’ campaign, which has become a fixture in the programme
of the christmas eve celebrations at the trzebinia market square. as part of the event the first
500 people to bring waste paper receive plantable christmas trees. proceeds from the waste
paper collection were transferred to one of the local elementary schools.

it is also important to highlight the involvement of the orlen południe’s employees in
volunteering initiatives. under the ‘become a santa claus’ helper – make someone’s dreams
come true’ project, they helped fulfill the dreams of 41 children from children’s homes in długie
and miękinia.

iks solino, like other orlen group companies, delivers on its csr commitment through sports
sponsorship, and is partner in charitable activities of the orlen – gift from the heart
foundation. it was one of the businesses participating in the ‘for eagles’ scholarship
programme. the company also engages in volunteering projects. for instance, training for its
management staff was used as an opportunity to help a foster care centre in inowrocław. the
company’s employees also took part in the ‘become a santa claus’ helper – make someone’s
dreams come true’ project.

in its relations with stakeholders, unipetrol adheres to principles of corporate social
responsibility. it lends support to initiatives designed to improve the quality of life in the areas
where it operates and cares for the natural environment. moreover, the company supports and
promotes young chemistry talents. the pillars of unipetrol’s social commitment are education,
volunteering, charity and environmental protection.



                                                 338

unipetrol is a supporter of science, scientific research and education, with a particular focus on
popularising chemistry. it is a long-standing partner of the university of chemistry and
technology of prague. a branch of the university is located within the industrial park in litvinov,
which gives the students an opportunity to cooperate with the unique unicre research centre
operated by the unipetrol group, a one-of-a-kind project in the czech republic. what is more,
unipetrol actively supports the ‘zlatý amos project, which seeks to recognise the best chemistry
teachers in the czech republic.

since 2012, unipetrol employees have been involved in volunteering initiatives for the benefit of
the company’s immediate environment. these involved an annual charity drive as part of the ‘we
make dreams come true’ project, with the proceeds going to local charities. their efforts
complement the company’s charitable activities as unipetrol supports the community of the usti
region on a regular basis. the company’s charity programmes contribute to rebuilding the local
infrastructure, organising cultural events and sporting activities for children and teenagers.

another pillar of unipetrol’s csr agenda is environmental protection. the company is a partner of
the czech fishery union and is actively involved in restocking fish into the bilina river.

the company is a sponsor of sports, including hockey and motor sports. unipetrol also engages in
initiatives addressed to children and young athletes.

suppliers

in 2016, pkn orlen and the anwil group implemented the ‘supplier code of conduct’.

orlen group companies are major partners for all their suppliers, including local ones. for
instance, in 2016 anwil cooperated with 5,251 domestic and 705 foreign suppliers. last year,
the company adopted its ‘supplier code of conduct’, a comprehensive guide governing
cooperation between anwil and its suppliers, which ensures that the company’s trading partners
observe the standards in place at the orlen group and bidders in contract award procedures are
fully aware of the expectations that they are required to meet.

orlen upstream is fully committed to ensuring that any work carried out by or on behalf of the
company is safe for the natural environment. accordingly, it only selects partners operating to
the highest standards in this respect. over 90% of the partnering companies were certified for
compliance with the exacting environmental standards of iso 14000, which attests to their care
for the environment and environmentally-friendly initiatives.

in 2016, operations within the upstream sector (pursued independently or with a partner) were
carried out in a total of 30 licence areas located in 9 provinces of poland. orlen upstream
always seeks to engage local businesses and communities whenever it commences work in
a given area and afterwards, during ongoing operations. in 2016, it contracted 14 companies
operating in its licence areas for various services, from building access roads and investment
project sites, through waste disposal, to hospitality services. furthermore, 3 local residents were
employed for the purposes of reclamation work.

orlen upstream makes an effort to develop this priority for supporting local communities in its
subcontractors. in line with this policy, in 2016 a security company engaged by orlen upstream
employed 3 persons living in the direct vicinity of project sites, and a subcontractor providing
drilling and maintenance services contracted 2 local companies for logistics and social services at

                                                339

the drilling rig.

in late 2015, orlen upstream became the sole shareholder in fx energy, thus gaining full
control over the assets of the us-based company and its subsidiaries. t as a result of the
acquisition, new exploration and production areas were added to the company’s portfolio of
projects in poland. in connection with operations carried out in 2016 by fx energy as a member
of the orlen group, 10 local businesses in joint licence areas were engaged to perform various
work accompanying the projects.

at unipetrol, out of its 4,720 suppliers, as many as 223 come from the usti region.

membership of organisations and trade associations

the orlen group is involved in many organisations as it perceives such activity as an essential
element of its commercial operations in poland and europe.

in addition to pkn orlen, other orlen group companies are also involved in the responsible
care programme. this international initiative of the chemical industry seeks to consistently
introduce improvements related to health, safety and the environment (the so called hse triad),
and openness in communication. the programme has been joined by anwil, iks solino and
unipetrol, and in 2016 also by orlen południe.

the companies’ memberships in organisations and trade associations, as well as their
participation in efforts to develop their respective industrial sectors, are a key element of their
social activity.

for instance, anwil is a member of such organisations as the polish chamber of chemical
industry, fertilizers europe, polish iso 9000 forum, polish chamber of industrial power and
energy consumers, and the polish commercial electrical engineering chamber.

orlen upstream is a member of the polish association of oil and gas industry engineers and
technicians and the energy & geoscience institute. furthermore, the company’s employees also
hold memberships in various trade organisations.

orlen upstream canada is associated in the canadian association of petroleum producers
(capp) and lochend industry producers group of alberta.

orlen południe is an active member in such organisations as the polish national chamber of
biofuels, polish association of oil and gas industry engineers and technicians and the association
of european candle makers. all of those are organisations gathering entities from the respective
segments of the chemical industry.

in 2016, iks solino was involved in the work of the polish salt foundation and the solution mining
research institute.

unipetrol holds memberships of numerous organisations and associations, including the
association of the chemical industry in the czech republic, polish capital club in the czech
republic and sgp standard. furthermore, unipetrol’s representatives sit on the boards of key
trade organisations, including the czech association of oil industry and trade (čappo) and svse,
an association of large energy consumers.



                                                 340

diversity and equal opportunities
the objective of building value-driven organisational
culture which takes into account diversity aspects is
addressed by our hr strategy and csr strategy.

diversity-related matters are governed by the following
corporate documents:
     pkn orlen s.a. work rules,
     pkn orlen s.a. core values and standards of conduct,
     collective bargaining agreement for pkn orlen s.a. employees,
     policy for the management of the potential of orlen group employees for 2013−2017,
     pkn orlen csr strategy (provisions on development and diversity),
     separate internal document governing the implementation of pkn orlen s.a.’s disability
     employment policy,
     separate internal document governing the implementation of pkn orlen s.a.’s employee
     assistance policy,
     separate internal document governing the ‘family-friendly employer’ project.

those documents set out the rules concerning:

     equal treatment and non-discrimination in the workplace,
     diversity,
     cultural difference management,
     employment opportunities for people facing social exclusion or labour market
     marginalisation,
     support for initiatives promoting equal treatment in the workplace,
     remuneration and bonus policy,
     employment and remuneration standards for inpatriates and expatriates,
     workplace accommodations for the disabled, breastfeeding employees, etc.,
     employee assistance,
     work-life balance programmes.

implementation of pkn orlen’s diversity policy also takes the form of:

     open diversity management trainings and workshops for the employees,
     employee volunteering programmes,
     efforts to embed diversity into hr processes and tools (recruitment, trainings,
     development, compensation) and organisational culture,
     workshops on cultural differences addressed to expatriates,
     employee engagement and job satisfaction surveys,
     human capital committee and ethics officer, appointed to coordinate anti-discrimination,
     anti-harassment and diversity management efforts.

the regulations and solutions listed above have been or are being implemented at other orlen
group companies as well.


                                                341

the management board and the supervisory board of the parent pkn orlen include members
qualified in law, economics, chemistry and energy, with diverse work experience.

as at december 31st 2016, the company’s management board consisted of six men and the
supervisory board consisted of two women and five men.




the diagram below presents members of the management and supervisory boards of the orlen
group companies by sex and age.

proportion of women and men among members of management and supervisory boards of the
orlen group companies:




                                           342

343

responsible employer




modern management culture and friendly working environment are among pkn
orlen’s key competitive advantages. we promote solutions that facilitate
maintaining a good work-life balance. our personal development initiatives,
employee benefits, a wide range of training courses, and knowledge sharing
opportunities are highly rated not only by employees themselves, but also by
independent expert panels, which invariably distinguish pkn orlen as poland’s
leading employer.

                                                              mirosław kochalski,
                             vice president of corporate governance, pkn orlen




workforce
the number of orlen group employees went down by 202 in 2016 and was 19,730 at the end of
the year. the reduction followed mainly from the sale of orlen transport and the reorganisation


                                              344

at orlen oil and orlen administracja. at the same time, the headcount in the power generation
segment of pkn orlen, the orlen upstream group, and the maintenance units of orlen
serwis, orlen eko and centrum serwisowe was increased as a result of business growth. in
2016, the unipetrol group acquired spolana, an anwil group company. the average annual
headcount at the orlen group was 19,749 in 2016, down by 244 year on year.

the orlen group headcount figure represents employees working under employment contracts.
in rare cases, orlen group companies may also hire staff under civil law contracts. there are no
major seasonal headcount variations at the orlen group.

number of employees as of the end of 2016 and 2015 at the orlen group companies:




                                              345

346

347

348

    return to work and turnover rates after parental leave, by gender (pkn
                                   orlen)



 the total number of employees entitled to parental leave is not known – employees         -
 are not obliged to notify the company about such entitlements


 total number of employees that took parental leave in 2016                               40


 - induding women                                                                         40


 total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ending in 2016       30


 - induding women                                                                         30


 total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave and who were         41
 still employed twelve months after their return to work – the analysed period was
 2015 (twelve months of service until december 31st 2016)


 - induding women                                                                         41


 percentage of employees who returned to work after parental leave                       100%


 - turnover rate of employees who took parental leave                                    100%




remuneration policy
the objectives of pkn orlen’s remuneration policy and its application in practice guarantees
equal pay to all employees, regardless of their gender.

the principles of remuneration at pkn orlen are defined in the collective bargaining agreement.
the main components of remuneration are base pay, determined with through the use of the pay
grade table and the base pay table, and bonus. employees are rewarded based on monthly,
quarterly, quarterly/annual or annual bonus systems, depending on what job they do.
additionally, employees are entitled to an extra annual bonus payable with the achievement of
the solidarity objective, there are also a number of allowances, such as a shift-work allowance,
chemical emergency service allowance, or expat allowance. outstanding achievements may be
rewarded with resources from the employee reward fund. the rules of bonus payments laid
down in the collective bargaining agreement were amended as of january 2016.



                                              349

the average gross monthly remuneration at the orlen group was pln 6,960 in 2016.

in 2016, an agreement on pay rates was signed between pkn orlen and the trade unions. it
provided for an obligatory rise in base pay by pln 200 for each employee, a discretionary rise of
pln 100 per employee, and two one-off bonuses of pln 1,500 each.

there were no collective redundancies in 2016.

in 2016, anwil and orlen laboratorium were involved in labour disputes, which were concluded
with the signing of agreements with the trade unions.


    ratio of standard entry level wage at pkn orlen to local minimum wage at the
                                    main locations



 men                                                                                       133%


 women                                                                                     160%




                                               350

  men’s and women’s pay by position as a percentage of the average base pay in
                             2016 at pkn orlen



                                       women                      men


total                                   99.8%                    100.1%


clerk                                       56%                    57%


production process operator                  -                     67%


account manager                             69%                    70%


specialist                                  92%                    93%


sales representative                        97%                   102%


other                                       84%                    87%


production process foreperson            121%                     112%


production support engineer                 80%                    94%


sales manager                            113%                     112%


manager                                  157%                     159%


director                                 382%                     382%




                                      351

     ratio of basic remuneration for men to remuneration for women by employee
                                   category in 2016



 clerk                                                                                 102%


 production process operator                                                               -


 account manager                                                                       101%


 specialist                                                                            101%


 sales representative                                                                  105%


 other                                                                                 104%


 production process foreperson                                                          93%


 production support engineer                                                               -


 sales manager                                                                          99%


 manager                                                                               101%


 director                                                                              100%



all pkn orlen employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. collective
bargaining agreements have also been concluded by several other companies of the orlen
group.

minimum time to notify employees of planned
restructuring
pursuant to the pkn orlen collective bargaining agreement and the agreement on the terms of
collaboration with social partners in carrying out restructuring processes at polski koncern
naftowy orlen s.a. and on employee rights with respect to these processes, concluded on
march 27th 2006 in płock, the trade unions represented at pkn orlen are to be informed of any


                                             352

planned restructuring processes in advance, a specified number of days prior to such processes
taking place. depending on the process, this notification period may be:

      1. 45 days (approximately seven weeks) – for any of the following restructuring processes:
       a. establishment of a new entity to take over a part of pkn orlen’s operations or pkn
      orlen as an employer within the meaning
          of art. 231 of the labour code,
       b. transfer to another entity of a part of pkn orlen’s operations or pkn orlen as an
      employer within the meaning of art. 231
          of the labour code;

      2. 35 days (five weeks) – for restructuring processes resulting in mass redundancies within
      the meaning of the act on special rules governing termination of employment for reasons
      not attributable to employees of march 13th 2003 (the „act on special termination
      rules”);

      3. 20 days (four weeks) – for less extensive restructuring processes, for which pkn orlen
      s.a. plans individual redundancies on grounds specified in the act on special termination
      rules (either through employment contract termination or by mutual agreement, or
      involving amendment to working conditions or terms of remuneration through a notice of
      termination amending the contract of employment), where such terminations affect
      between 15 and 29 employees in a 30 day period; (approximately four weeks);

      4. 7 days (one week) – for reorganisation of an organisational unit or task team, where pkn
      orlen s.a. plans individual redundancies on grounds specified in the act on special
      termination rules (either through employment contract termination or by mutual
      agreement), where such redundancies affect no more than 14 employees in a 30 day
      period (approximately four weeks).

the notification periods are longer than those specified in polish law (for processes considered in
items 1 and 2). although not legally bound to do so, we provide trade unions with information on
less extensive restructuring processes (item 3) and reorganisation processes (item 4), which
shows that the company collaborates with its social partners in a transparent manner and in
accordance with the principles of social dialogue.

health and safety issues covered in formal agreements
with trade unions
we take care to maintain a transparent social dialogue within the orlen group. the notification
periods for individual processes are generally the same as those defined in generally applicable
laws, but in some cases they are even more favourable.

hr programmes
policy for the management of human resources
in 2016, work continued on building employee engagement at the orlen group. at
16 companies, an employee opinion survey and an evaluation of employee needs were carried
out and initiatives were developed and launched to improve employee satisfaction and
engagement. the most important of the initiatives included new communication channels for


                                                353

staff (intranet, newsletters, information boards, corporate press, hr inspirations), communicating
employee achievements, employee volunteering programmes (good energy factory) and the
promotion of safety culture. additionally, pay solutions consistent with the standards applied at
the orlen group were agreed and adopted at two companies, and work rules aligned with the
orlen group standards were introduced at three companies in 2016.

recruitment policy
in 2016, the orlen group continued its recruitment policy focusing on attracting highly qualified
experts whose knowledge and skills, together with the experience and professionalism of the
existing staff, will ensure the continuity and highest quality of the group’s business and
technological processes.

in implementing its recruitment policy, the company placed a focus on attracting people whose
values and attitudes are convergent with pkn orlen’s ethical values and codes of conduct, in
order to build and strengthen a corporate culture based on the code of ethics as a set of clear
principles and standards of behaviour.

steps were taken to source specialists and experts and to engage with academic communities to
encourage students and graduates to work with the orlen group. pkn orlen participated in job
fairs at universities of technology and in other inter university events of this type and helped
students and graduates to gain hands-on job experience by organising internships and work
placement programmes. we also carried out educational projects in the form of student
workshops.

the adaptation programme, which is an induction programme allowing new employees to
familiarise themselves with orlen group operations, organisational culture, values and
standards of conduct, was continued. besides an introductory meeting and workshops with
experts, employees participating in the adaptation programme took part in an e-learning session
focusing on pkn orlen values and codes of conduct and were assisted by dedicated staff
throughout the duration of the programme.

professional development and training
development

employees’ professional development and knowledge sharing were supported with various
initiatives facilitating employees’ participation in interdisciplinary projects, further engagement in
mobility, self-improvement, and teamwork in the implementation of best practices and uniform
standards.
in 2016, pkn orlen’s activities in professional development and training that support staff
continuity were focused both on enhancing employee qualifications to meet business goals and
on shaping the desired attitudes to supporting the implementation of our strategy and increasing
employee engagement. like in 2015, the leading themes in 2016 were: the management of
diversity, including that of generational diversity, engagement and innovation. to that end,
we used a variety of communication methods, including lectures, workshops, discussion panels,
inspirational meetings, peer mentoring, e-learning knowledge pills and gamification, depending
on the needs of specific employee groups.

as a part of our leadership development effort, we continued the ‘leader zone’ programme –


                                                 354

a multi-module training and development programme carried out in the form of regular
workshops for managers designed to improve their skills in team management, the development
of team potential, enhancement of team engagement and innovativeness, as well as enhancing
the integrity of managers. managers could also participate in training sessions designed to
improve team management based on partnership relations, effective communication, difficult
management situations and mindfulness.

under the ‘vector’ programme, in 2016, the company continued to offer themed lectures for all
employees. their aim was to broaden the participants’ understanding of the latest trends in the
industry, but most of all they were meant to inspire employees to pursue their individual
development targets. lectures revolved around themes such as the stimulation of creativity and
innovation in one’s area of operation, personal effectiveness and self-motivation, diversity
management and stress management. the company also continued development projects
dedicated to female employees in the form of discussion panels on challenging gender
stereotypes and on effective communication. additionally, women who returned to work after
maternity leave and who wanted to combine work with care for children were offered training in
personal effectiveness and growth. as part of the ‘toolbox’ (‘narzędziownik’) programme, the
company offered workshops based on the gamification concept. the proposed activities
supported the development of employee competence in ethics, business innovation, effective
communication in a diversified team, cooperation and decision making. moreover, pkn orlen
had its teams in global management challenge, a development programme for employees
standing out due to their attitudes and achievements. its main objective was to master business
skills using sophisticated online team games.

to support the implementation of its strategy, in 2016 the company continued with the ‘orlen
talent academy’, a programme dedicated to n-1 level managers at selected orlen group
companies and to n-2 level managers at pkn orlen. projects executed under the programme
helped employees of the orlen group to broaden their management skills, improve mobility,
and share their knowledge and experience.

‘ex-change’, a mentoring programme, was continued in 2016 to further develop the ideas of peer
mentoring based on knowledge sharing within the organisation. employees who joined the
programme took part in workshops aimed at developing skills necessary to act as a peer mentor.
the ultimate objective of the programme is to establish a base of in-house mentors of various
specialisations, develop their competence to support effective knowledge sharing, and unlock
their potential in various forms of development initiatives within the organisation, e.g. in-house
training.

in 2016 pkn orlen employees could undergo specialist training and attend postgraduate
courses, mba courses, industry conferences and seminars in poland and abroad. they also
continued to learn foreign languages as part of the pkn orlen language academy and summer
english courses.

in order to help its employees to master safer driving techniques, learn how to drive in difficult
road conditions and react in emergencies, orlen launched the safe driving academy in 2016.
moreover, with a view to supporting its safety culture, the company provided training in health
and safety at work, fire protection, chemical emergency services and first aid. our employees
also participated in specialist training in the inspection of technical equipment in refineries and



                                                 355

petrochemical plants.

training and development activities were carried out not only in the form of on-site programmes,
but also through our e-learning platform.

employees subject to restructuring programmes were offered the training package, which is
a programme of training in job search techniques, entrepreneurship, and specific fields selected
by the employee.

training
in 2016, pkn orlen trained more than 4.5 thousand employees, most of whom attended more
than one training programme. overall, more than 13 thousand training units were completed in
2016, with the average of 40 hours of training per employee.

in 2016, average hours of training per year (per pkn orlen employee, by gender and employee
category) were as follows:




at other key orlen group companies, the figures were as follows:




                                               356

                                                     average          average
                                   average           number           number            average
                                   number               of               of             number            average
                                      of             training         training             of            number of
                                   training         hours per        hours per          training          training
                                  hours per           female            male           hours per         hours per
           company                employee          employee         employee          manager          non-manager



     grupa orlen*                     22,1             19,7              22,2             37,2                20,0



computation formula:
- hours of training per employee on average = total hours of training done by employees/total number of employees
- hours of training per female employee on average = total hours of training done by female employees/total number of
female employees
- hours of training per male employee on average = total hours of training done by male employees/total number of male
employees
- hours of training per manager on average= total hours of training done by managers/total number of managers
- hours of training per non-manager on average = total hours of training done by non-managers/total number of non-
managers
*
    ‘hours of training per employee on average’, ‘hours of training per manager on average’ and ‘hours of training per non-
manager on average’ for the following companies: orlen paliwa, orlen projekt, iks solino, petrolot, orlen eko, orlen
cuk, orlen lietuva, orlen serwis, orlen centrum serwisowe, anwil, orlen asfalt, płocki park przemysłowo-
technologiczny, orlen oil, orlen upstream, orlen koltrans, orlen południe, orlen deutschland, orlen
laboratorium, orlen budonaft, unipetrol group
*
    ‘hours of training per female employee on average’ and ‘hours of training per male employee on average’ for the same
companies as above except orlen serwis

student internships and work placement programmes

pkn orlen shows concern for the professional development of not only its own employees, but
also young people − students, university graduates and school leavers, by providing them with
an opportunity to gain their first professional experience as interns and on work placement
programmes.

for years, pkn orlen has been organising internships as a partner of schools and universities,
and has been involved in nationwide and international projects. in 2016, the company organised:

          paid 6-month internships under the ‘headed for orlen’ internship programme.
          paid internships under the ‘#energy for the future’ programme run together with two
          energy companies − pge and pgnig − under the auspices of the ministry of energy (12-
          month internships on a rotational basis from october 2016 to september 2017).
          paid work placements under the ‘leopolis for future’ programme, designed to foster
          international cooperation and enable ukrainian students to learn best european working
          practices in various areas of business and the economy.
          group internships organised as part of pkn orlen’s partnership with high schools and
          universities.

                                                              357

more than 200 people participated in the internships and programmes.

in addition, the following educational and informational projects were targeted at students and
school pupils in 2016:

      orlen knowledge day – a series of meetings at universities held to present the orlen
      group’s business and innovative projects
      pkn orlen at job fairs: engineer job fair in warsaw, job fair in płock, academic job fair in
      łódź, absolvent talent days
      participation in the global dignity day − meetings of the ethics officer with students of
      junior high school no. 6 and school education centre (zespół szkół centrum edukacji) in
      płock
      participation in the nationwide case week project, during which representatives of the
      energy, it and logistics areas prepared and held meetings and case study sessions for the
      students of warsaw universities
      partnership between the orlen group companies and technical secondary schools to
      develop school curricula to meet recruitment needs of the orlen group

development of hr functions

hr staff supported the consolidation, restructuring and divestment processes carried out at the
orlen group in 2016. as part of the work, the hr and payroll solutions and it systems were
adjusted to correctly and effectively support business processes. 20 companies of the orlen
group have sap hr and self-service systems and at 18 companies callcenter and helpdesk
kadrowy processing systems were implemented. competence centres and hr business partners
supported the group companies in developing new solutions for the remuneration and bonus
systems.

social dialogue and employee benefits

the orlen group believes in social dialogue based on independence of the parties, legal
compliance, as well as trust, mutual willingness to compromise, and observance of the rules. the
principles of social dialogue are founded on generally applicable laws and internal regulations,
including the collective bargaining agreement and separate detailed agreements, which
facilitates development of constructive and lasting solutions in partnership with employee
representatives.

the orlen group offers employee benefits, which include co-financing of employee holidays or
sanatorium treatment, childcare, holidays for children and teenagers, and school starter kits.
christmas gifts for employees’ children have already become a tradition across the group. the
employer provides financial support for families with low incomes. our employees may also apply
for the co-financing of sports and recreational activities, cultural and educational activities, or
physical therapy treatments, as well as non-repayable allowances and repayable housing loans.
pkn orlen offers a uniform employee benefits package to employees of all orlen group
companies participating in the joint social benefits programme. group companies covered by pkn
orlen’s joint social benefits programme (as at april 1st 2017): basell orlen polyolefins,
centrum edukacji, orlen administracja, orlen asfalt, orlen centrum serwisowe, orlen eko,
orlen koltrans, orlen centrum usług korporacyjnych, orlen laboratorium, orlen ochrona,
orlen paliwa, orlen projekt, orlen upstream, orlen serwis, płocki park przemysłowo-


                                                358

technologiczny (the płock industry and technology park), and fundacja orlen - dar serca
(orlen − gift from the heart foundation). other companies have their own employee benefit
programmes in place.

the additional benefits policy applies equally to all employees, regardless of the type of their
employment contract (for a fixed or indefinite period), their working time (full-time or part-time)
or location. all personnel employed under employment contracts, whether full-time or part-time,
are entitled to benefits from the pkn orlen social benefits funds. furthermore, pkn orlen’s
employees participate in the employee pension plan (known as the third pillar). starting from
2016, pkn orlen also covers part of the cost of insurance premiums for its employees. the plan
covers all employees working under employment contracts who have worked at the company for
at least three months, regardless of the type of contract.

benefits are guaranteed to former employees (old age pensioners, disability pensioners, persons
who opted for voluntary redundancy) of pkn orlen and the group companies covered by the
joint social benefits programme:

      co-financing of employee holidays or sanatorium treatment.
      subsidies on holidays for children and teenagers.
      co-financing of school starter kits.
      christmas gifts for children.
      non-repayable allowances.
      housing loans.

in addition:

      christmas vouchers for low-income employees.
      birthday cash benefits for employees aged 70+ (paid every five years) and 90+ (paid every
      year).
      meetings with former employees in senior citizens clubs across poland.

all orlen group employees receive the same benefits regardless of their location, job, or type of
employment contract. insurance coverage or other benefits may differ depending on the
employer. group insurance is offered to all pkn orlen employees who have declared their
intention to participate. employees have several options to choose from.

group insurance is also available at other group companies, but each company makes decisions
in this respect on a discretionary basis.

healthcare

the company also provides extensive preventive medical care going beyond the scope of
occupational medicine. medical services and other preventive healthcare programmes were
offered in cooperation with centrum medyczne medica sp. z o.o. of płock and the military institute
of medicine of warsaw. in 2016, workplace preventive examinations were carried out under the
‘prevention close at hand’ (‘profilaktyka na wyciagnięcie ręki’) project.

family-friendly employer

as a company implementing modern-day solutions aimed at maintaining the balance between

                                                359

work and family life, pkn orlen carried out the ‘family-friendly employer’ project, offering such
benefits as an additional two days off to care for a child under three years old, a nursery school
for the children of orlen group employees, one additional hour for breastfeeding, medical care
during pregnancy, baby feeding rooms, gifts for newborn children of our employees, and sending
company updates to employees on parental/childcare leave.




                                               360

safety of employees and contractors




occupational health and safety and process safety are
priority areas in our strategy. in 2016, thanks to the high
motivation and commitment of the entire team,
we achieved a very good total recordable rate, proving
that pkn orlen is a safe place for both employees and
contractors. we also seek to develop the orlen group’s
production assets in a sustainable manner, with due
regard to the natural environment and local communities.

                                           piotr chełmiński
     member of the management board, development and
                                          power generation
                                            (to 06/30/2017)




safety is one of the orlen group’s priorities, on a par
with those of value creation and building of solid
financial foundations. our safety policy is put in action
by integrating all aspects, standards, best practices,
and new knowledge and technology advances in the
field of workplace safety into the operations of the
orlen group.
this priority follows from our business philosophy where people are our most valuable asset and
must be provided with safe working conditions. this is an ethical approach to the protection of
human life and health, which makes it imperative that whatever needs to be done in given
circumstances to prevent hazards, industrial accidents, fire and other disasters, is actually done.

safety and the management system


                                                361

the safety management system operated by the orlen group encompasses not only the group
employees but also the staff of our contractors. the system focuses on two main directions. the
first is to ensure the highest standards of work safety, including to implement best practice and
integrate the latest knowledge and technology advances into the group’s operations. the second
is to put a strong focus on building the awareness of safe work procedures and on creating
proactive attitudes among our employees and contractors. measures to further develop and
improve the orlen group’s safety management system are provided for in the ohs strategy.
implementation of the strategy objectives helps to build a common safety standard across the
orlen group and fulfil each company’s individual safety needs in the context of their business
and its specific needs.

the safety management system of the orlen group is monitored on an ongoing basis to identify
any potential areas for improvement. the group companies operate ohs management systems
supervised by certification bodies accredited by the polish centre for accreditation (polish
companies only). certification audits include reviews of the companies’ compliance with legal
requirements and other applicable regulations. the group also holds at its subsidiaries regular
internal audits as well as coordination and consultancy visits devoted to safety matters. findings
and observations serve as basis for formulating and implementing correction and refinement
plans, workplace health and safety improvement plans, and individual ohs strategy targets.

to meet the needs of the orlen group’s constantly evolving occupational safety area, a new
ohs management concept is planned for implementation in 2017−2021. it will be based on
building and developing the orlen group’s uniform safety standards, while enhancing the
excellence in operations and in preventive measures related to personal and process safety.
according to the new concept, an important element of the orlen group’s safety management
system is building a safety culture in which employees identify with the group’s work safety
standards and take responsibility for their own and their colleagues’ safety.




                                               362

the orlen group’s safety management structure as of 2017:




we also continued our best practices in 2016, including the ‘report a safety hazard’ initiative,
the ohs incentive programme, and the ‘safety first’ project, which are designed to enhance ohs
awareness among our and our contractors’ employees. safety culture was also promoted by
organising competitions for the orlen group employees, such as the fourth edition of ‘good ohs
practice’ or the second edition of the ‘millions of accident-free man-hours’ competition.

the measures taken to reinforce accident-free safety culture are based on education and
motivation of employees and subcontractors as well as on promoting safe behaviours, and their
goal is to instil a sense of shared responsibility for their own safety and the safety of others, both
at work and elsewhere. those measures include dissemination of knowledge on occupational
safety, promoting a healthy lifestyle and work-life balance. one of the initiatives carried out at
the orlen group in the past five years is the occupational health and safety week. it features
activities promoting a healthy lifestyle and balanced diet, such as first aid demonstrations,
meetings with dietitians, medical information and relax areas, educational activities as well as
games and competitions. the event brings together not only orlen group employees, but also
their families and the group’s contractors. furthermore, the ‘safe driver. safe passenger’
campaign was also organised last year for the customers at pkn orlen service stations.

the orlen group’s ambition is to drive down the number of accidents at work involving its
employees and contractors, fires and industrial emergencies to zero. this poses a challenge for
pkn orlen in the area of occupational safety, with the need to develop and implement a uniform
safety standard across the group. to that end, the orlen group must ensure on-going
identification and dissemination of best practices, as well as experience sharing across the
orlen group, and build on the lessons learned by other oil and gas companies with global
footprint.


                                                 363

because we adhere to the principle that „contractor safety is as important to us as the safety of
our own employees”, sharing best practices also with contractors is one of the cornerstones of
pkn orlen’s ohs management model.

communication of near misses, accidents and emergencies across the group is based on ‘safety
alerts’. in the case of emergencies, ‘lesson learned’ actions are organised based on checklists
designed to identify preventive measures in different orlen group locations.

objectives and challenges expected in the years to
come
the orlen group’s ohs strategy for 2017−2021 assumes the delivery of strategic objectives in
four key areas:

      management and leadership,

      personal safety,

      process safety,

      commitment and responsibility.


the overriding objective of the pkn orlen’s ohs strategy for 2017−2021 is the implementation
of safety standards at orlen group companies. their aim is to achieve uniform requirements in
the area of ​corporate security. the requirements were established upon the identification,
analysis and selection of best initiatives and good practices implemented by the orlen group
production companies and by global oil and gas leaders.

invariably, the orlen group’s ambition is to reduce the number of accidents at work involving its
employees and contractors, fires and emergencies. the main challenge faced by pkn orlen is to
achieve the target work safety culture in which employees and contractors are fully aware of
their responsibility for occupational safety, always bearing in mind their own safety and the
safety of others. to that end, pkn orlen will need to attain the highest occupational safety
management standard - ‘i protect others, not just myself’.

the measures to be taken under the orlen group’s ohs strategy for 2017−2021 are meant to
achieve synergies which will raise safety awareness across the group and allow pkn orlen to
remain one of the occupational safety leaders in the industry.




                                               364

ohs commissions
                                                                                           percentage of
                                                                     percentage of          employees
                                                                     orlen group             that have
                                                                       companies               their
                                                                      that appoint        representation
                                                                          ohs                 on ohs
                                                                                  1)                   2)
     year                                                            commissions           commissions



     2015                                                                  100%                 100%



     2016                                                                  100%                 100%



1)
     (number of orlen group companies that appoint ohs commissions/ number of companies which are required to
appoint ohs commissions for a given year)*100%
2)
     (number of employees at companies that appoint ohs commissions/ number of employees at companies which are
required to appoint ohs commissions for a given year)*100%

key issues addressed by the ohs commissions were as follows:

      1. implementing changes in the work organisation system and work station equipment,
         implementing new technological processes and chemical substances which can pose
         a threat to the employees’ life or health;

      2. analysing the findings of occupational risk assessments;

      3. accepting standards for providing the employees with personal protection equipment,
         working clothes and footwear, and personal care products;

      4. making periodic assessments of the ohs status;

      5. formulating conclusions and accepting ohs improvement plans, involvement in their
         implementation;

      6. assessing the implementation of the working conditions improvement programme,
         including measures designed to prevent accidents at work and occupational diseases, and
         in particular the ohs improvement plans;

      7. holding consultations in connection with selecting employees to be responsible for
         administering first aid and performing specific activities related to fire protection and
         employee evacuation;

      8. formulating conclusions concerning laws of general application and internal regulations
         relating to social issues and occupational health and safety (employee meals, work


                                                       365

         performed in special conditions, etc.);

      9. discussing and analysing accident rate and occupational disease incidence statistics;

     10. assessing the implementation of post-inspection recommendations from institutions
         inspecting particular issues.


ohs issues are provided for in the applicable internal regulations of orlen group companies:

         the company’s collective bargaining agreement, drafted and registered by the regional
         inspector of the national labour inspectorate in warsaw, in accordance with the provisions
         of part xi of the polish labour code and the minister of labour and social policy’s
         regulation on the procedure to be followed in the case of registration of collective
         bargaining agreements, keeping the register of collective bargaining agreements and
         registration files, as well as forms of registration clauses and registration cards and/or

         work rules established in accordance with the provisions of section iv of the polish labour
         law.


they concern the organization of safe and hygienic working conditions.

key ohs indicators
under the orlen group’s safety policy, measures are implemented in all areas of the group
companies’ operation to steadily reduce the accident rate. statistical analysis of the trr rate
among employees3) and the number of accidents at work involving employees4) of the orlen
group reported in the last six years shows that their levels have been more or less flat over the
last three years, after a series of major declines in 2014. in other words, pkn orlen’s accident
rate is now flattening out after being significantly reduced compared with previous years.

trr for orlen group employees3) in 2009−2016




3)
 trr (total recordable rate) = (number of recordable injuries sustained by the orlen group employees in a given year
x 1,000,000)/number of hours worked by the orlen group employees in the year



                                                        366

number of accidents at work involving orlen group employees4) in 2011−2016




4)
     number of accidents at work involving orlen group employees is the number of accidents acknowledged by the
employer and being the direct cause of the injured employee’s taking sick leave

one of the keystones of the orlen group’s safety management system is the occupational
health and safety area, which covers also the group’s contractors. a number of initiatives have
been undertaken to upgrade the safety culture of the contractors performing work for the group
companies and on their premises. these include regular safety inspections of the contractors to
verify compliance with the uniform group-wide standard. in addition, proactive initiatives are
rolled out in order to raise occupational safety awareness and encourage proactive attitudes
among the contractors’ personnel7). as a result, the number of accidents at work involving
contractors stayed more or less unchanged over the past three years, and the combined trr
rate5) at the orlen group came close to that reported for 2015.

combined trr5) for employees and contractors of the orlen group in 2015−2016




5)
     combined trr = number of recordable injuries of the orlen group employees and employees of external contractors
performing work for and on the premises owned or leased by orlen group companies in a given period *


                                                           367

1,000,000/number of man-hours worked during that period



total number of accidents at work involving orlen group employees and contractors6) in
2014−2016




*
 2014: 40 accidents involving employees and 30 accidents involving contractors
2015: 44 accidents involving employees and 28 accidents involving contractors
2016: 45 accidents involving employees and 29 accidents involving contractors
6)
    total number of accidents at work involving orlen group employees and contractors is the number of accidents at work
suffered by employees of the orlen group and of external contractors, acknowledged by the employer and being the
direct cause of the injured employee’s taking sick leave


types of accidents at work involving orlen group employees4): 2016


                  number of accidents at work involving orlen group employees4)



     year                                             total                       fatal                        minor



     2016                                                  45                         0                            44




types of accidents at work involving orlen group contractors7): 2016




                                                                368

             number of accidents at work involving contractors of the orlen group7)



     year                                             total                       fatal                        minor



     2016                                               29                            0                            27



7)
 number of accidents at work involving contractors is the number of acknowledged accidents at work involving
employees of external contractors performing work for and on the premises owned or leased by a company of the orlen
group and being the direct cause of the injured employee’s taking sick leave. employees of pkn orlen service stations
are also defined as contractors

among workers reported occupational accidents in 2016, in 98% of cases workers suffered minor
injuries. on the other hand, 93% of contractors accidents at work were light cases.

number of days lost due to post-accident absenteeism8) of employees 4)at the orlen group in
2016




8)
     number of days lost due to post-accident absenteeism is the number of days on which the employee is on a sick leave
as a result of an accident at work acknowledged by the employer


severity indicator 9) for workplace accidents involving orlen group employees in 2016:


                                                              369

9)
     severity rate is the quotient of the number of days lost due to post-accident absenteeism of orlen group employees
and the number of accidents at work involving orlen group employees, acknowledged by the employer and resulting in
the employee’s taking sick leave.
health and safety of contractors’ employees is a strategic priority for the company. in order to continuously enhance the
safety of our contractors, we have taken a consistent, long-term approach to raising their awareness of the importance of
proper risk assessment, potential hazards, risk mitigation methods, ohs rules and procedures, proper use of protective
systems and equipment, and the need to report potentially dangerous situations. besides analysing work accidents
suffered by contractors, the orlen group also studies data on sick leaves resulting from work accidents occurring in
connection with works carried out by contractors on the premises of group companies. there is no applicable law or
regulation under which the requested information could be disclosed to the public.


number of occupational disease cases10) involving grupa orlen employees in 2015–2016




                                                            370

*
     pkn orlen (1), orlen lietuva (3), paramo (1), anwil (1)
**
     orlen lietuva (6)
10)
      number of acknowledged occupational disease cases is the number of decisions issued by the state sanitary inspector
to confirm recognition of an occupational disease of a current or former employee of an orlen group company

those employees were exposed to harmful agents in the workplace during the years when their
work conditions were not under the control of orlen group companies.


                      number of occupational disease cases10) in each employee group



     employee groups at the orlen group in which occupational diseases have                                2015         2016
     been recognised


     office and administrative staff                                                                           0          0


     higher-rank and mid-level technical staff                                                                 0          0


     operators of process units and equipment                                                                  2          4


     repair and maintenance employees                                                                          3          2


     transport and storage employees                                                                           1          0



     total                                                                                                     6          6



    10)
          the number of recognized occupational diseases is determined by the number of decisions issued by the state
sanitary inspector for occupational diseases in employees who work or work in orlen group companies
employee groups exposed to a high risk of occupational diseases

the orlen group constantly monitors and identifies factors that may cause occupational
diseases among employees. work environment surveys are performed on a regular basis and
their results are analysed to assess the risk of potential impact on the health of the group’s
employees. with respect to all factors identified for jobs with a high risk of occupational disease,
systemic preventive measures have been implemented in the form of technical and
organisational solutions offering personal and collective protection. the use of these solutions
eliminates the risk of occupational diseases among employees as a result of harmful factors in
the work environment.




                                                                371

number of process safety events, by business activity
in 2016, the number of fires reported at the orlen group stayed largely unchanged compared
with 2015. out of all fires reported in 2016, 77% (20 fires) were related to technological
processes, and four required action by the state fire service.

number of fires11) at the orlen group in 2015−2016




                                    number of fires11) at the orlen group



      year        total number of fires                of which: relating to        of which: requiring action by
                                                   technological processes                 the state fire service


      2015                             25                                   18                                      6



      2016                             26                                   20                                      4



11)
      number of process-related fires at the orlen group companies, affecting only the premises owned or leased by them,
with the exception of service station areas


process safety and process safety management system
process safety is a state where the organisational, operating and technical conditions in place
ensure the safety of industrial processes and effectively prevent any substance and/or energy
release into the environment.



                                                            372

rising to strategic challenges of modern energy conglomerates and domestic requirements for
the prevention of serious industrial accidents, continuous improvement of the efficiency and
effectiveness of the applied prevention measures, and mitigation of potential impacts of
industrial accidents requires that effective and systematic management of process safety be put
in place in keeping with the highest standards set out in the osha 1910 regulations. some of the
tasks the system is expected to deliver is to raise safety awareness, analyse and manage risks,
and use internal experiences and lessons learned from past events occurring around the world.
presented below are the key elements of pkn orlen’s process safety management system that
is subject to continuous improvement:

  1. safety leadership − invariably the key aspect of building a safety management system
     and a safety culture − strong, forward-looking leadership and the prominent role of
     qualified teams and management personnel influencing attitudes and everyday operating
     activities.

  2. roles and responsibilities − defining emergency roles and responsibilities at all levels
     of the organisation and measures taken to get across the need for continuous improvement
     and prevention.

  3. training − developing training programmes and providing training to employees
     responsible for proactive and preventive measures, as well as emergency response training
     at all levels of the organisation and to other employees on site, including subcontractors.

  4. mechanisms − deployment of mechanisms enabling systematic analysis of the risk of
     a serious industrial accident and probability of its occurrence, and therefore enabling its
     avoidance.

  5. instructions and procedures − defining instructions for safe operation of process
     units using hazardous substances during normal operation, as well as instructions on
     maintenance, shutdowns, and industrial process adjustments.

  6. monitoring and oversight − recognising the need to apply the best available practices
     to monitor the operation of process units containing hazardous substances so that
     corrective measures can be implemented should any deviation from normal operation
     occur, including due to normal wear and tear or corrosion.

  7. analysis − regular assessment of validity and effectiveness of the process safety
     management system in place and the accident prevention programme as a principal
     document and the key intermediate task helping to achieve the overriding goal of proactive
     accident prevention, with the method of documentation and approval defined, and regular
     assessment of internal operating emergency response plans that are mandatory for upper-
     tier and lower-tier establishments.

  8. experience − lessons learned from past emergencies occurring at the orlen group and
     globally, including mechanisms supporting the need and requirement to learn from past
     events.


upper-tier and lower-tier plants of the orlen group



                                              373

the infographic above illustrates the broad scope of the process safety function. at the orlen
group as many as 27 establishments (facilities) are classified as upper-tier, and a number almost
half of that are lower-tier establishments, as per the classification framework under the seveso iii
directive applicable across europe and implemented into national law by all eu member states in
2015. it should be noted that both types of establishments face the challenge of implementing an
up-to-date and effective process safety management system as an organised method for
managing safety, encompassing all vital safety components presented above.

to illustrate the current state of process safety in production companies of the orlen group,
we use various process safety leading and lagging metrics in accordance with the api754
standards, which are monitored and measured to help achieve the overarching goal of process
safety management, which is to prevent or minimise the risk of major accident hazards. these
metrics also serve as a benchmark we use to compare our performance against the best in our
industry in pursuit of process excellence.

tier 1 and tier 2 events

tier 1
emergencies with a significant impact related to a sudden and unexpected substance release due
to ineffective protection layers. those emergencies include a sudden and unexpected release of
hazardous substances as well as non-toxic and non-flammable substances (water vapour,
condensate, hot water, nitrogen, compressed air, co2) during on-going technological processes,
having one or more of the following consequences:

      injury to an employee of the orlen group or of a contractor or subcontractor, resulting in
      a sick leave or death;

      hospital admission and/or death of any other person;

      officially announced evacuation of local residents or recommendation for them not to leave
      their homes;


                                                374

      fire or explosion resulting in losses in the form of direct costs of at least usd 25 thousand
      (usd 25,000 x ~3 pln/usd = ~pln 75,000);

      release of excessive pressure into the atmosphere with the use of pressure relief devices
      above the threshold amounts for a period longer than 1 hour;

      release of a substance above the threshold amounts for a period longer than 1 hour.


tier 2
emergencies with a smaller impact related to a sudden and unexpected substance release due to
ineffective protection layers. those emergencies include a sudden and unexpected release of
hazardous substances as well as non-toxic and non-flammable substances (water vapour,
condensate, hot water, nitrogen, compressed air, co2) during on-going technological processes,
having one or more of the following consequences not classified as tier 1 events:

      accident involving an employee of the orlen group or of a contractor or subcontractor;

      fire or explosion resulting in losses in the form of direct costs of at least usd 2.5 thousand
      (usd 2,500 x ~3 pln/usd = ~pln 7,500);

      release of excessive pressure into the atmosphere above the threshold tier 2 amounts for
      a period longer than 1 hour;

      release of a substance above the threshold tier 2 amounts for a period longer than 1 hour.


in 2016, the orlen group continued reporting the t3 (tier3) process safety indicator referring to
near-miss events. in 2017, another leading indicator is to be introduced with the support of the
technology office − at the tier4 level.

tier 3 emergencies represent the number of emergency shutdowns of installations or process
nodes triggered by active or passive protections (automatic or mechanical).

tier3 ratio is calculated as follows:

      tier 3 production emergency represents the number of emergency shutdowns of
      installations or process nodes triggered by active or passive protections (automatic or
      mechanical);

      tier 3 logistics emergency represents the ratio of the number of emergency shutdowns of
      product loading to rail tank cars and road tankers triggered by active or passive protections
      (automatic or mechanical) to the total number of loading operations performed at a given
      time.


number of t1 and t2 events

t1 process safety events number




                                                375

t2 process safety events number




t1 pser12) and t2 pser13) indices




                                    376

12)
      number of events with high impact due to release of the substance to the environment * 1000 000 / man-hours
13)
      number of events with minor effects due to release of the substance to the environment * 1000 000 / man-hours
14)
      association formed by a group of leading oil companies to conduct research on environmental issues related to the oil
industry. its scope of activities include areas such as fuel quality and emissions, air quality, water quality, soil
contamination, waste, occupational health and safety, oil product liability. t1 pser and t2 pser concawe indicators
represent the number of recorded failures in member enterprises, multiplied by one million and divided by the total
number of man-hours worked (https://www.concawe.eu/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/rpt_17-6.pdf).

reported t1 and t2 events for 2016 involved emission to the environment from fires and spills.
on the other hand, there were no events that caused serious damage to the environment. liquid
leaks were collected and disposed of.

monitoring integrity of production assets and maintenance programme

asset integrity relies on timely internal equipment and pipeline inspections and pressure tests, as
well as on keeping process parameters within operating windows. monitoring of compliance with
inspection and oversight deadlines is supported by the szeor system. in most cases internal
equipment inspections and pressure tests are carried out during planned maintenance under
long-term schedules. inspections of safety valve settings are subject to a separate procedure to
ensure integrity. automatic control and security systems are also subject to a dedicated
programme setting the dates for tests and functionality checks. in parallel, the risk based
inspection (rbi) programme is being implemented in partnership with and under the supervision
of the polish office of technical inspection. the programme offers the added value of continuous
improvement of availability and safety of process units with the integrity of production assets
maintained.

the production plant in płock operates the reliability management system, which analyses all
unplanned unit shutdowns, significant volume losses and other major reliability-related incidents.
the system is a key building block of the continuous organisational and technical improvement
and excellence process. selected data illustrating the operation of the reliability management
system is presented in the charts below.


                                                             377

number of investigative teams assembled to investigate reliability-related events




number of recommendations issued by investigative teams




                                              378

number of events affecting unit availability per annum

  1. pkn orlen s.a.

  2. ab orlen lietuva

  3. orlen koltrans sp. z o.o.

  4. orlen południe s.a.

  5. orlen asfalt sp. z o.o.

  6. orlen upstream sp. z o.o.

  7. paramo, a.s.

  8. orlen deutschland gmbh

  9. orlen centrum usług korporacyjnych sp. z o.o.

 10. orlen projekt s.a.

 11. orlen wir sp. z o.o.

 12. unipetrol a.s.

 13. ventus-nafta, ab

 14. orlen centrum serwisowe sp. z o.o.

 15. orlen administracja sp. z o.o.

 16. orlen oil sp. z o.o.

 17. anwil s.a.


                                              379

18. basell orlen polyolefins sp. z o.o.

19. česká rafinérská, a.s.

20. unipetrol rpa, s.r.o.

21. unipetrol doprava, s.r.o.

22. petrotrans, s.r.o.

23. orlen paliwa sp. z o.o.

24. orlen aviation sp. z o.o.

25. iks solino s.a.

26. orlen transport s.a.

27. orlen laboratorium s.a.

28. orlen serwis s.a.

29. orlen eko sp. z o.o.

30. orlen ochrona sp. z o.o.

31. orlen budonaft sp. z o.o.

32. ship-service s.a.




                                          380

environmental responsibility
our strategy is based on the principles of corporate
social responsibility, including those relating to
environmental protection. we aim to balance the goals
of our stakeholders, reporting the results of our
environmental protection efforts. aware of its
environmental impacts, the orlen group takes
measures to prevent any environmental damage in the
course of its business in keeping with the precautionary
principle. our environmental objectives are set out in
the integrated environmental policy adopted by pkn
orlen.
these objectives are pursued based on the integrated management system in place, which
comprises the iso 9001-compliant quality management system, aqap 2120-compliant quality
management system, iso 14001-compliant environmental management system, pn-n-18001-
compliant occupational health and safety management system, pn-iso/iec 27001-compliant
information security management system, haccp food safety management system,
international sustainability & carbon certification (iscc) system, and factory production control
system (zkp).

these systems meet the highest international management standards and support the
company’s day-to-day efforts to ensure professional customer service and maintain top quality,
safety, health protection and environmental standards.

the re-certification audit of the integrated management system carried out in april 2016 by
bureau veritas polska confirmed that our procedures were appropriate and met the reference
standards, which resulted in the award of the integrated management system certificate to pkn
orlen.




                                               381

in 2016, we continued to implement our environmental strategy for 2013–2017, the key elements
of which include:




the key projects and initiatives announced and carried out in 2016 within the framework of the
orlen group’s environmental strategy included installation of photovoltaic modules at selected
service stations in poland. environmental projects pursued in 2016 at the production plant in
płock involved primarily adaptation of process units to the new environmental requirements and
standards imposed by the best available techniques (bat conclusions). these included both
administrative activities, such as preparation and submission of applications to amend the
relevant integrated permits, and investment projects to bring the process units in line with the
applicable legal provisions.

the most important environmental project completed in 2016 at the płock production plant was
the construction of flue gas denitrification and dust removal units for the on-site chp plant
boilers, as well as construction of a shared flue gas desulfurisation unit. the last boiler (k3) was


                                                382

connected to the flue gas desulfurisation unit. operation of the unit in 2016 reduced so 2
emissions from the chp plant by more than 95% year on year.

major projects carried out at the other companies of the orlen group in 2016 included:
construction of denox and desox units and installation of a new system for continuous
monitoring of emissions at the t700 power plant of unipetrol rpa; construction of a desox unit
at the fluid catalytic cracker in the kralupy refinery, and extension of the systems for continuous
monitoring of emissions at the refineries in litvínov and kralupy, owned by česká rafinérská;
adaptation of a power node at orlen południe to applicable laws on flue gas emissions, including
reduction of dust emissions.

in q4 2016, in accordance with its internal regulations, pkn orlen remeasured and optimised
the financial resources necessary to ensure performance of remediation work on land occupied
by fuel facilities. a report was prepared by a team of external experts with extensive knowledge
in this field and experience gained in projects completed both at home and abroad. a detailed
analysis was carried out to determine the environmental risk of the facilities subject to the audit
and the probable costs of removing the effects of environmental pollution. the assessment
covered service stations, fuel terminals, storage depots, petroleum production sites, and the
płock production plant.

reduction of environmental footprint has been the orlen group’s long-standing priority, as
confirmed by its numerous green initiatives and good practices, frequently awarded in
environmental competitions.

in 2016, pkn orlen was distinguished in the ‘eco-responsibility in business’ competition.

anwil received the ‘white csr leaf’ for the second time; it is awarded to companies which
declare implementation of all key categories of management recommended by the iso
26000 standard and make an effort to constantly improve effective management of their
environmental impact.




                                               383

water
the orlen group pays particular attention to the protection of natural resources across all areas
of its operations. this includes water resources, which are always used in a prudent manner.

the orlen group's activities related to water consumption include several elements:




surface waters were the main water source for group companies. they are abstracted by the
orlen group’s largest companies, namely anwil, iks solino, pkn orlen, orlen południe,
česká rafinérská, paramo, orlen lietuva, unipetrol rpa, and spolana, and then distributed
through water mains to their own production facilities and to other companies’ installations.

in 2016, the orlen group abstracted 82,610,301 m3 of surface water, groundwater and mains
water.

the following table presents the amount and type of water abstracted by the orlen group’s
largest production unit – the płock production plant.

at the płock plant, the company has in place a system for recycling wastewater as industrial
water, which consists in looping the water and wastewater systems, converting wastewater into
industrial water (tertiary treatment − coagulation and flocculation accelerators, and quaternary
treatment − algae and reed ponds), and using an inhibitor node, in which treated wastewater is
inhibited and sanitised by chlorine water. treated wastewater is used as utility water for washing,
cleaning and fire-fighting applications. to make the water fit for feeding into utility and fire-
fighting systems, the plants are controlled for cleanliness during leakproof testing. water carried
to the utility and fire-fighting systems is sourced from blowdown of circuits. condensate from
steam circuits is treated and used as high-quality water.

as we use substantial quantities of water, we recycle as much of it as possible for further use.


                                                384

water abstracted by the płock production plant in 2015−2016, by amount and type:


                                                              year



                    parameter                          2015           2016       increase/decrease
                                                                                        [%]



 water drawn from the wisła river [m3]               24,363,987   23,437,909                 (3.8)


                                          3
 water abstracted from deep water wells [m ]            413629         463206               11.98


                             3
 amount of recycled water [m ]                        2,418,949      3,147,039               30.1



the amount and quality of abstracted water is monitored. the year-on-year decline in the amount
of water withdrawn from the wisła river (down 3.8%) was attributable to numerous maintenance
shutdowns of production units, which reduced demand for water used to generate energy and
compensate losses in the cooling systems. however, preparation of the production units for
overhauls drove up demand for utility and fire-fighting water, which translated into a 30.1%
increase in the amount of recycled water used for that purpose. in 2016, recycled water
represented 13.42% of total amount of water withdrawn from the wisła.

withdrawal of water and discharge of treated wastewater to the wisła river in relation to crude oil
volumes processed in 2015−2016 at the płock production plant:




the water consumed by the włocławek pta plant for its operational purposes is delivered by
anwil’s external supplier.

water drawn by the włocławek pta plant in 2015−2016:




                                               385

                                                                              increase/decrease
                  parameter                                  year                    [%]



                                                      2015          2016



 demineralised water [m3]                         1,898,542     1,873,478                     (1.3)



 industrial water [m3]                                 68893         47069                  (31.68)


                         3
 decarbonised water [m ]                          2,170,540     2,147,147                     (1.1)


                                 3
 sanitary and drinking water [m ]                      5349           5436                      1.6



 total – water delivered by anwil’s               4,143,324     4,073,130                     (1.7)
                     3
 external supplier [m ]



there were no maintenance shutdowns in 2016, so consumption of industrial water fell relative to
2015 as the consumption of industrial water goes hand in hand with the scope of repair works
(including hydrodynamic cleaning of installations, pressure tests).

in 2016, pkn orlen s.a.’s distribution facilities (service stations, fuel terminals) abstracted 1,912
m3 of surface water and 69,898 m3of groundwater.

the amount of water abstracted from the environment by the other orlen group companies
depends primarily on their production demand; in 2016, it exceeded 55m cubic meters.




                                                386

water abstraction at other companies of the orlen group in 2015–2016 [m3]:


                                           water abstraction [m3]


               intake                   2015                       2016                   increase/decrease
                                                                                                 [%]


     surface water                       59,408,533                 55,779,646                          (6.11)


     groundwater                          1,929,628                  2,026,601                            5.03


     mains water                              855278                    831129                          (2.82)



     total1)                              62193439                   58637376                             5.72



1)
 data in the table includes water abstracted for own purposes and purposes of other consumers.

the amount and quality of abstracted water is monitored. the lower volume of water abstracted
from the environment was due to closing of the ethylene production unit at unipetrol in the
czech republic. furthermore, the companies abstracted 831,129 m3 of mains water from third-
party suppliers.

recycled materials used as input materials (water)

water abstraction is metered at all companies. pkn orlen, anwil, orlen południe, orlen
lietuva and spolana reused in their production processes a total of 8,137,342 m3 of water, or
9.85% of the total volume of water abstracted by the orlen group.




                                                        387

emissions

emissions and ambient concentrations
air emissions of pollutants are monitored through periodic or continuous measurements, so that
actual emissions can be compared against emission limits defined in the relevant integrated
(ippc) permits on an ongoing basis.

the orlen group’s activities related to emissions include several elements.




substances accounting for the largest percentage of total air emissions from the orlen group’s
installations include: sulfur dioxides, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxides and dioxides, as well as
particulate matter. they are generated mainly from the combustion of fuels to produce electricity
and heat, as well as in the refining and chemical processes. there are also process-specific
emissions.

total air emissions, including of carbon dioxide, reached 13,009,402.27 mg in 2016.

in 2016, periodic measurements of air emissions from the petrochemical, refining and chp units
in płock and the pta plant in włocławek revealed no exceedance of the permitted emission levels
from the integrated permits. similarly, data from the continuous monitoring system installed at
the emission sources of the on-site chp plant were in line with the minister of environment’s
regulation on emission standards for installations.

the information and data presented below relate to selected emissions, excluding carbon
dioxide, which is reported on in the section management of greenhouse gas emissions.




                                               388

selected air emissions generated by the płock production plant in 2015−2016:


                                                                   emissions [mg]                increase/decrease



                         substance                                2015             2016               [mg]            [%]


     sulfur dioxide                                           15,501.14          4,567.11       (10,934.03)          (70.54)


     nox (nitrogen dioxide equivalent)                          5,770.94         4,452.06         (1,318.88)         (22.85)


     carbon monoxide                                            1,673.21         1,500.69             (172.52)       (10.31)


     total hydrocarbons                                           957.95           878.07              (79.88)        (8.34)



     total particle emissions1                                    461.06           371.05              (90.01)       (19.52)



     other substances 2                                           113.90           551.55              437.65        384.24



     total emissions, excluding carbon dioxide                24,478.20        12,320.53        (12,157.67)          (49.67)



1)
     in the 2015 integrated report and earlier reports, the item also included emissions od metals.
2)
     other substances - the item also includes emissions of metals disclosed under total particle emissions in the
2015 report and earlier reports.




                                                              389

total emissions in relation to crude oil processing volumes at the płock production plant in
2015−2016:




in 2016, total emissions (excluding carbon dioxide) fell by approximately 50% year on year,
mainly on the back of lower so2 and nox emissions resulting from highly efficient operation of
the wet flue gas desulfurisation, denitrification and dust removal units at the chp plant. an
increase in the emissions of other substances was due to the first-time reporting of the emissions
of inorganic acids, their salts and anhydrides, following measurements performed in flue gas duct
after the fgd unit.

in 2016, the terephthalic acid production plant (pta plant) in włocławek reported a slight
increase in main air emissions compared with 2015.




                                                390

selected air emissions generated by the pta plant in włocławek in 2015−2016:


                                                       emissions [mg]



           substance               2015      2016     increase/decrease   increase/decrease
                                                             [mg]                [%]


 sulfur dioxide                     2.33      2.46                 0.13                5.58


 nox (nitrogen dioxide             71.63     80.53                 8.90               12.42
 equivalent)


 carbon monoxide                  749.74    874.29              124.56                16.61


 total particle emissions           2.78      2.31               (0.47)              (16.88)


 other substances                  39.99     36.15               (3.84)               (9.60)


 total emissions, excluding       866.47    995.74              129.27                14.92
 carbon dioxide



at the other orlen group companies, air emissions of individual substances in 2016 went down
year on year, with the most significant reduction achieved in carbon oxides.




                                             391

air emissions from other orlen group companies [mg]:


                                        emissions [mg]



           substance                   2015              2016             increase/decrease
                                                                                 [%]


 sulfur dioxide                            18761            17118                          (8.76)


 nox                                        5301             5147                          (2.90)


 carbon monoxide                            1798             1133                        (37.00)


 particle emissions                         1239             1144                          (7.66)


 other substances                          11219            12721                          13.39



 total                                    38318             37263                          (2.75)



the reduction in emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitric oxides and dust was achieved on reduced
consumption of oil in favour of gas fuel, installation of enhanced control of combustion processes
and energy efficiency improvements.

ambient concentrations
in 2016, air quality monitoring in the vicinity of the płock production plant covered the same
substances as in the previous year: o3, co, so2, no2 and btx, and was carried out from an
automatic monitoring station located outside the plant’s premises − at junior high school no. 5.
the station has been included in the state environmental monitoring programme, and
atmospheric measurements are automatically sent to the inspector of environmental protection
for the warsaw province in warsaw.

analysis of the 2016 measurement readings indicates that the company complied with the
environmental standards for all measured pollutants, as laid down in the minister of
environment’s regulation of august 24th 2012. there were no instances of the maximum annual
average concentrations being exceeded for any substance.

at the junior high school no. 5 station, the average annual so2 concentration in 2016 was almost
30% lower relative to the year before. this was due mainly to the reduction of so2 emissions from


                                               392

the chp plant after the flue gas desulfurisation unit was placed in service.

in the case of the other key substances: no2 and benzene, the concentrations reported in
2015 and 2016 were comparable.

besides pkn orlen, ambient air quality monitoring is carried out by three companies: anwil,
orlen lietuva and česká rafinérská.

at anwil, off-site periodic measurements are taken at two locations to measure the
concentrations of vinyl chloride (c2h3cl) and 1,2-dichloroethane (c2h4cl2), while on-site
measurements additionally cover ammonia (nh3) and nitrogen dioxide (no2).

orlen lietuva monitors ambient concentrations at four off-site locations, within the so-called
sanitary zones. measurements are taken once a day to monitor the levels of vocs, benzene
(c6h6), toluene (c7h8), ethylbenzene (c8h10), carbon monoxide (co), hydrogen sulfide (h2s) and
nitrogen dioxide (no2).

monitoring at česká rafinérská covers ambient concentrations of sulfur dioxide (so2), nitrogen
oxides (no2) and benzene (c6h6). ambient concentrations are monitored on a continuous basis
from an automatic station.

a comparison of monitoring data with permissible levels has shown compliance with legal
requirements.

management of greenhouse gas emissions

direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) at the orlen group include emissions
reported under the eu emissions trading scheme (eu ets). there are also co2 emissions not
covered by the eu ets, which totalled 2,035 mg in 2016. the calculations factor in co2 and
n2o emissions (gwp − 298). there are no biogenic co2 emissions..

in 2016, greenhouse gas emissions were balanced on a monthly basis for pkn orlen’s refinery,
chp plant, olefins ii, ethylene oxide and glycol, and pta units, as well as other units owned by
the orlen group, all of which participate in the emissions trading scheme (ets). the extent to
which the allocated co2 emission allowances were utilised was monitored on an ongoing basis for
each unit. in addition, forecasts were made as to the level of co2 emission allowances in relation
to annual production targets.in line with the act on trading in greenhouse gas emission
allowances, free emission allowances were to be transferred to companies in europe by february
28th 2016, in amounts calculated by adjusting the initial allocation quotas for a cross-sectoral
correction factor. the allocated allowances were transferred to installation accounts on february
25th 2016.




                                                393

co2 emissions from pkn orlen’s installations, and allocation of allowances in 2016:


                                     allocation of
                                      allowances          actual         surplus/shortage of
                     emissions           [no. of         emissions           allowances
   installation      [mg eco2]       allowances]           [%]           [no. of allowances]



 refinery               2556591
                                           3022672             18191                   (2475979)
 chp plant              2942060


 olefins ii unit         732701              637034           115,02                     (95667)


 ethylene oxide           41467               30701           135,07                     (10766)
 and glycol unit


 pta                      92089              114699            80,29                       22610



 pkn orlen              6364908            3805106            167,27                  (2,559,802)



pursuant to directive 2003/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council, in order to
obtain transitional free allocation of allowances to modernise the power sector, pkn orlen,
anwil s.a. and orlen południe s.a. applied for additional allocation of free co2 emission
allowances for the power sector under a derogation request included in the national investment
plan. the investment projects undertaken by pkn orlen, i.e. construction of the k8 boiler and
tg-7 turbine generator at the chp plant, as well as construction of the ccgt plant in włocławek,
are covered by the national investment plan, which is why pkn orlen is eligible to apply for
additional allowances for the power sector in 2013−2020.




                                               394

verified co2 emissions from other companies of the orlen group in 2015–2016:




                                                                           emissions [mg co2]



 company                                                                      2015       2016


 orlen asfalt sp. z o.o.                                                      3975       2972


 anwil s.a.                                                                1187597   1151673


 basell orlen polyolefiins sp. z o.o.                                        36482      40707


 orlen południe s.a. jedlicze production plant                               40196      35180


 orlen południe s.a. trzebinia production plant (fractional distillation      8272       8746
 unit)


 orlen południe s.a. trzebinia production plant (chp plant)                  80198      82921


 public company orlen lietuva                                              1755789   1830717


 unipetrol rpa                                                             2841185   2491235


 česká rafinérská a.s.                                                      889418    677662


 paramo a.s.                                                                 36064      36622


 spolana a.s.                                                               239568    233445



 total orlen group companies                                               7118744   6591880




                                                 395

other companies’ average annual co2 emission allowances and their utilisation:


                                        allocation of
                          co2            allowances       utilisation of    surplus/shortage of
   orlen group        emissions in          [no. of        allowances           allowances
     company             2016           allowances]             [%]         [no. of allowances]



 anwil s.a.                1151673             960804             119,87                (190869)


 basell orlen                 40707             62124              65,53                   21417
 polyolefins sp.
 z o.o.


 orlen asfalt sp.              2972             10743              27,66                    7771
 z o.o.


 orlen południe               91667             47313             193,75                 (44354)
 s.a. (trzebinia
 production plant)


 orlen południe               35180             18460             190,57                 (16720)
 s.a. . (jedlicze
 production plant)


 unipetrol rpa,            2491235            1279465             194,71               (1211770)
 s.r.o.


 paramo a.s.                  36622             48537              75,45                   11915


 spolana a.s.               233445             132782             175,81                (100663)


 česká rafinérská           677662             819935              82,65                  142273
 a.s.


 orlen lietuva             1830717            1359259             134,68                (471458)



 total orlen group         6591880            4739422             139,09               (1852458)
 companies



the results of independent carbon emissions verification were positive for all units of the orlen


                                               396

group. emissions are monitored in accordance with the methodology applicable to units of that
size and described in commission regulation (eu) no 601/2012 of june 21st 2012 on the
monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to directive 2003/87/ec of the
european parliament and of the council establishing a mechanism of monitoring and reporting
greenhouse gas emissions and activity data pursuant to directive 2003/87/ec in the trading
period beginning on january 1st 2013 and in subsequent trading periods.

in 2016, the co2 interdisciplinary supervisory team, responsible for effective management of
emission allowances and on-going monitoring of eu ets regulations, prepared documents
necessary to ensure proper monitoring and operation of the units.

utilisation of the allocated allowances is monitored by the orlen group on an ongoing basis. the
deficit of credits needed to offset annual emissions was covered with purchased allowances.




                                              397

waste
key activities undertaken with respect to waste:




overall, in 2016 the orlen group generated 175,243.78 mg of waste, of which 75,304.60 mg was
hazardous waste and 99,939.18 mg was non-hazardous waste.

57,412 mg of generated waste was disposed of and 98,534 mg was recycled. in addition,
2,996 mg of hazardous waste and 1,634 mg of non-hazardous waste was landfilled. the largest
groups of waste generated by the płock production plant in 2016 were gypsum (22,420.950 mg),
scrap metal (6,032.154 mg), and spent catalysts (6,718.188 mg).




                                               398

waste management at the płock production plant in 2015−2016:


                                                         amount [mg]



                       waste                           2015        2016       increase/decrease
                                                                                     [%]



 total generated waste: of which:                      17039    48,215,62                  183.0



 hazardous waste                                        8057    10,829,07                   34.4


 non-hazardous waste (excluding municipal waste)        8982    37,386,55                  316.2


 transferred for recycling                             14464        47343                  227.3


 transferred for disposal                               1729          4480                 159.1


 stored waste                                           6184          2577                (58.3)



in 2016, the amount of waste generated by the płock production plant went up 183.0% year on
year, the increase being driven mainly by the amount of gypsum from the newly launched flue
gas desulfurisation unit. the waste transferred for recycling and disposal in 2016 included waste
generated and stored in previous years. additionally, pkn orlen's distribution facilities
generated 37.53 mg of hazardous waste and 2,160.63 mg of non-hazardous waste.

in 2016, 5,910.888 mg of hazardous waste and 919.679 mg of non-hazardous waste was sent for
recycling abroad.

in 2016, the włocławek pta plant generated 30.5% less waste than in 2015. waste was managed
in compliance with the relevant integrated permit. the largest group of generated waste was
waste from the production of terephthalic acid (4,329.98 mg). in 2016, the waste was transferred
to a third-party operator.




                                               399

waste management at the włocławek pta plant in 2015−2016:


                                                           amount [mg]



 waste                                                      2015    2016        increase/decrease
                                                                                       [%]



 total generated waste: of which:                           6444       4477                 (30.5)



 hazardous waste                                            6425       4383                 (31.8)


 non-hazardous waste (excluding municipal waste)              19         93                 389.5


 transferred for recycling                                    86        139                  61.6


 transferred for disposal                                   6294       4335                 (31.1)


 stored waste                                                 67         70                       4.5



both the płock production plant and the włocławek pta plant stayed well within the limits
specified in their respective integrated permits.

in 2016, the płock production plant and the włocławek pta plant carried out segregated
collection of municipal waste.

in total, other companies of the orlen group generated over 120,000 mg of waste in 2016. its
volumes are presented below, by type.


         quantity of generated waste          2015           2016             increase/decrease
                     [mg]                     [mg]           [mg]                    [%]



 hazardous waste                                 58842         60055                          2.06


 non-hazardous waste                             76750         60299                        (21.43)



 total                                          135592        120354                        (11.24)




                                              400

compared with 2015, in 2016 there was a decrease in the amount of waste generated, mainly
non-hazardous waste. this was due to the recognition of gypsum as a by-product of the flue gas
desulphurisation process carried out in the flue gas desulphurisation unit at pkn orlen power
plant launched at the end of 2015. until the end of this unit start-up and before achieving the
required quality parameters, the gypsum generated was waste from the calcium flue gas
desulphurisation methods and was classified as such in 2015. in 2016 the gypsum was already
a by-product of standard value.

anwil, spolana and orlen lietuva generated much less oil-containing sludge from wastewater
separation and demolition waste than in 2015.

in 2016, the orlen group recycled more than 51,000 mg and disposed of more than 48,000 mg
of waste. the most frequently used recovery methods are regeneration or re-refining of waste
oils. waste disposal takes place chiefly in incineration plants or wastewater treatment plants.




                                             401

waste management methods at other orlen group:




the orlen group operates three landfill sites:

     orlen eko − landfill site for hazardous waste, where residue from the hazardous waste
     incineration plant is disposed of,
     anwil − landfill site for non-hazardous and inert waste, with special cells for hazardous
     waste,
     spolana – landfill site for hazardous waste, where ashes are landfilled.

amounts of waste transferred to orlen group’s landfill sites:




                                                 402

pkn orlen submits the prtr report to the voivodship inspector for environmental protection,
which contains information on the release and transfer of pollutants into the air, water and land,
and waste disposed to disposal plants or landfills.

in 2016, 11 companies were obliged to meet the reporting requirements concerning waste under
the european pollutant release and transfer register (e-prtr). total weight of transferred waste
was more than 156,000 mg, of which nearly 95,000 mg was transferred by pkn orlen.

waste transfer at orlen group companies:




                                               403

effluents
the orlen group’s activities related to effluents include several elements.




effluents from all orlen group companies are directed to industrial and rain water sewage
systems and then undergo treatment.

the amount of effluent discharged to the environment is metered. in 2016, it totalled 46,045,031
m3 for the orlen group.




                                               404

treated effluent parameters at the płock production plant in 2015−2016:


                                                                    year



                       parameter                             2015          2016     increase/decrease
                                                                                           [%]



     effluents discharged to the wisła river [m3]          13872354    12489077                  (10)



     cod load in effluents discharged to the wisła           797800        795554               (0.3)
     river [kg per annum]1)


     suspension in effluents discharged to the               120689        131135                 8.7
     wisła river [kg per annum]


     phenol in effluents discharged to the wisła                140           175                 25
     river [kg per annum]1)



1)
     gross load

pkn orlen operates a highly-efficient central wastewater treatment plant (cwtp), which treats
wastewater from offices and social facilities, industrial wastewater and rainfall runoff from the
premises of the płock production plant, including that coming from third-party companies
operating on the plant’s premises. all wastewater funnelled to the cwtp is subject to a multi-step
treatment process which includes mechanical, physical, chemical and biological treatments.
treated wastewater, meeting the criteria specified in the company’s water permit, is discharged
to the wisła river. the quality of effluents that may be discharged from any specific unit is
precisely defined in a quality/quantity standard, which is updated annually. at pkn orlen, some
treated wastewater is reused to produce water suitable for various uses on the plant’s premises
(other than for human consumption) or for fire-fighting purposes, which considerably reduces the
quantity of water abstracted from the wisła river and pollutant loads discharged into the river
with effluents.




                                                     405

amounts of water abstracted from and effluents discharged to the wisła river in relation to crude
oil processed by the płock production plant, in 2015–2016:




the cod load in wastewater discharged to the wisła river remained practically unchanged year
on year (slight drop of 0.3%) preparation for production unit overhauls caused a larger inflow of
pollution loads to the central wastewater treatment plant (cwtp). in 2016, the phenol and
suspension loads discharged to the wisła river increased by 25% and 8.6%, respectively, relative
to 2015, although the reduction rates for those pollutant loads at the wastewater treatment plant
remained very high (99.9% and 91%, respectively).

the amount of wastewater discharged to the wisła river went down by 10% year on year as more
wastewater was used to produce utility water and water for fire-fighting purposes. the płock
plant’s increased demand for utility and fire-fighting water was related to numerous maintenance
shutdowns of production units.

pollutant loads in treated effluents discharged to the wisła river by the płock production plant in
2015−2016:




                                               406

at the pta plant in włocławek, all wastewater generated in the production of terephthalic acid is
discharged into the individual sewage systems of anwil s.a. in accordance with the relevant
decision of the marshal of the province of bydgoszcz. the decision contains a water-law permit to
discharge industrial wastewater containing substances particularly harmful to the water
environment from the purified terephthalic acid (pta) plant into the sewage system owned by
zakłady azotowe anwil of włocławek.




                                               407

amounts and quality of effluents discharged by the włocławek pta plant in 2015−2016:


                                                             year



                    parameter                         2015          2016    increase/decrease
                                                                                   [%]


 effluents discharged to anwil s.a.’s sewage         1807880    1903453                    5.0
 system [m3]


 cod load in effluents discharged to anwil s.a.’s    4929696    3860093                 (21.7)
 sewage system [kg per annum]


 5-day bod load in effluents discharged to           2104736    2055171                  (2.4)
 anwil s.a.’s sewage system [kg per annum]


 cobalt content in effluents discharged to               677          396                 41.5
 anwil’s sewage system [kg per annum]



the lower cod load in effluents was achieved by replacement of the s-2522a/b filter cartridges
during the overhaul in october 2015.
the decrease in cobalt content was attributable to the replacement of ion exchange resins in the
cobalt recovery unit during the overhaul in october 2015.

the table below presents volumes of effluents discharged to the environment by other
companies of the orlen group




                                               408

amounts of effluents discharged by other companies of the orlen group in 2015–2016 [m3]:


                                           effluents discharged to the environment [m3]



               effluent type                   2015          2016         increase/decrease
                                                                                 [%]


 industrial effluents                        29776037       26323123                 (11.60)


 other                                       10137410        7232831                 (28.65)



 total                                       39913447       33555954                 (15.93)



the drop in the amount of effluents discharged was related to a temporary shutdown of the
kralupy refinery operated by česká rafinérská. anwil and spolana also reduced their volumes of
effluents discharged.




                                             409

share of each substance content in effluents discharged to the environment:




the substance load in effluents discharged into the environment by other companies of the
orlen group totalled almost 50,000 mg.




                                              410

environmental regulations
measures taken to ensure compliance with environmental regulations were as follows:




all orlen group companies hold the legally required permits based on which they operated in
2016. integrated permits and sectoral permits need to be updated on an on-going basis in
keeping with the evolving legal environment and business needs. in 2016, new administrative
decisions were obtained and certain existing decisions were amended at pkn orlen s.a. the
formal and legal changes concerned the płock production plant, the włocławek pta plant, and the
two new ccgt units: in płock and włocławek.

at the regional structures of pkn orlen, comprising:

      codo stations – service stations selling orlen goods and services, service stations
      excluded from sales but not transferred to separate assets, and service stations transferred
      to separate assets,
      fuel terminals and headquarters of regional structures,
      separate assets,

obligations resulting from the environmental law are performed by orlen eko under an
agreement supervised by the environmental protection office. in 2016, seven decisions were
obtained for fuel terminals (water-law permit for groundwater abstraction, water-law permit for
discharge of rainwater and meltwater into the environment, water-law permit for discharge of
treated industrial wastewater (mix of rainwater and meltwater, sanitary and process wastewater,
and groundwater).

in 2016, 132 required water-law permits for service stations were obtained. with respect to five
service stations, applications and water-law surveys were filed with relevant environmental
protection bodies and proceedings are pending to issue appropriate decisions.


                                               411

in 2016, compliance of our operations with the environmental laws was verified by
representatives of the płock and włocławek units of the relevant provincial inspectorates of
environmental protection (wioś) during nine environmental inspections.

two follow-up instructions were issued and subsequently accepted for implementation.

in 2016, 59 inspections were conducted at the regional structures of pkn orlen (service
stations, fuel terminals, separate assets) by the provincial inspectorates of environmental
protection, county councils and municipal offices.

provincial inspectorates of environmental protection performed 43 inspections at service stations
and issued 9 follow-up instructions with respect to the following areas:

      water and wastewater management and wastewater discharge according to standards,
      performance of average daily wastewater tests,
      performance of operational inspections of rainwater treatment equipment.

at fuel terminals, provincial inspectorates of environmental protection carried out 10 inspections.
one follow-up instruction was issued for the operation of a unit discharging wastewater to surface
waters. in 2016, provincial inspectorates of environmental protection also performed inspections
of the bm 23 olecko and pałac srebrna separate assets.

other companies of the orlen group were also inspected by external bodies for environmental
protection, mainly the environmental protection inspection authority. the inspections focused on
whether the environmental requirements imposed by regulations and administrative decisions
were complied with. in 2016, 34 inspections were carried out at subsidiaries, including
9 inspections at distribution facilities of benzina (2 inspections), orlen paliwa (6 inspections) and
petrolot (1 inspection). in 2016, 52 inspections were carried out at subsidiaries, including
10 inspections at distribution facilities of benzina (2 inspections), orlen paliwa (6 inspections),
ventus nafta (1 inspection) and petrolot (1 inspection).
they focused on:

      water and wastewater management,
      waste management,
      air emissions and reporting,
      soil and water environment.

investment reviews were also performed at various projects at the final stage of their
commissioning.

in 2016, three orlen group companies (paramo, unipetrol rpa and orlen lietuva) were fined
for breaching the terms of their respective permits for economic use of the environment. the
fines were a consequence of industrial accidents, such as unsealing of the sewage system,
substance leakage into the environment, and increased air pollutant emissions. the fines
amounted to eur 36,276.

capital expenditure on environmental protection
measures taken with respect to general issues:



                                                 412

capital expenditure

the aggregate amount of capital expenditure on environment protection projects incurred by the
entire orlen group in 2016 was in excess of eur 22m.

in 2016, environmental protection spending at the płock production plant was pln 55.72m, down
by more than 76.4% year on year. expenditure on environmental protection represented 2.81%
of pkn orlen’s total capex budget in 2016.

capital expenditure at the płock production plant in 2015−2016:




in 2016, the company completed a very important pro-environmental investment, namely
construction of flue gas denitrification and dust removal units at the chp plant, as well as
construction of a shared flue gas desulfurisation unit for all boilers. in effect, the emissions of so2,
nox and dust have been reduced, while the heat and power source used by the company
reached compliance with the requirements of the directive on industrial emissions (ied) effective
from january 1st 2016.



                                                  413

spending on environmental protection at service stations came close to pln 3.7m in 2016, down
by more than 44% year on year. it covered both capex and non-capex projects, primarily proper
water and wastewater management and upgrade work on linear drains, separators at service
stations and car washes.

in 2016, other companies of the orlen group also implemented a range of initiatives aimed at
reducing energy intensity of the processes and greenhouse gas emissions, and at preventing
environmental pollution. major projects included: adaptation of a power node to the applicable
legal regulations on flue gas emissions at orlen południe, preparation of the denox and desox
units and installation of a system for continuous monitoring of emissions at the t700 power plant
of unipetrol rpa, and expansion of hydrogeological monitoring at iks solino.

total spending on environmental protection projects by the orlen group subsidiaries in
2016 amounted to nearly eur 8.34m.

environmental fees

business entities using the environment are required to pay environmental charges, as provided
for in the environmental protection law of april 27th 2001. the płock production plant pays
environmental charges for air emissions, abstraction of water, and discharge of effluents to water
and soil. the włocławek pta plant pays only for air emissions since its abstraction of water and
discharge of effluents are performed under a civil law agreement.




                                               414

fees for economic use of the environment at the płock production plant and the włocławek pta
plant in 2015−2016:


                                       total amount [pln]              increase/decrease



               fee                    2015                2016            [pln]        [%]



    total                            17,115,703.21    10,348,130.56   (6,767,572.65)   (40)



    air emissions                    14,719,190.21     8,155,047.56   (6,564.142.65)   (45)


    płock production plant           14,512,228.00*    7,935,429.03   (6,576,798.97)   (45)


    włocławek pta plant                206,962.21*      219,618.53          1265632       6


    abstraction of water               1,416,874.00    1,367,459.00      (49415.00)     (3)


    discharge of wastewater              979639.00       825624.00      (154015.00)    (16)



*
 including co2 emission allowances


in 2016, the charges for air emissions paid by the płock production plant fell by 40% year on
year, mainly as a result of the new flue gas treatment units operating at the chp plant.




                                             415

total fees for the economic use of the environment at service stations, fuel terminals, separate
assets, and other pkn orlen facilities in 2015−2016:


                                     total amount [pln]                 increase/decrease



             fee                    2015                2016             [pln]            [%]



 total                             684753.00          1116368.00         431615.00              63



 air emissions                     484501.00           862197.00         377696.00          78.0


 abstraction of water                5686.00              9462.00          3,776.00         66,4


 discharge of wastewater           194566.00           244,709.00         50143.00          25.8



in 2016, total fees for the economic use of the environment at pkn orlen’s regional units
increased more than 60%, with the increase reported for all fee components.


total fees paid by pkn orlen for the economic use of the environment in 2015−2016:


                                     total amount [pln]                  increase/decrease



             fee                    2015                2016               [pln]           [%]



 total                           17800456.21         11,464,498.56     (6,336,429.65)      (35.6)



 air emissions                   15203691.21          9,017,244.56     (6,186,446.65)      (40.7)


 abstraction of water             1422560.00           1376921.00         (46111.00)        (3.2)


 discharge of wastewater          1174205.00           1070333.00        (103872.00)        (8.8)




                                               416

fees for the economic use of the environment at pkn orlen in 2015−2016:




in 2016, pkn orlen recorded an overall drop in the total amount of fees for the economic use of
the environment, down over 35% compared with 2015. this was chiefly due to the reduction of
charges for air emissions at the płock production plant, with the flue gas treatment unit at the
chp plant being the largest contributor

the other companies of the orlen group also pay fees for the economic use of the environment
as required by law. in 2016, their aggregate amount exceeded eur 13m, the largest portion of
which was water abstraction charges paid by eight companies other than pkn orlen.
a significant drop was seen in charges for waste landfilling, attributable to lower amounts of
waste disposed of at the landfill owned by anwil.

environmental fees at other companies of the orlen group [eur]:




                                              417

                                         amount [euro]



              fee                 2015             2016                increase/decrease
                                                                              [%]


 total air emissions           3,031,167 €      3,035,333 €                                  0.14


 water abstraction            10,664,284 €      9,588,827 €                                (10.08)


 discharge of wastewater         328,642 €        361,872 €                                 10.11


 waste landfilling                95,204 €         66,742 €                                (29.90)



 total fees                   14,119,297 €    13,052,774 €                                  (7.55)



structure of environmental fees [eur]:




best practices in the area of education
environmental compensation

a large production company like pkn orlen uses the natural environment intensively, one
example of which is the preparation of sites for new projects. this process often involves the


                                               418

necessity to remove trees and shrubs in industrial areas. to compensate for those environmental
impacts, we embark on numerous pro-environmental projects, including the planting of trees and
shrubs on the company’s own premises and in the town of płock.

in 2016, 134 trees and 22 shrubs were planted as part of our environmental compensation
efforts.

peregrine falcon restoration project
since 1999, pkn orlen has been actively involved in efforts to restore the peregrine falcon
population in poland, in cooperation with the ‘sokół’ (‘falcon’) wildlife protection association.
the peregrine falcon is listed on the polish red list of animals as a cr (critically endangered)
species. the programme is a showcase of pkn orlen’s long-term environmental initiatives. our
partnership with the ‘sokół’ association is regularly recognised and awarded in environmental
competitions.




under the agreement with the association, the nest and the falcons are continuously monitored,
chicks are ringed, and the box is inspected and maintained outside the breeding season.

today, we encourage everyone to watch the lives of these wild birds through the nest webcam.

for more information on the peregrine falcon, history of the nest, the programme and the
‘sokół’ (‘falcon’) wildlife protection association, visit www.peregrinus.pl/en.

program responsible care (odpowiedzialność i troska)

                             since 1997, pkn orlen has been a member of the responsible
                             care programme, a voluntary global pro-environmental initiative of
                             the chemical industry. steady improvement of the condition of the
                             natural environment is a measure of the programme’s success, and
                             continuous dialogue with clients, suppliers, trading partners and
                             local communities is one of the key areas of a company’s
                             contribution to the initiative. its participants make a public
                             declaration of their intention to improve their performance and are
expected to demonstrate their achievements.

other orlen group companies participating in the responsible care programme include iks
solino, basell orlen polyolefins, anwil, and orlen południe.

in 2016, pkn orlen continued its activities under the programme, and met all the related
reporting obligations: reports, indicators, surveys. the information is used to assess the condition
of the environment and the progress of the responsible care implementation by chemical
industry companies that have subscribed to the initiative and are members of the polish chamber


                                                419

of chemical industry www.pipc.org.pl/en.

pkn orlen also performed its obligations under the responsible care framework management
system. under the programme, pkn orlen carried out the projects declared for 2016 in the area
of health, safety and environment (hse). it completed 48 out of the 64 declared projects, while
14 are under way and will be continued in 2017.

number of projects implemented as part of the responsible care programme in 1997–2016:




besides reporting and mandatory tasks, the company continued an initiative to increase
employees’ involvement in learning and expanding their knowledge about the ideas behind and
guidelines of the responsible care programme, and to raise their awareness of the nature around
us. in 2016, the projects carried out as part of the programme included the ‘catch the hare’
photo competition, ‘tree for a bottle – new edition’, ‘i care for the environment’ and ‘nature
watchers’ campaigns.

environmental grievance mechanisms
activities related to environmental grievance mechanisms included the following:




                                              420

in 2016, the environmental inspection system registered complaints on potential nuisance risks
arising from planned and unforeseen events related to maintenance works as well as internal and
external interventions.

number of complaints filed with the environmental inspection system in 2014–2016:


 year             planned events              unforeseen events             interventions



 2014                               68                             58                       34


 2015                               97                             53                       63



 2016                              130                             45                      153



in 2016, there were 117 external interventions and 36 internal interventions related to nuisance
odours. 38 cases of nuisance odours reported in external interventions were confirmed by
competent services. each complaint was investigated individually, with utmost care. in the areas
where nuisances were possible, substance concentrations were measured in automatic air
monitoring stations and ongoing monitoring of weather conditions was undertaken. the technical
services took steps to check whether the production, repair and maintenance processes were run
correctly and to minimise the nuisance.

interventions in 2016 took place mainly during maintenance work carried out at the oil
processing complex, c4 derivatives complex, i-v reforming complex, cracking and alkylation unit,


                                              421

bitumen and oil processing unit, gas management complex, and the fuel unit. the maintenance
work and preparations for process start-ups involved bleeding and purging of apparatuses, and
steam cleaning of individual systems containing mixtures of hydrocarbons, which were then
routed to the flare stack to be burnt there using methods mitigating the risk of releasing nuisance
odours to the environment around the plant.

in order to minimise the risk of such nuisance, decontamination technology was applied during
the preparatory maintenance works to inactivate harmful substances in internal circulation.
nevertheless, those activities could be a source of temporary emissions. with winds from the
north and adverse weather conditions, they could produce nuisance odours able to spread to the
city.

some external interventions were caused by disruptions in the operation of the claus sulfur
recovery unit and increased hydrogen sulfide content in the fuel gases. a few interventions were
related to noise nuisance caused by the flare stack.

the higher number of interventions in płock is a consequence of the increasing environmental
awareness of the local community. it has been especially raised by intense public debate on the
natural environment in płock and on factors shaping it, which the group took an active part in
through its representatives. this approach, focused on dialogue between the entities affecting
the environment and the local community, stimulates initiatives to identify more effective routes
towards sustainable development, and thus more effective ways to care for the environment.

a total of nine grievances concerning environmental impacts were filed with two orlen group
companies, namely paramo and spolana. they were resolved in accordance with systematic
internal procedures, and the filing persons received relevant feedback.

all the grievances filed with the companies were resolved in the reporting year.




                                               422

environmental safety − example of the płock production plant
the płock production plant is the largest plant of the orlen group. pkn orlen operates under
a strictly regulated legal framework designed to ensure environmental protection.




all the plant emissions are subject to specific limits imposed by the restrictive eu and national
legislation.

integrated permit

pkn orlen was one of the first companies in the chemical industry to obtain the integrated
permit. the permit covers emissions from over 70 emission points, that is all emission points on
the premises of the płock production plant, not only those directly associated with refining and
petrochemical production, but also those relating to the on-site wastewater treatment plant.




                                                423

the integrated permit defines the best available impact monitoring techniques that the plant is
required to apply. more than 30 substances considered critical for human and environmental
safety under the eu and polish laws are monitored on an ongoing basis.

regular activities of the płock production plant are supervised by a number of independent
institutions, including:

      provincial inspectorate for environmental protection,
      chief inspector for environmental protection,
      polish centre for accreditation
      bureau veritas certification,
      national sanitary inspectorate (reach)
      national labour inspectorate,
      trade inspection,
      customs administration,
      supreme audit office,
      independent verifiers / auditors of management systems,
      certification bodies,
      public administration bodies,
      chief building inspection office.

in 2016, a total of 25 inspections were carried out by independent institutions.

pro-environmental investment projects

environmental investment projects are a key component of pkn orlen’s long-term development
strategy. since 1990, total emissions from the płock production plant have been reduced by at
least five times, with crude processing up nearly 60%. since that time, the group has spent more
than pln 6.5bn on environmental projects.

how we protect the air in płock

pkn orlen has completed the ‘green energy’ investment programme worth pln 1.4bn. the key
project under the programme was the flue gas treatment unit, constructed for the sole purpose of
reducing pkn orlen’s environmental footprint. the unit helped to reduce dust emissions by 88%,
nitrogen oxides emissions by 48% and sulfur dioxide emissions by 95% in 2016 relative to 2015.

pkn orlen is testing an innovative technology for removing volatile organic compounds from
polluted air streams. gases generated in the plant’s sewage system are neutralised by selected,
naturally occurring bacteria. the process takes place in a specially designed bioreactor, which


                                                424

ensures optimum conditions for the development and operation of the microorganisms. as
a result, they can work faster, more efficiently, and in a much more volatile environment than
they do in nature. application of this method results in complete decomposition of pollutants into
carbon dioxide and water. if the technology meets the expectations regarding reduction of
malodorous compounds, pkn orlen plans to invest in complete tightening of the sewage system
and construction of a reactor to neutralise all the gases it produces. if the project is implemented,
its key advantages will be completely neutral environmental impact (the technology generates no
by-products), safety of the bioprocesses taking place at a temperature of 25°c–30°c under
normal atmospheric pressure, as well as low energy consumption.

in order to enhance the dialogue with the residents of płock and to raise their awareness of
important aspects of the plant’s operation, in 2016 pkn orlen started to hold regular meetings
devoted to environmental protection.

list of 31 orlen group companies included in the 'environmental
responsibility' section




                                                425

company name                                                         address                                                            website



anwil s.a.                                                           ul. toruńska 222, 87-800 włocławek                                 www.anwil.pl


basell orlen polyolefins sp. z o.o.                                  ul. łukasiewicza 39, 09-400 płock                                  www.basellorlen.pl


benzina s.r.o.                                                       na pankráci 127, 140 00 praha 4, czech republic                    www.benzina.cz


centrum edukacji sp. z o.o.                                          al. kobylińskiego 25, 09-400 płock                                 www.centrumedukacji.pl


česká rafinérská a.s.                                                záluží 2, 436 01 litrvínov, czech republic                         www.crc.cz


inowrocławskie kopalnie soli solino s.a.                             ul. św. ducha 26a, 88-100 inowrocław                               www.solino.pl


orlen administracja sp. z o.o.                                       ul. chemików 7, 09-411 płock                                       www.orlenadministracja.pl


orlen asfalt sp. z o.o.                                              ul. łukasiewicza 39, 09-400 płock                                  www.orlen-asfalt.pl


orlen budonaft sp. z o.o.                                            ul. fabryczna 1c, 34-600 limanowa                                  www.budonaft.com.pl


orlen centrum serwisowe sp. z o.o.                                   ul. wrocławska 58, 45-701 opole                                    www.orlencs.pl


orlen centrum usług korporacyjnych sp. z o.o.                        ul. łukasiewicza 39, 09-400 płock                                  www.orlencuk.pl


orlen deutschland gmbh                                               kurt-wagener- str. 7, 25337 elmshorn, germany                      www.orlen-deutschland.de


orlen eko sp. z o.o.                                                 ul. chemików 7, 09-411 płock                                       www.orleneko.pl


orlen koltrans sp. z o.o.                                            ul. chemików 7, 09-411 płock                                       www.orlenkoltrans.pl


orlen laboratorium sp. z o.o.                                        ul. chemików 7, 09-411 płock                                       www.orlenlaboratorium.pl


orlen ochrona sp. z o.o.                                             ul. chemików 7, 09-411 płock                                       www.orlenochrona.pl


orlen oil sp. z o.o.                                                 ul. opolska 100, 31-323 kraków                                     www.orlenoil.pl


orlen paliwa sp. z o.o.                                              widełka 869, 36-145 widełka                                        www.orlenpaliwa.com.pl


orlen południe s.a.                                                  ul. fabryczna 22, 32-540 trzebinia                                 www.orlenpoludnie.pl


orlen projekt s.a.                                                   ul. zglenickiego 42, 09-411 płock                                  www.orlenprojekt.eu


orlen serwis s.a.                                                    ul. chemików 7, 09-411 płock                                       www.orlenserwis.pl


paramo a.s.                                                          přerovská 560, pardubice 530 06, czech republic                    www.paramo.cz


petrolot sp. z o.o.                                                  ul. bennetta 2, 02-159 warszawa                                    www.petrolot.pl


polski koncern naftowy orlen s.a.                                    ul. chemików 7, 09-411 płock                                       www.orlen.pl


płocki park przemysłowo – technologiczny s.a.                        ul. łukasiewicza 39, 09-400 płock                                  www.pppt.pl


public company orlen lietuva                                         st. 75 juodeikiai village lt-89467 mazeikiai district, lithuania   www.orlenlietuva.lt


przedsiębiorstwo przeładunku paliw płynnych naftoport sp. z o.o.     ul. kpt. ż. w. w. poinca 1, 80-561 gdańsk                          www.naftoport.pl


ship-service s.a.                                                    ul. waliców 11, 00-851 warszawa                                    www.ship-service.pl


spolana a.s.                                                         práce, 657 neratovice 277 11, czech republic                       www.spolana.cz


unipetrol doprava s.r.o.                                             růžodol 4, 436 70 litvínov, czech republic                         www.unipetroldoprava.cz


unipetrol rpa s.r.o.                                                 záluží 1, 436 70 litvínov, czech republic                          www.unipetrolrpa.cz




                                                                   426

responsibility towards customers
one of the principal aspects of the orlen group’s
operations is a steady improvement in the quality of its
products, services and customer service standards.
customers are a key stakeholder for the orlen group.




the orlen group has taken steps to monitor and analyse the impact of its operations on human
health and safety in all spheres of its activity. an area of particular importance to image building
and developing relations with customers and the general public is our service stations and the
way they are managed. the stations’ staff confirm with their appropriate conduct and attitude in
their daily work that customers are the pillar of pkn orlen’s success. a necessary condition for
achieving a steady improvement in quality standards and relations with each stakeholder group
knowledge of what changes are required and where they should be made. our clients’ feedback,
comments and opinions as well as the results of customer satisfaction surveys are an invaluable
source of information in this respect. they are complemented by the reports issued after
inspections and visits of public authorities, aimed at assessing the solutions we employ to ensure
health protection, adequate level of security, and the compliance of our business with applicable


                                                427

laws and regulations.

however, the element of key importance is our commitment to maintaining the highest quality
standards. this applies to our services, goods and fuels offered at the service stations, the orlen
group’s refining and petrochemical products, as well as to the standards of customer service at
our service stations, terminals and sales offices, which we seek to continually enhance. at each
level and phase of cooperation, we take care to protect customers’ health and security.

we care about the quality of our offer and the friendly atmosphere at our service stations.
we seek to make a connection with our existing and potential customers by developing modern
solutions, inspiring positive emotions and emphasising the national character of our brand and
company. the orlen brand is now widely recognised and respected by poles, and this success
has been achieved with an indirect contribution from other trade names: verva and stop cafe.
our customers’ attachment to the brand has been effectively strengthened by the vitay and
flota loyalty schemes.

service stations
an element of fundamental importance to the pkn orlen group image with customers is our
service stations, operating in four european markets: in poland, germany, the czech republic
and lithuania.

managing more than 2,700 sites, we constantly focus on developing the retail segment.
a modern service station network and customer-oriented approach are key to achieving this
objective. in 2016, about 80 service stations were upgraded to ensure that they meet the
exacting requirements of our customers. in all of our markets, 70 new service stations were
added to the chain in 2016, including one msa station in poland.

we continued to develop our food services: the stop cafe and stop cafe bistro chains were
expanded in 2016 with another 131 catering outlets. to meet the needs and expectations of
customers, orlen has embarked on implementing the new format stop cafe 2.0, combining
a convenience store (with a wider range of food products) and a new catering concept. at the end
of the previous year, our service station network included 41 stations with the new store and
catering format.

our market success is founded on customer trust and their loyalty towards our retail chain, which
we seek to build by constantly enhancing the quality of service. having employed special
coaches at our service stations, who are responsible for training the employees and ensuring top
quality service from all team members, and with the development of the vitay and flota loyalty
schemes, we can boast a growing base of loyal customers year after year. to meet the
expectations of customers and constantly improve our service level, in 2016 we made a pilot
launch of mflota, an innovative system for mobile payments for fleet transactions. this mobile
application developed by the company is an innovative and convenient tool for fleet customers
enabling them to pay for fuel directly at the pump. it is the first such solution on the fuel market
of poland. the application makes fuel purchases much faster and simpler − the customers refuel
their cars, pay at the pump, and are free to depart. as the pump quickly becomes available for
the next customer, other customers have time to do more shopping and buy beverages and food
at the station. in the future, this functionality will be made available to all retail customers.
another step towards better service for fleet customers was the start of the implementation of


                                                428

a crm system to support customer management and sale processes.

as a result of work on new options for our trade partners, orlen’s fleet customers are now also
offered electricity supplies. the main benefits to the customer is better terms of sale and the
possibility of simplifying and reducing the number of settlements with external suppliers.

products and services
the main components of our offer for customers are fuels, fuel products, and services.

fuel supply and fuel distribution to customers are subject to detailed rules, which guarantee that
our fuels are of the highest quality and meet all of the requirements specified in the applicable
standards and laws. these rules significantly limit the risk of fuel mixing or tank overfill during
fuel loading at service stations. the fuel supplied to service stations and the condition of the
tanks are constantly monitored. thanks to the procedures and solutions in place, the risk of soil
contamination due to tank leakage has been practically eliminated.

we quickly respond to any comments made or issues raised by customers regarding our fuels.

service stations are not just a place where you can get your fuel. they also feature well-stocked
convenience stores, whose offer is constantly adjusted to changing customer expectations and
market trends. when supplies are received, the expiry dates of all food and other non-fuel
products are checked. we also examine the condition of the packaging. this task is also
performed on an ongoing basis at the stores, during the restocking of products on display and
checking the condition of products on the shelves. we always follow the mandatory rules of
separate storage and display of food products – they are stored in different rooms. where
possible, lubricants, engine fluids and other accessories and car care products are stored in
separate storage units. as a result, customers are confident that they buy quality products that
meet all relevant requirements.

at our service stations customers may also use various services. the key services offered include
convenience foods and a car wash. we do our best to prepare the snacks and hot beverages
offered at our service stations using proven recipes that meet customers’ expectations
concerning ingredients and nutritional value. the coffee that we sell is supplied by producers
supported by the fair trade coffee organisation. we have several dozen in-house recipes for hot
and cold snacks and coffee. we are striving to eliminate preservatives, glutamate, phosphate,
artificial colour additives and flavours. in new procurement processes, we will voice our
expectations as to the desired composition of purchased products and semi-products. in business
decision-making and in dealings with suppliers, we already communicate these expectations,
requesting suppliers to prepare new product formulas without the specified ingredients, which
has worked well for selected sweet snacks and hotdogs.

the popularity of car washes is growing. the vast majority of automatic car washes operating at
retail chains owned by the orlen group have a water recirculation system, this technology
significantly reduces water consumption and the amount of wastewater produced.

customers are informed of the impact on health and safety of all fuels and other products (food,
beverages, sweet and savoury snacks) and services offered at service stations (food, carwash).
for fuels, lubricants, car care products and engine fluids, safety data sheets are available at all
service stations (held by the staff and handed to customers at their request), containing

                                                429

a description and a list of components of those products, information concerning the risks and
hazards as well as procedures to follow in case these risks materialise. disclosure requirements
concerning the threats and hazards posed by the chemicals manufactured and used by the
company are regulated under polish and eu laws. msds documents are the key tool used under
the reach regulation to ensure information flow along the supply chain. pursuant to art. 31 of
reach, the supplier of a substance or mixture is required to deliver to the customer an msds
document in the official language of the member state in whose territory a given substance or
mixture is marketed. the provisions of the polish labour code are equally important. art. 221.2
of the code stipulates that “any user of hazardous substances or hazardous chemical
preparations shall have an up-to-date listing of such substances and preparations, as well as the
relevant msds documents. the substances and preparations shall be handled in packaging that
protects against any noxious action of such substances and preparations, fires and explosions.”

health and safety
 a vital element in the management of the service station network is our commitment to ensuring
the safety of all of those who visit the stations: customers, travellers, business partners and
suppliers. we also aim to improve the comfort level of our own personnel at work.

the stations with lpg pumps are adapted to enable the safe refuelling of gas-powered vehicles.
service station attendants are always ready to assist customers and help them to refuel their
cars.

our service stations are a safe place for both customers and employees. all sites are equipped
with anti burglary and robbery alarm systems. contracts with professional security providers
guarantee the quick arrival of a patrol if needed. most of our service stations have cctv systems
that record all events inside and outside the facilities. the fact that the station personnel have no
access to cash takings is another security feature.

each service station has its own rules for vehicle and human traffic on its premises which,
combined with luminescent markings, increase the overall safety level at the stations.

all pkn orlen service stations apply the haccp food safety management system, implemented
in 2005 based on the requirements of codex alimentarius. the service stations have access to
the technical documentation of haccp, which is available via the station portal. its purpose is to
guarantee that food products sold at the stations meet all the sanitary requirements, are safe,
and that their quality meets the relevant standards, both in the case of individually packaged
products and hot meals served in the restaurants.

haccp have a significant impact on the quality of marketed products − record-keeping,
monitoring and handling receipt, storage, preparation for sale and sale of products in line with
the haccp principles helps to enhance product safety and quality.

haccp, standing for hazard analysis and critical control points, is a system used to identify
health threats and the risk of their occurrence at various stages of food production and
distribution. it helps control and mitigate any hazards to consumer safety and health. basically
a preventive system, haccp aims to minimise hazards related to food sale, protecting consumers
by guaranteeing safety and high quality of purchased foodstuffs. it also protects food
manufacturers, who are able to prove that their products are safe if their production processes


                                                430

are run correctly and are properly documented. haccp has also been implemented by pkn
orlen at its czech, lithuanian and german stations. the system is regularly audited.

the percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts
are assessed for improvement is 100%. in 2016, there were no incidents of non-compliance with
regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and
services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.
the station personnel are instructed to strictly obey the ban on selling alcoholic beverages and
tobacco products to minors. appropriate notices are put up at every site, and awareness training
is organised for staff. another practice is to make service station personnel sign declarations in
which they undertake to observe the upbringing in sobriety and alcoholism prevention act, verify
the age of potential customers and refuse a sale if they suspect that it may be in breach of the
act.

for many years pkn orlen has supported and promoted a healthy lifestyle and various forms of
active leisure. some of these initiatives were addressed to our employees, a case in point being
the sales team conference, during which almost 260 members of our retail personnel cycled on
selected routes along the bug river. most of the events, however, were held with customers in
mind. we organised the largest running event in poland (orlen marathon), supported two
cycling events in germany (velothon in berlin and cyclassic in hamburg), and were one of the
organisers of sports camps for children and youth playing handball in germany (through orlen
deutschland). at more than 500 service stations in poland, special bike racks are available. as
part of the cooperation effort with the green velo eastern cycle trail, a nearly 2,000 kilometre
route crossing five provinces (the provinces of olsztyn, białystok, lublin, rzeszów and kielce),
almost 30 stations were named cyclist-friendly places.
in the czech republic, in 2016 we organised another blood donation campaign for hospitals. as
a result of the event, the customers of our stations donated a total of 60 litres of blood.

facilities for the disabled and children
we make an effort to allow access to our locations to people with disabilities. the comfort of the
youngest travellers is also our priority.

at most service stations there is at least one dedicated and clearly marked parking space for the
disabled, and most restrooms have been upgraded to suit their needs. also, the disabled can
always count on the assistance and kindness of our service station personnel, if necessary.

as far as our youngest travellers are concerned, their comfort is our priority. many service
stations in poland and in the czech republic offer changing tables for babies. children’s needs
are also addressed in our food service (mini menu) and store offer (toys, books and fairy tales).
many service stations (mainly located along the main transit routes) have playgrounds for kids
whose parents are taking a rest while travelling.

in 2016, pkn orlen was awarded in the title of ‘accessibility leader 2016’ in an architecture and
urban design competition organised by the polish urbanists association and the integracja
foundation, under the honorary patronage of the president of the republic of poland andrzej
duda. the award in the public service facility category went to pkn orlen s.a.’s station no. 682,
operating at al. solidarności 100, warsaw. the station has a full range of facilities for the
disabled, combining the highest standards of direct service for disabled customers with dedicated


                                                431

design solutions. all members of the station crew had received specialised training in serving the
disabled. the station has numerous facilities that make it a friendly place for the disabled,
including special equipment for people with mobility and hearing impairment, appropriate
communication and arrangement of the building’s interior, a cash desk suitable for people in
wheelchairs, appropriate toilet facilities, and parking spaces for the disabled. there is also
a training course on how to interact with the disabled, available on the e-learning platform.

this award confirms that we are successful in implementing our csr policy and proves that
we care about customers with special requirements − those with disabilities.

pkn orlen is also successfully continuing the large family card programme, which offers
discounts for the purchase of goods and services as well as fast-track institutional services for
families with many children. as a result, the programme beneficiaries can now avail of a wide
range of discounts when buying fuels, stop cafe products, or car wash services.

customer service standards
in 2016, large-scale customer satisfaction surveys were conducted at the polish and czech
stations of the pkn orlen retail chain.

under this formula, customers can present their feedback concerning a service station they have
recently visited by filling in a questionnaire published on the research agency’s website, which
will then be made immediately available to individual service stations and managers in charge of
the retail network. customers’ individual assessment of operational standards, image, service
level, and product quality, as well as their expectations as to the company and the service
station chain are a valuable source of additional information and guidance on the best directions
for change, solutions preferred by customers, as well as their priorities. the survey enables us to
identify customers’ needs better and will lead to a further improvement in customer service
levels at the service stations. the results of the survey were the basis for preparing a new
training project on how to create a positive customer experience at the stations.

pkn orlen monitors customer satisfaction and loyalty levels on a regular basis. the polish fuel
market is rather unstable due to volatile fuel prices, the development of the service stations
network, and the introduction of new products to the food service, fuel and store portfolios.
customers are offered a variety of promotions and attractive products, building their loyalty
towards the service station that they use most frequently. it is vital to monitor their satisfaction
with various aspects of service station activities. taking a closer look at the key areas of activity
of a service station allows us to specify customer’s relations with the service station and
determine if the course taken by the service station has improved the image of pkn orlen and
boosted customer satisfaction levels. customer surveys also help to determine the evolution of
customer loyalty and satisfaction on a year-on-year basis, and verify which aspects of the service
station’s operations have a major bearing on the quality of customer relations, they also collect
information on the role of image, product and service portfolio, prices offered, locations, and
customer service processes. in addition, they address the question of which kind of experience is
most valuable, which activities should be monitored, and which elements of the customer service
standard should be fine-tuned.

one of the elements enhancing customer relations is the company’s approach to customers’
feedback and reaction to complaints.


                                                432

any person may contact us over the internet, by phone, or personally at service stations and give
their opinion about the station and service. in each case, the contact is registered in the
complaints management system, which also records positive opinions and thanks from
customers.

in 2016, customers at pkn orlen service stations completed more than 300m transactions. over
that period, more than 3,000 complaints were received, and the average time for reply was five
days. the main issues reported by our customers in 2016 were as follows:


                          issue                                  number of complaints



 customer service                                                                         1642


 amount of fuel                                                                            498


 quality of fuel                                                                           673


 technical condition of equipment                                                          247


 food products                                                                             151


 other products                                                                              59


 cleanliness                                                                                 56



 total                                                                                    3326



every customer complaint is analysed individually, in accordance with adopted procedures and in
the spirit of the ‘human2human’ approach.
on the czech market, social media proved very useful in increasing the amount and quality of
customer feedback and improving communication between customers and the benzina station
chain. the use of this communication channel translated into better awareness and acceptance
of our brand and the creation of an image of customer friendly stations.

care for the natural environment
pkn orlen s.a. is particularly committed to environmental protection and this commitment also
extends to its service stations.



                                              433

we put the consumer and the environment first at each stage of a non-fuel product’s lifecycle.
this is particularly important in the case of oils, operating fluids and automotive chemicals. all
packaging is checked on delivery and if any damage is discovered the product is returned.
appropriate storage and display policies help to mitigate the risk of damage to the product or its
packaging and quality deterioration. our service stations provide containers for used oil and
other liquids packaging that may be harmful to the environment. they also provide primary
waste collection containers, enabling customers to dispose of food and beverage packaging, and
other waste.

all automotive products (oils, fluids, car cosmetics) come with safety data sheets specifying how
a product should be stored and what to do in case of contamination or poisoning.

with regard to fuels, we take various measures to protect the environment, for instance we:

      use double-walled tanks to mitigate the risk of petrol leaking into the ground,
      install tanks on fuel-resistant concrete trays,
      install fuel leak detection systems,
      surface the station forecourts so as to prevent petrol from seeping into the ground,
      use hydrocarbon separators in forecourt rainwater drainage systems to prevent petrol
      penetration into the ground or groundwater,
      ensure containment integrity during petrol unloading (to significantly reduce vapour
      emissions),
      fit nozzles with the vrs system enabling recirculation of vapour from the car tank directly
      to a service station tank,
      equip service stations with neutralizing agents to remove spills or leaks that occur during
      refuelling or unloading or result from leaking car fuel systems.

as part of our responsible care for the environment we ensure proper water and wastewater
management at our service stations (involving hydrocarbon separators used to treat stormwater
runoff at the service stations). this limits the risk of environment and groundwater pollution to
a minimum.

the fuel systems are fully sealed and ensure 100% protection from petroleum leakage to the
ground or vapour emissions into the air. our waste management is efficient and effective. in
2015, we introduced selective collection of domestic and packaging waste. food waste and
hazardous waste are stored separately and collected by specialised companies. selected service
stations (mainly in germany) collect waste oil. the stations only use cleaning products from
recognised manufacturers with appropriate certificates.

service stations in the czech republic and germany are prepared to collect returnable glass
containers against a deposit fee. in germany, the system covers all returnable packaging,
including cans and pet bottles.

as part of our environmental policy and commitment to environmental protection, we strive to
minimise electricity consumption. we are implementing numerous optimisation and
development-oriented initiatives with this goal in mind. we use high efficiency equipment. led
lighting is installed at the stations undergoing upgrades. with reactive power compensation at
more than 300 service stations, we were able to obtain white energy certificates. a very



                                               434

promising initiative is the pilot project to equip our stations with photovoltaic cells, which convert
solar light into electricity in various geographic locations with different insolation. our plans
envisage its roll-out at 200 stations in the near future. all of our stations in poland have faucet
aerators, which significantly help reduce water consumption.

one ‘green’ project is being implemented in partnership with tesla, with tesla car quick charge
ports having been installed at two german and two polish service stations. another move towards
alternative fuels is the start of work on installing charge ports for charging electric cars of all
types and cng/lng filling stands in the orlen chain in poland. in the czech republic, the
number of stations offering such fuels increased to 84. on the german market, pkn orlen
commenced the preparations to launch two hydrogen stations in 2017; one station is planned to
be opened on the czech market.


protection of consumer privacy*
pursuant to the provisions of the personal data protection act of august 29th 1997, pkn orlen
s.a. adopted a decision on personal data protection no. 9/2016/dg of march 10th 2016.
moreover, by resolution no. 5394/2015 of june 24th 2015, the management board of pkn orlen
s.a. appointed a data security administrator and his deputies responsible for ensuring
compliance with all applicable personal data protection regulations, including protection of
customers’ data and their processing in accordance with generally applicable laws.

in 2016, pkn orlen s.a. and orlen group companies* reported no substantiated complaints
regarding any infringements on customers’ personal data protection or any cases of loss, theft, or
unauthorised use of such data.

*
    relates to all key subsidiaries in which pkn orlen s.a. holds interest of 50% or more




                                                              435

responsibility towards suppliers
suppliers are one of the key groups of stakeholders. under the csr strategy for 2015–2017 the
company’s suppliers are required to meet specific criteria relating to orlen values and social
responsibility. the procurement area cooperates closely with the stakeholders, analyses their
needs, puts forward common priorities, plans, kpis and improvements.




in 2015−2016, the rules of cooperation with suppliers were changed, with the administrative and
support function gaining a proactive and business-minded role. to achieve our strategic
objectives we are chiefly focused on implementing a method of comprehensive management of
procurement categories, a supplier management model (its elements include segmentation,
classification, management rules) and global procurement standards. also, rules of cooperation
within the group were defined and have been consistently implemented. this process is
supported by the procurement policy implemented as an umbrella document binding across the
group. it establishes common standards covering procedures, processes, tools, systems and
procurement structures. the key initiative is the successive implementation of the connect
procurement platform at the group companies, which promotes uniform and consistent
procurement processes across the group, transparency of procurement processes, knowledge
sharing and better communication with suppliers.

in a significant step towards ensuring sustainable development and responsible supply chain,
pkn orlen incorporated the responsible business and sustainable growth criteria in its
procurement management standard. the company promotes social responsibility among its


                                              436

suppliers and seeks to cooperate with trading partners that respect human rights and operate in
compliance with the law, ensure safe and fair working conditions, follow the best standards of
ethical conduct and care for the environment. csr criteria have been defined and compiled into
a single document entitled ‘supplier code of conduct’. as of april 2016, compliance with the
code is mandatory in the process of trading partner qualification. the release of the code is one
of the initiatives aimed at promoting a responsible supply chain, such as the publication of best
practices in the responsible business forum’s report entitled ‘responsible business in poland
2015. best practice’. moreover, at the 6th csr fair we made a presentation of the procurement
area’s experience in preparing and implementing the ‘supplier code of conduct’, promoting
responsibility among stakeholders and encouraging responsible practices among suppliers. in
november 2016, a package of procurement management guidelines, comprising the
procurement policy and the supplier code of conduct, was released for implementation at the
orlen group companies as a common standard binding across the group.




in 2016, the connect procurement platform saw the launch of a new supplier zone, which will
facilitate the use of the system by our trading partners. this new feature was added in response
to the latest trends in application development. most of all, it addresses the requests made by
suppliers in satisfaction surveys. the respondents expected the platform to be more intuitive and
easier to use. the coming years will see the further integration of procurement tools, including
the launch of new functionalities in the supplier website. the existing set of procurement
documents (requests for proposals, bids) will be expanded to include transaction documents
(orders, contracts, supply notices).

one of the key it systems supporting the procurement function across the orlen group will be
the integrated procurement tool (ipt), whose purchase was initiated in 2016. the goal of the ipt



                                               437

purchase and implementation is to provide a tool to support the p2p (procure to pay) process.
the ipt implementation at the orlen group will increase the efficiency of the procurement
function, shorten the procurement completion time, reduce risk, improve spending transparency
and increase savings.

2016 saw fundamental changes related to the development of the procurement category
strategy and the establishment of a supplier classification and assessment system.

various initiatives and best practices are being implemented across the entire orlen group. the
key element contributing to a more efficient procurement process is procurement category
strategy developed and implemented together with our trading partners. strategic management
of procurement categories facilitates the incorporation of development directions specified in the
company’s strategy in operating activities, which are adjusted to the specific nature of each
procurement category. this approach is aimed at developing new solutions, process streamlining
and cutting costs.

the orlen group cooperates with a group of carefully selected suppliers. as part of an effort to
continuously improve procurement processes, the group enhances and seeks to ensure greater
consistency of supplier selection processes. a supplier classification and assessment model was
worked out. the criteria established based on the best market practices, among other things, it is
now possible to mitigate reputation, financial and process risks, and ensure a high quality of
cooperation with trading partners.

we attach particular importance to engaging with local businesses, based in the county of płock
and the province of warsaw. by using the services of local suppliers the orlen group reinforces
the market and conducts business in its close neighbourhood. such suppliers know the local
market and are often well aware of the needs and expectations of the orlen group companies.
their close proximity also reduces costs, e.g. of transport and accommodation. in 2016, pkn
orlen spent roughly 4% of its total expenditure on products and services offered by płock-based
companies. by cooperating with suppliers from the close neighbourhood the company supports
the growth of the local market and implements the objectives of its csr strategy within the
supply chain.

at key foreign orlen group companies – unipetrol (litvínov) and orlen lietuva (mažeikiai),
spending on the services provided by local suppliers in 2016 was 11% and 1%, respectively, of
their total expenditure.

                                          we put a strong emphasis on the achieving our strategic
                                          objectives and meeting global standards bearing in mind
                                          that our most important asset is our people. this is why
                                          in 2014 we launched a development programme called
                                          the procurement academy. as part of the procurement
                                          academy programme, we worked to improve
                                          professional qualifications and soft skills, which included
the areas of leadership, communication, and bulding of positive relations between employees,
contributing to a higher quality of cooperation and professionalism of the procurement process.
the programme, which continued throughout 2016, translated into a clear and consistent
improvement in our trading partners' satisfaction with the general quality of cooperation and



                                                438

buyer competence. we are proud to announce that 90% of the
current personnel of the procurement area at pkn orlen have
completed the procurement academy. our programme also won
the recognition of polish procurement and logistics managers.
the project was awarded the third position in the ‘procurement
leader’ competition held as part of the procon/polzak
procurement sector conference held on october 18th and 19th in
2016 in warsaw.




in 2015, pkn orlen received the cips certificate (cips - chartered institute of purchasing and
supply) awarded by the world’s largest organisation in the procurement sector. the certificate
which is valid for three years, attests to the international standards applied by the company in
procurement processes.

a form of dialogue with the stakeholders was the third satisfaction survey concerning the level of
cooperation with the procurement area carried out in 2016. the respondents included trading
partners and suppliers.the survey covered many aspects of cooperation, including the
competences of employees, their communication skills and commitment. respondents could also
express their opinion concerning the tools used by pkn orlen, including the connect
procurement platform. the survey showed that the cooperation is still viewed in a favourable
light despite a slight decline in the overall satisfaction index relative to 2015.




                                               439

product responsibility
we seek to consistently reduce the energy
consumption of the orlen group’s production units,
thus fostering operational excellence.
      1. raw and other materials used in production


 in its refining and petrochemical operations, the group processes various raw materials and
semi-finished products. however, crude oil is the principal raw material for production. among
other inputs are biocomponents and other chemicals.

table: materials used in 2016


                                non-renewable feedstock [tone]


                                    pkn orlen              orlen lietuva             unipetrol


 crude oil                            15129586                   9323 372            5421666


 other feedstock                       1006848                     508966            1322317




                                 renewable feedstock [tone]


                                    pkn orlen              orlen lietuva             unipetrol


 biocomponents                         723 636                     75 480             215 081



table: crude oil consumption




                                               440

                                     crude oil consumption



                    2014     2015      2016                        crude share in total feedstock


 pkn orlen          14.28    15.67    15.13                                                      86%


 orlen lietuva       7.50     8.49     9.32                                                      94%


 unipetrol           5.13     6.50     5.42                                                      83%



crude oil, a non-renewable resource, is purchased for all orlen group refineries as part of an
integrated procurement process handled by pkn orlen, which purchases oil from external
suppliers.

other materials used in our plants include natural gas, biocomponents and semi-finished
products, exchanged mainly between the refinery and the petrochemical plants (they are not
primary feedstock).

      2. recycled materials used as input materials

the orlen group recycles effluents and reuses water. recycling involves recovering and
reprocessing of waste materials to obtain raw materials for the same or other applications. by
reusing waste materials, group companies reduce consumption of new raw materials, which
enhances process efficiency and helps protect natural resources.

recovery and reuse of waste materials also reduce the overall amount of generated waste.
reusing energy materials and energy carriers is part of efficient energy management. the
principal goal of the recycling activities is to maximise the amount of reused materials, with
a minimum energy spending on their processing.

in 2016, pkn orlen’s płock production plant recovered 0.03% of slops in the wastewater
treatment process and reprocessed them in the distillation unit. moreover, 21% of treated
wastewater was used to produce industrial water and water for fire-fighting purposes.

waste raw materials and heat were also reused at other orlen group companies.

      basell orlen polyolefins reused 2.07% of heat recovered from production (from steam) for
      water heating purposes.
      anwil reused 7.25% of pvc sx from effluents, 2.14% of river water, and 0.74% of brine in
      its production processes.
      orlen eko reused 2.05% of heat recovered from flue gas to produce steam.
      orlen południe trzebinia production plant recovered: in its chp plant − 6.4% of
      condensate from paraffin production relative to steam carrier production, and in its



                                                441

      fractional distillation unit drw iii − 0.2% of waste generated in the company’s wastewater
      treatment plant, 0.5% of slops, 38.1% of heat from the w-2 column fractions, 4.2% of
      water, and 17.6% of steam condensate relative to consumption of industrial water.
      orlen południe production plant in jedlicze reused in production processes 0.33% of slops
      in the fractional distillation unit and 0.58% of slops in the waste oil regeneration unit. it also
      used 14% of steam condensate in the chp plant.
      orlen lietuva reused 98% of water (e.g. in circulation cooling systems), 88% of effluents
      to produce process water, 0.13% of slops, and 69.76 tonnes of waste in re-refining process,
      and recovered 79.7% of heat from steam.
      spolana reprocessed 7.7% of condensate from heat production, reused 58.9% of effluents
      in production, transferred for reuse: 0.8% of waste paper and 0.3% of plastics, and
      recovered 33.9% of heat and 97.6% of hydrogen. moreover, 99% of cooling water,
      representing 38.5% of all the water abstracted by the company, is re-circulated.

      3. product and service labelling

obligations of the orlen group companies to provide information on the potential hazards
associated with specific products by using special signs and labels originate from international
and eu laws. the scope and division of responsibilities of the orlen group companies are
defined in internal regulations.

the key tool used to determine the required type of labelling is safety data sheets, prepared in
accordance with the eu reach regulation. safety data sheets contain information on product
labelling based on the clp classification and warning stickers related to hazards involved in
transport (if required).

safety data sheets are mainly a source of information on products used for industrial and
professional applications. in the case of products marketed directly for use by general
consumers, such information is provided by orlen group companies by appropriate labelling of
product packaging.

labels on product packaging compliant with clp regulation contain, in addition to pictograms,
standard hazard statements and precautionary statements.

given the wide range of applications for orlen group products, labels on product packaging also
meet detailed requirements provided for in specific legal provisions applicable to detergents,
fertilizers, etc.

as the requirement to communicate hazards and safe use instructions are imposed by law, the
signs included in safety data sheets and on product packaging are checked for regulatory
compliance by competent state authorities (such as the state sanitary inspection (sanepid) or
the national labour inspectorate).




                                                  442

     4. benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels

table: benzene, lead and sulfur content in liquid fuels, by company

pkn orlen s.a.




                                              443

                                                                                                                                                                    basis of regulatory
                                                                                          average content in 2016                                                     requirements



commercial name                                                 sulfur                                              benzene               lead



petrol



regulatory quality requirements                                          max. 10.0   ─                        ─               max. 1.00          max. 5.0


unit                                                                        mg/kg    ─                        ─                 % (v/v)             mg/l


eurosuper 95                                                                   9,0   ─                        ─                    0,68             <2,5    the minister of economy’s
                                                                                                                                                            regulation of october 9th 2015 on
                                                                                                                                                            quality requirements for liquid fuels
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  1,0   ─                        ─                    0,32             >2,5    (dz.u. of october 25th 2015, item
                                                                                                                                                            1680) and pn-en
                                                                                                                                                            228:2013-04/ap3:2016-06 standard:
                                                                                                                                                            ‘automotive fuels. unleaded petrol.
difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              0,2   ─                        ─                   -0,01             >2,5
                                                                                                                                                            requirements and test methods’


eurosuper 95 with ethanol and etbe content                                     8,8   ─                        ─                    0,58             <2,5


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  1,2   ─                        ─                    0,42             >2,5


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              0,2   ─                        ─                    0,01             >2,5


super plus 98 with ethanol and etbe content                                    8,2   ─                        ─                    0,52             <2,5


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  1,8   ─                        ─                    0,48             >2,5


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              0,2   ─                        ─                   -0,07             >2,5


verva 98 with ethanol and etbe content                                         7,6   ─                        ─                    0,51               2,5


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  2,4   ─                        ─                    0,49             >2,5


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                             -0,4   ─                        ─                   -0,08             >2,5



diesel oil



regulatory quality requirements                                          max. 10.0   ─                        ─                     nlp               nlp


unit                                                                        mg/kg    ─                        ─                      ─                 ─


ekodiesel ultra                                                                7,4   ─                        ─                     nm                nm    the minister of economy’s
                                                                                                                                                            regulation of october 9th 2015 on
                                                                                                                                                            quality requirements for liquid fuels
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  2,6   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─    (dz.u. of october 25th 2015, item
                                                                                                                                                            1680) and pn-en 590:2013-12
                                                                                                                                                            standard: ‘automotive fuels. diesel
                                                                                                                                                            oil. requirements and test methods’
difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                             -0,5   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─


class 2 ekodeisel ultra                                                        6,7   ─                        ─                     nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  3,3   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                             -0,8   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─


verva on                                                                       8,5   ─                        ─                     nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  1,5   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                             -0,5   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─



fuel oil



regulatory quality requirements                                           max. 0.1   ─                        ─                     nlp               nlp


unit                                                                      % (m/m)    ─                        ─                      ─                 ─


ekoterm plus fuel oil                                                          0,1   ─                        ─                     nm                nm    the minister of economy's
                                                                                                                                                            regulation of december 1st 2016 on
                                                                                                                                                            quality requirements related to
                                                                                                                                                            sulfur content in oils as well as types
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  0,0   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─    of installations and conditions in
                                                                                                                                                            which heavy fuel oils are to be used
                                                                                                                                                            (dz.u. of december 14th 2017, item
                                                                                                                                                            2008) and pn-c-96024:2001
difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              0,0   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─    standard ‘petroleum products. −
                                                                                                                                                            fuel oils’


regulatory quality requirements                                           max. 3.5   ─                        ─                     nlp               nlp


unit                                                                      % (m/m)    ─                        ─                      ─                 ─


ooc3                                                                           2,0   ─                        ─                     nm                nm    the minister of economy's
                                                                                                                                                            regulation of october 22nd 2015 on
                                                                                                                                                            requirements for sulfur content in
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  1,5   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─    marine fuel, including measurement
                                                                                                                                                            method (dz.u. of 2015, item 1665)
                                                                                                                                                            and pn-c-96024:2001 standard
                                                                                                                                                            ‘petroleum products. fuel oils’
difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                             -0,1   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─



aviation turbine fuel



regulatory quality requirements                                          max. 0.30   ─                        ─                     nlp               nlp


unit                                                                      % (m/m)    ─                        ─                      ─                 ─


jet a-1                                                                       0,04   ─                        ─                     nm                nm    in-house standard zn-orlen-18
                                                                                                                                                            ‘aviation turbine fuel jet a-1’,
                                                                                                                                                            detailed requirements consistent
                                                                                                                                                            with aviation fuel quality
                                                                                                                                                            requirements for jointly operated
                                                                                                                                                            systems – afqrjos, product
                                                                                                                                                            specifications bulletin, bulletin 96.
                                                                                                                                                            aviation fuel quality requirements,
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                 0,26   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─
                                                                                                                                                            issue october 29th 2016. joint
                                                                                                                                                            inspection group (jig), containing
                                                                                                                                                            requirements listed in: a) uk
                                                                                                                                                            defence standard, british ministry of
                                                                                                                                                            defence, defence standard 91-091
                                                                                                                                                            (def stan 91-091), issue 9 october
                                                                                                                                                            3rd 2016. 'turbine fuel, aviation
difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                            -0,02   ─                        ─                      ─                 ─    kerosene type, jet a-1. nato code:
                                                                                                                                                            f-35', join service designation:
                                                                                                                                                            avtur; and b) astm d 1655-16a
                                                                                                                                                            standard specification for aviation
                                                                                                                                                            turbine fuels.




                                                                                         444

orlen południe




                 445

                                                                                                    basis of
                                                                                                   regulatory
                                                  average content in 2016                        requirements



commercial name              sulfur                                 benzene         lead


regulatory quality                    max. 10.0    ─            ─             nlp          nlp
requirements


unit                                     mg/kg     ─            ─              ─            ─


biodiesel rme/fame (b100)                  5,46    ─            ─             nm           nm    the minister of
                                                                                                 economy’s
                                                                                                 regulation of
                                                                                                 january 22nd
                                                                                                 2009 on quality
                                                                                                 requirements
                                                                                                 for liquid
                                                                                                 biofuels (dz.u.
                                                                                                 of 2009, no. 18,
                                                                                                 item 98), the
                                                                                                 minister of
                                                                                                 economy’s
                                                                                                 regulation on
                                                                                                 quality
                                                                                                 requirements
                                                                                                 for
                                                                                                 biocomponents,
                                                                                                 as well as
                                                                                                 methods of
                                                                                                 testing
                                                                                                 biocomponent
difference between the                     4,54    ─            ─              ─            ─
                                                                                                 quality and
2016 average and the
                                                                                                 taking
required standard
                                                                                                 biocomponent
                                                                                                 samples (dz.u.
                                                                                                 of december
                                                                                                 17th 2010,
                                                                                                 item), the
                                                                                                 minister of
                                                                                                 economy’s
                                                                                                 regulation of
                                                                                                 may 14th
                                                                                                 2015 amending
                                                                                                 the regulation
                                                                                                 on quality
                                                                                                 requirements
                                                                                                 for
                                                                                                 biocomponents,
                                                                                                 as well as
                                                                                                 methods of
                                                                                                 testing
                                                                                                 biocomponent
                                                                                                 quality and
difference between the                      1,1    ─            ─              ─            ─    taking
averages for 2015 and 2016                                                                       biocomponent
                                                                                                 samples (dz.u.
                                                                                                 of june 11th
                                                                                                 2015, item 780)
                                                                                                 and pn-en
                                                                                                 14214+a1:201
                                                                                                 4-04/ac:2014-1
                                                                                                 1 standard
                                                                                                 ‘automotive
                                                                                                 fuels. fatty acid
                                                                                                 methyl esters
                                                                                                 (fame) for
                                                                                                 compression-
                                                                                                 ignition (diesel)
                                                                                                 engines.
                                                                                                 requirements
                                                                                                 and test
                                                                                                 methods’




                                                       446

orlen lietuva




                447

                                                                                                   average content in 2016                                                      basis of regulatory requirements



commercial name                                                 sulfur                                                           benzene               lead



petrol



regulatory quality requirements                                            max. 10.0   max. 15.0                             ─             max. 1.00          max. 5.0


unit                                                                          mg/kg       mg/kg                              ─               % (v/v)             mg/l


us92 gasoline                                                                     ─       13,23                              ─                  0,90               nm    us specification (colonial pipeline company section
                                                                                                                                                                         3,4 quality assurance)

difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         1,77                             ─                  0,10                ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─         0,37                             ─                  0,09                ─


a92 gasoline                                                                    6,97          ─                              ─                  0,84             < 2,5   in-house standard orlen lietuva įst
                                                                                                                                                                         166451720-3:2009 ‘automotive fuels. basic
                                                                                                                                                                         unleaded petrol for compounding with bioethanol.
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                   3,03          ─                              ─                  0,16             >2,5    requirements and test methods’



difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              -1,24          ─                              ─                  0,04             >2,5


95 gasoline                                                                     6,92          ─                              ─                  0,81             < 2,5   en 228:2012 ‘automotive. unleaded petrol.
                                                                                                                                                                         requirements and test method' − lithuanian
                                                                                                                                                                         standard lst en:2013 'automobiliniai degalai.
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                   3,08          ─                              ─                  0,19             >2,5    bešvinis benzinas. reikalavimai ir tyrimo metodai'



difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              -0,38          ─                              ─                 -0,02             >2,5


95 bio gasoline                                                                 6,78          ─                              ─                  0,90             < 2,5


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                   3,22          ─                              ─                  0,10             >2,5


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              -0,01          ─                              ─                  0,00             >2,5


98 gasoline                                                                     5,38          ─                              ─                  0,88             < 2,5


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                   4,62          ─                              ─                  0,12             >2,5


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                               0,30          ─                              ─                 -0,06             >2,5



diesel oil



regulatory quality requirements                                           max. 1,000   max. 10.0                             ─                   nlp               nlp


unit                                                                          mg/kg       mg/kg                              ─                    ─                 ─


marine gasoil                                                                   800           ─                              ─                   nm                nm    lst iso 8217:2012 'petroleum products. fuels (class
                                                                                                                                                                         f). specifications of marine fuels'

difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                200,00           ─                              ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                               -100          ─                              ─                    ─                 ─


arctic diesel                                                                     ─         6,76                             ─                   nm                nm    en 590:2013/ac:2014 'automotive fuels. diesel.
                                                                                                                                                                         requirements and test methods' − lithuanian
                                                                                                                                                                         standard lst en 590:2014/ac:2014 'automobiliniai
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         3,24                             ─                    ─                 ─    degalai. dyzelinas. reikalavimai ir tyrimo metodai'



difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─         0,52                             ─                    ─                 ─


diesel f                                                                          ─         7,34                             ─                   nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         2,66                             ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─         0,37                             ─                    ─                 ─


diesel e                                                                          ─         7,05                             ─                   nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         2,95                             ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─        -0,51                             ─                    ─                 ─


diesel c                                                                          ─         6,54                             ─                   nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         3,46                             ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─        -1,57                             ─                    ─                 ─


diesel e bio                                                                      ─         7,43                             ─                   nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         2,57                             ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─         1,43                             ─                    ─                 ─


diesel c bio                                                                      ─         6,59                             ─                   nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         3,41                             ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─        -1,40                             ─                    ─                 ─


heating oil                                                                       ─         6,98                             ─                   nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         3,02                             ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─         0,76                             ─                    ─                 ─


diesel agro                                                                       ─         7,15                             ─                   nm                nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                     ─         2,85                             ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                 ─         0,50                             ─                    ─                 ─



fuel oil



regulatory quality requirements                                          max. 30,000          ─                              ─                   nlp               nlp


unit                                                                          mg/kg           ─                              ─                    ─                 ─


fuel oil                                                                     24 300                                          ─                   nm                nm    according to agreement with customer.


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                  5 700          ─                              ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              1 300          ─                              ─                    ─                 ─



aviation turbine fuel



regulatory quality requirements                                            max. 0.30          ─                              ─                   nlp               nlp


unit                                                                        % (m/m)           ─                              ─                    ─                 ─


jet a-1                                                                         0,02          ─                              ─                   nm                nm    astm d 1655-16 'standard specification for aviation
                                                                                                                                                                         turbine fuels'

difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                   0,29          ─                              ─                    ─                 ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                              -0,01          ─                              ─                    ─                 ─




                                                                                             448

česká rafinérská a.s.




                        449

                                                                                                                                    average content in 2016                                                                                     basis of regulatory requirements



                                                                commercial name                           sulfur                                                           benzene                  lead



petrol



regulatory quality requirements                                                          max. 10.0                       ─                                          ─                max. 1.00             max. 5.0


unit                                                                                         mg/kg                       ─                                          ─                  % (v/v)                mg/l


natural 95 super (bio-e5)                                                                       3,8                      ─                                          ─                     0,75                  0,0   čsn-en 228:2013 (65 6505) ‘motorová paliwa. bezolovnaté automobilové
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      benziny.technické požadavky a metody zkoušeni’ (‘automotive. unleaded petrol.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      requirements and test method’)
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                   6,2                      ─                                          ─                     0,25                  5,0


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                               0,6                      ─                                          ─                     0,03                  0,0


natural 95 super (bio-e10)                                                                      4,1                      ─                                          ─                     0,77                  0,0


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                   5,9                      ─                                          ─                     0,23                  5,0


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                               1,0                      ─                                          ─                     0,03                  0,0


natural 95 super (bioetbe-exp.)                                                                 3,8                      ─                                          ─                     0,77                  0,0


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                   6,2                      ─                                          ─                     0,23                  5,0


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                               0,6                      ─                                          ─                     0,06                  0,0


natural 95 preblend without biocomponents bioalcohol (nbp - preblend)                           4,4                      ─                                          ─                     0,77                  0,0


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                   5,6                      ─                                          ─                     0,23                  5,0


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                               1,6                      ─                                          ─                    -0,01                   ─



diesel oil



regulatory quality requirements                                                            max. 10                       ─                                          ─                      nlp                  nlp


unit                                                                                         mg/kg                       ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


motorová nafta třídy b, d, f (mn tř. b,d,f - nbf - preblend)                                    7,3                      ─                                          ─                      nm                   nm    čsn en 590 (65 6506) ‘motorová paliva. motorové nafty. technické požadavky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a metody zkoušení' (‘automotive. diesel. requirements and test method’)

difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                   2,7                      ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                              -0,3                      ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


motorová nafta třídy 2 (nbf b0)                                                                 3,2                      ─                                          ─                      nm                   nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                   6,8                      ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                              -0,8                      ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


nm třída b,d,f (nbf-preblend)                                                                   7,2                      ─                                          ─                      nm                   nm


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                   2,8                      ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                              -0,9                      ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─



fuel oil



regulatory quality requirements                                                        max. 1,000.0                min. 0.1                                   max. 1.0                      ─                    ─


unit                                                                                         mg/kg                 % (m/m)                                    % (m/m)                       ─                    ─


eto                                                                                             8,3                      ─                                          ─                      nm                   nm    in-house standard pn 10 crc ‘topný olej extralehký (toel, eto) technické požadavky
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a metody zkoušení’

difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                               991,70                       ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                               0,3                      ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


tot r2 vysokosirný                                                                               ─                     2,6                                          ─                                                 čsn 65 7991:2003/z1:2005 'ropné výrobky. topné oleje. technické požadavky’


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                    ─                     2,5                                          ─                       ─                    ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                                ─                     0,0                                          ─                       ─                    ─


tot r2 málosirný                                                                                 ─                       ─                                         1,0                     nm                   nm    čsn 65 7991:2003/z1:2005 'ropné výrobky. topné oleje. technické požadavky’


difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                    ─                       ─                                         0,0                      ─                    ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                                ─                       ─                                         0,0                      ─                    ─



aviation turbine fuel                                                                                                                                              0,0



regulatory quality requirements                                                          max. 0.30                       ─                                          ─                      nlp                  nlp


unit                                                                                       % (m/m)                       ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


jet a-1                                                                                       0,09                       ─                                          ─                      nm                   nm    aviation fuel quality requirements for jointly operated systems – afqrjos, product
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      specifications bulletin, bulletin 96. aviation fuel quality requirements, issue october
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29th 2016. joint inspection group (jig)
difference between the 2016 average and the required standard                                 0,21                       ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─


difference between the averages for 2015 and 2016                                             0,05                       ─                                          ─                       ─                    ─




 all types of liquid fuels that are finished (final/commercial) produced and marketed by pkn
orlen and the orlen group companies meet the legal, regulatory and regulatory requirements
for benzene, lead and sulfur content. more information is available at
www.orlen.pl/en/forbusiness/pages/default.aspx.

volumes of biofuels produced and purchased meeting the sustainability criteria

in order to protect the environment, and in view of the national requirements to ensure
a minimum share of biofuels in transport, the orlen group used over 699 thousand tonnes of
methyl esters and more than 225 thousand tonnes of bioethanol.

all biofuels used by the orlen group in all its markets met the sustainability criteria specified in
the res directive and fuel quality directive.

table. volumes of biofuels produced and purchased met the sustainability criteria


                                                                        biofuels [t]                  poland                                       czech republic                                lithuania                                      total



             fatty acid methyl esters                                                                 543 887                                                            115 789                    39 408                               699 084


             bioethanol                                                                               175 811                                                             40 487                      8 795                              225 092




                                                                                                                              450

                   biofuels [m3]                      poland      czech republic           lithuania         total



     fatty acid methyl esters                         609 813                131 131           44 630        785 574


     bioetanol                                        226 042                 51 184           11 119        228 345



*
    the purchased volumes of biocomponents was used to blend fuels for the czech, german and other markets
**
     the volumes include biofuels produced by orlen południe.

           5. management approach in the area of energy

our strategy for the energy area is to create value through operational synergies with the
refining and petrochemical business of the downstream sector. in 2016, the orlen group
reduced its energy intensity by nearly 1pp (yoy).

the key focus is on developing modern industrial cogeneration as a source of electricity and heat
for production assets, as well as the pursuit of new projects based on innovative technologies,
including renewable energy sources. at the orlen group, we are committed to continuous
efforts towards operational excellence in such areas as production process optimisation,
distribution losses and the improved efficiency of process units. our strategic vision in the energy
area is to transform the orlen group from an energy consumer to an energy producer. all
activities required to achieve the stated objectives are carried out with due regard for the
environment and local communities.

key projects in the energy area:

           włocławek ccgt plant − commissioning and launch of commercial sale of electricity
           płock ccgt (combined-cycle co-generation gas turbine) plant– construction
           obtaining white certificates as a part of the initiative to improve energy efficiency
           x-selling – project implementation
           testing of pilot photovoltaic panels at service stations and pilot led installation at the chp
           plant in płock
           implementation of iso 50001- compliant energy management system
           gahe (active energy trading platform) – implementation work on the czech and lithuanian
           markets

in 2016, the energy saving measures led to the following reductions in energy consumption:

           electricity – 16,242 mwh
           heat in steam – 102,753 gj

the savings were calculated based on data from pkn orlen, unipetrol and orlen lietuva. the main criterion in selecting
the reporting companies was their business materiality for the energy area. the figures comprise the energy area
exclusively, i.e. chp and ccgt units.




                                                           451

                 table: energy consumption



  electricity consumption                                                        mwh                      513 751


  heat consumption                                                                gj                    6 641566


  electricity sold                                                               mwh                    2 346373


  heat sold                                                                       gj                   31 694348


  electricity consumption                                                         gj                    1 849504


  heat consumption                                                                gj                    6 641566


  electricity sold                                                                gj                    8 446944


  heat sold                                                                       gj                   31 694348



  total consumption                                                               gj                   48 632362



the table sets forth companies with the highest consumption and production figures (pkn orlen, anwil, unipetrol,
orlen lietuva). the figures exclusively comprise the energy area, i.e. chp and ccgt units.




                                                         452

society
business strategies are expected to address the
challenges posed by civilisational changes, progress
and advancement, and evolving stakeholder
expectations. responsible leadership and
consequently, the sustainable growth of a business, is
the right way to mitigate risks, build trust in the brand
and enhance company reputation. responsible
management across the orlen group is driven by our
awareness of the company’s impact on its immediate
and more distant environment, and predictions
concerning the consequences of these effects and the
burden to be borne by future generations.




corporate social responsibility (csr)

the orlen group’s corporate social responsibility (csr) strategy states that value growth
should be aligned with the interests of external stakeholders and rely on sustainable and
responsible use of resources.

the csr strategy identifies three principal areas of activity – organisation, close environment
and distant environment. in the first area; organisation, the key goal is to build lasting
relationships with employees based on diversity, a sense of security, development opportunities,
as well as combining social and professional roles. in the close environment, priority is given to
developing the social conscience and a sense of responsibility in our trading partners and
customers through sharing best practices and knowledge, and implementing the most exacting



                                               453

csr standards. in the distant environment, pkn orlen promotes innovation and fosters the
highest industry standards in business ethics and environmental protection.

as part of the first area, the orlen group strives to create a culture based on trust, equal
opportunities and fair treatment of all employees regardless of sex, age, job position, length of
service, trade union membership, religion, nationality, belief system, physical appearance or
sexual orientation. the group follows transparent human rights and non-discrimination policies
and is committed to ensuring a mutually beneficial work-life balance.

key activities in the strategy’s second area, namely activities related to promoting the
development of a social conscience and a sense of responsibility, include employee volunteering
projects. the assumptions underlying the employee volunteering programme have been revised,
and now it is also open to initiatives put forward by the employees. by expanding the catalogue
of activities, the group has been able to steadily increase both the number of charity campaigns
and of participating employees.

innovative projects seeking to reduce the orlen group’s environmental footprint represent the
third pillar of the csr strategy. corporate environmental responsibility is much more than just
compliance with environmental laws and regulations or undertaking educational projects
addressed to employees, customers, suppliers and local communities. it also encompasses
implementation of environmental management systems and investing in innovative,
environment-friendly technologies which bring benefits and are a source of competitive
advantage on the market.

      1. organisation

      ‘eco-volunteering’ programme in płock and warsaw as part of the earth day –
      144 volunteers
      ‘good energy factory’ – a volunteering programme of employees of the płock production
      plant for the benefit of the local community: long-term partnership with foster care
      institutions in płock and its vicinity – 450 volunteers and nearly 500 beneficiaries
      project management day – event organised to create a project community at the company,
      and apply in practice mechanisms of knowledge management in projects; it contributes to
      the development of project management skills and culture – 150 employees involved
      across the orlen group

      2. close environment


      more than 33 thousand participants of the ‘orlen warsaw marathon’
      more than 100,000 participants of central europe’s biggest motor and entertainment show
      – ‘verva street racing’, organised in the vicinity of the national stadium in warsaw,
      combining world-class motor sports and entertainment
      funding provided to more than 150 fire brigades from all over the country for safety related
      activities
      the orlen group’s first ever integrated report
      continuation of the cross-sectoral partnership programme – support for the grant fund for
      płock foundation and the good neighbourhood grant fund for ostrów wielkopolski
      association


                                                454

      nationwide social campaign ‘gym class with a champion’, seeking to promote sports and
      to spread the idea that physical activity is an element inevitable for a child’s proper
      development – number of children: 11,172, number of athletes: 88, number of towns: 35
      more than 500 participants of walk-through events at the płock production plant

      3. distant environment

      maintaining the prestigious title of the world’s most ethical company
      promotion of poland’s economy − projects promoting polish achievements: ‘congress 590’,
      ‘100% polish’, ‘poland’s 200 largest companies’, ‘i buy because it’s polish’, and ‘poland’s
      compass’
      continued participation in the project to restore the peregrine falcon population in poland,
      run since 1999 in cooperation with the ‘sokół’ (‘falcon’) wildlife protection association;
      since 2002, 42 peregrine falcon chicks, a species threatened with extinction, have hatched
      in the grounds of the pkn orlen płock production plant.
      a proprietary project called ‘future fuelled by knowledge’

employee volunteering programme

our employee volunteering programme has operated since 2004 and has become a fixed
element of our corporate culture. it comprises three different programmes and forms of
engagement – grant-giving, integration and campaigns, through which the employer provides
financial, expert and organisational support for social and charitable activities initiated and
carried out by employees.

in 2016, employees combined training sessions with assistance to those in need by signing up for
the ‘we act together to help’ voluntary scheme. those initiatives produced tangible results as
the volunteers renovated facilities and cleaned up the grounds of day care centres, erected
playgrounds, organised educational workshops and sports activities.

2016 also saw the inauguration of the ‘good energy factory’ voluntary scheme, under which
employees of the płock production plant carried out renovation and construction work for the
local community. last year, a total of 450 volunteers implemented 8 major renovation projects
with enormous scopes of work – renovation of playgrounds and green areas, as well as over
40 rooms used daily by nearly 500 children from care and education facilities.

the company’s employees received grants to implement their own social initiatives for local
communities under the ‘it’s a good idea to help’ grant programme. for instance, they helped
patients of hospices and hospitals and organised workshops for children.

in addition, they also carried out two large environmental campaigns involving entire families.
one, to mark earth day, involved cleaning up the vistula river bank in płock, the other, in
warsaw, restoring the ecosystem of the czerniakowskie lake.

as the year drew to a close, the spotlight was on the 10th edition of the christmas volunteering
project ‘become a santa claus’ helper – make someone’s dreams come true’. as part of the
project, employees purchased and donated more than 1,500 christmas gifts for children under
the care of day care centres, orphanages and foster family group homes in different regions of
poland.



                                               455

in 2016, orlen volunteering initiatives attracted more than 2,000 volunteers, including
employees of the company and the service stations as well as their family members, who all
came together to complete almost 80 social projects and supported nearly 4,000 beneficiaries.

charitable orlen

in line with the charitable giving policy, the orlen group remains open to the world and people,
and is committed to responding where help is needed.

charity projects are pursued directly by orlen group companies, as well as through the orlen –
gift from the heart foundation and the anwil for włocławek foundation. they form an
important part of the company’s csr strategy. in our charity activities we focus on two priorities:
to improve the quality of life and health, and promote education and youth development.

a) charity activities of the orlen group
pkn orlen has pioneered support for local communities within the framework of cross-sectoral
cooperation, with a view to improving the quality of life in the areas where the company
operates. the programme is addressed mainly to local ngos that run innovative projects for local
communities, but a few years ago it was also opened up to individuals. this helped to foster
productive relationships with ngos, as well as local residents and authorities. the projects
pursued aim to improve the quality and standard of life, promote equal opportunities, and
establish partnerships. they support entrepreneurship based on capabilities and competencies.

the cross-sectoral cooperation project relies on the know-how provided by the undp (united
nations development programme). in płock, it is managed by the grant fund for płock
foundation launched by the płock municipal authorities, pkn orlen and basell orlen polyolefins.
the good neighbourhood grant fund for ostrów wielkopolski association pursues its goals in
a similar fashion.

the company also embarks on new projects. in 2016, pkn orlen became one of the sponsors of
the polish national foundation, whose goal is to promote and protect poland’s economy and
image. the company also sponsored world youth day, a religious, cultural and social event, with
our donations financing activities related to the work of volunteers and accessibility facilities for
the disabled.

in 2016, orlen group companies carried out charity activities in accordance with the adopted
rules. thirteen of them partnered with the orlen – gift from the heart foundation. their
donations were allocated to healthcare purposes, rehabilitation, social assistance, sports
activities, education and science.

particularly noteworthy are collaborative programmes carried out by multiple orlen group
companies under the auspices of the orlen – gift from the heart foundation, such as the fire
service assistance programme and a scholarship programme for talented children of orlen
group employees.

apart from providing financial support in cash, the orlen group also makes in-kind donations.
group companies help members of their closest environment by donating their own products or
quality equipment that is no longer used. for example, anwil supplies its beneficiaries with
fertilizers, and in 2016 also donated retired fire trucks. orlen upstream donated office furniture
to a medical facility and pkn orlen’s beneficiaries received a fire suppression agent and

                                                 456

computers.

b) customer involvement
in accordance with its csr strategy, pkn orlen strives to involve customers in charity initiatives.
since 2006, they have been offered the opportunity to donate vitay points to support foster
family group homes.

in 2016, members of the vitay programme donated over 10.5m points, and the proceeds were
used to provide school supplies to children from foster family group homes, finance their
rehabilitation, fund annual scholarships to the most talented ones, and equip all facilities with fire
protection equipment. by donating vitay points, customers help nurture the talents of children
under the care of foster family group homes and support their entry into adult life. to become
part of the campaign, they simply need to select the option ‘500 points for foster family group
homes’ from the vitay catalogue.the points are then converted into specific amounts and used
to finance the children’s needs.

since 2015, the vitay programme has also offered its members an opportunity to support
environmental initiatives. in 2016 alone, customers donated over 2.5m vitay points. the cash
equivalent of the points was allocated to finance animal care, treatment and rehabilitation for
eagles, and planting of trees in urban areas.

c) foundations
there are two foundations operating within the orlen group. the first is the orlen gift from
the heart foundation. established by pkn orlen in 2001, it is one of corporate foundations
with the longest presence in poland. in 2014, the anwil for włocławek foundation was set up by
anwil.

the activities of the orlen gift from the heart foundation are centered on a few specific
areas. the key programme, run since the foundation’s inception, seeks to promote foster
families in the form of foster family group homes. the broad range of activities in that area are
undertaken to improve awareness of this form of foster care and provide practical and financial
support. the foundation supports some 350 foster family group homes − almost half of all such
institutions in poland, as well as care and education facilities. they have over 2,500 children
under their care. the foundation also provides assistance to the most talented of those children
by offering scholarship programmes, and helps whole families by organising winter and summer
holiday recreational activities and providing them with short-term help in the form of donations.
foster parents are offered an opportunity to improve their qualifications during annual
conferences.

the foundation also runs scholarship programmes. in 2015, it operated six such programmes, in
addition to those addressed to children in foster family group homes and special scholarships.
a project that enjoys strong popularity on a local scale is ‘my above-average interests’ for
students of colleges and high schools in płock and its county. the ‘masters of chemistry”
scholarship is addressed towards the most talented students with outstanding performance in
hard sciences, in particular chemistry. the ‘life to the full’ programme supports paralympic
athletes, the best polish athletes with disabilities, and gold medallists from the 2012 summer
paralympic games in london. in 2016, it was joined by new paralympians, medallists at the
paralympic games in rio de janeiro. the scholarships are awarded to athletes whose success
demonstrates that overcoming disability barriers is possible.


                                                 457

another area of the foundation’s activity is safety issues, with assistance provided to institutions
having safety at the core of their mission. also, for several years the foundation has conducted
a social campaign ‘no’ to smoke, encouraging people to ensure safety at their own homes and
in their immediate environment.

the foundation also carries out many activities aimed at promoting culture, science and national
traditions. it grants support in the form of financial and in-kind donations and fuel cards chiefly to
educational and cultural institutions, parishes, ngos and municipal offices as well as interest
clubs organised by those institutions across poland, especially in the areas where orlen group
companies operate.

the foundation’s statutory activities include the co-financing of projects that promote sports and
physical fitness. many of these projects are addressed towards children and the youth. donations
have helped the foundation’s beneficiaries to organise sports camps, participate in games and
tournaments, and purchase sports equipment necessary for professional practice and sports
activities.

in line with the charitable giving policy, the orlen – gift from the heart foundation also
provides support to charity initiatives undertaken by orlen group companies, with a particular
focus on problems of local communities.

in 2016, the orlen – gift from the heart foundation celebrated its 15th anniversary, and
commemorated this fact by launching a new programme addressed at hospices. under the
programme, eight facilities put forward by pkn orlen employees received donations totalling
pln 100,000. the programme’s secondary goal is to promote volunteerism.

through the anwil for włocławek foundation, anwil provides support to many projects whose
overriding objective is to improve the quality of healthcare, safety services, education and sports.
since 2014, in line with its mission to support local initiatives in order to change the future of
włocławek, the foundation has offered assistance to a wide range of projects for the benefit of
the city’s inhabitants. it helps implement projects in various areas, including education,
healthcare, environmental protection, safety, sports, culture and arts. the foundation provides
assistance to business circles and initiatives designed to improve the economic growth of
włocławek. it particularly focuses on projects targeted at young people.

in 2004, the museum of oil and gas industry in bóbrka foundation was founded on the initiative
of pkn orlen, pgnig and stipnig. the foundation is involved in documenting the history of the
oil industry. thanks to regular donations and technical support, the museum is able to thrive,
offering modern multimedia forms of touring and collecting new exhibits.

social projects

in 2016, the focus of social projects was directed towards several areas.

one was the sponsorship of projects supporting national culture and protecting the national
heritage, and specifically initiatives promoting the art of cinematography, theatre, music and
literature. as a national company, pln orlen supported major polish institutions and cultural
projects, such as: the fryderyk chopin institute, national museum in warsaw, jan kiepura festival
in krynica-zdrój, and the film festival in gdynia. pkn orlen also partnered with the kamienica
theatre of warsaw.

                                                 458

another important area of social activity was education. as a leader in the petrochemical
industry, we apply our extensive expertise towards the promotion of education and knowledge of
science, especially chemistry. this involves participation in scientific initiatives (congresses,
conferences, competitions) designed to facilitate knowledge transfer and the initiation of
measures aimed at encouraging children and teenagers to learn and acquire new skills. to this
end, we helped to organise the next edition of the ‘my above-average interests’ scholarship
programme for the most talented teenagers in and around płock, as well as a series of scientific
conferences and seminars in cooperation with the płock branch of the warsaw university of
technology.

another strategic area of our social efforts was initiatives aiming to improve safety on polish
roads. as we operate in an area closely tied to the automotive industry, we have implemented
a number of initiatives to improve road safety. one of them is the ‘orlen safe roads’ campaign
launched in 2006. in 2016, we organised the ‘big driver’s license test’ in partnership with tvp,
the public television network. the project seeks to encourage proper behaviour, translating into
improved road safety. also, members of the vitay programme were invited to donate their points
for the financing of upgrades to pedestrian crossings located near educational facilities.

pkn orlen partnered with the mountain rescue organisation gopr, and implemented the
‘orlen for eagles’ programme designed to protect the polish eagle population. having in mind
the need to maintain a healthy work-life balance, the company joined the ‘two hours for the
family’ project.

pkn orlen also provided assistance to a number of initiatives related to national remembrance
and tradition, such as the ‘patria nostra’ history competition, targeted at junior and senior high
school students and seeking to promote polish history and foster patriotic values and behaviour.
pkn orlen also lent its support to the ‘guardian of memory’ project, which honours persons and
institutions who have made an outstanding contribution to preserving and restoring the memory
of important events in poland’s history. on a local scale, the company participated in the
‘indomitable soldiers of mazovia’ scientific conference.

we are also active in promoting the polish economy and popularising poland in the international
arena. pkn orlen was one of the sponsors of the ‘590 congress’, a platform for exchanging
ideas and experiences between specialists in business, science, politics and legislation. in an
effort to promote polish companies and polish products, we assisted in the implementation of
such projects as: ‘poland’s 200 largest companies’, ‘100% polish’, ‘i buy it because it’s polish’
and ‘poland’s compass’. with a view to popularising polish culture and arts, as well as to
establish positive relationships with our chinese partners, pkn orlen sponsored the 1st edition
of the ‘polish circles of art in china’ festival.

pkn orlen is strongly committed to pursuing efforts designed to counteract social exclusion and
promote equal opportunities, in particular with respect to the employment of people with
disabilities, children from disadvantaged families and people from the 55+ age group. one
expression of our involvement in helping the needy is our support for charitable social initiatives,
as well as those promoting rehabilitation for people with motor or intellectual disabilities through
sports. we continued our partnership with the integration foundation, working to help the
disabled, by sponsoring the ‘people without obstacles’ competition. pkn orlen also took part in
the 22nd edition of the płock orlen polish open, an international tennis tournament for disabled



                                                459

persons.

the company also actively collaborated with local communities, particularly in płock and other
places where it operates, these activities include dedicated partnership programmes such as
‘orlen for płock’, seeking to improve the quality of life of płock’s inhabitants. the programme
witnessed the continued implementation of projects in cooperation with the płock municipality
and ngos, and the initiation of a few projects with social partners, including ‘football holidays
with orlen, ‘safe holidays with orlen’, and free swimming lessons. pkn orlen also continued
partnerships under the grant fund for płock foundation, which supports projects dedicated to the
town’s residents and related to sports, social assistance and culture. the foundation is also
active in the area of streetwork in płock, helping children exposed to an increased risk of social
exclusion. in 2016, a large portion of our charitable, sponsorship and csr activities were focused
on supporting rescue services, the police, the fire service and the voluntary water rescue
service, as well as cultural institutions such as the płock symphonic orchestra, museum of
mazovia and the dramatic theatre, education was also supported through continued partnership
with the płock branch of the warsaw university of technology. pkn orlen also sponsored the
orlen wisła płock handball team and provided assistance to the wisła płock football team.

promoting sports and healthy living

being poland’s largest company, we feel responsible for supporting polish national sports and
teams, which bring so much joy and excitement to so many poles, and we fully appreciate the
importance of promoting amateur sports as well as stressing the importance of living healthy and
active lifestyles.

for many years now, pkn orlen has been supporting some of the sports disciplines closest to
poles’ hearts: field and track, volleyball and motor sports. the company is also involved in
promoting sports among children and teenagers by organising events addressed specifically
towards this target group.

key programmes and projects:

      orlen warsaw marathon – national running day, the largest and ‘fastest’ running event in
      poland
      verva street racing – largest motor sports event in this part of europe, 110,000 spectators
      in 2016 and a total of 500,000 participants over seven editions
      track and field sponsorship – pkn orlen is a patron of track and field, rio 2016 olympic
      medals (anita włodarczyk’s gold medal, piotr małachowski’s silver medal)
      orlen team – sponsorship of poland’s best cross-country rally team, k. przygoński 15th in
      the dakar rally, top 10 of the orlen team at the fia 2016 world cup, appearances in
      seven cross-country rallies
      volleyball sponsorship – one of the largest sponsorship projects in polish sports: indoor
      national teams of all age categories, beach volleyball national team, championship
      tournaments and social programmes
      sponsorship of orlen wisła płock – continued partnership with the handball team which
      successfully competes in domestic games (runner-up) and internationally (a regular in the
      champions league)
      sponsorship of wisła płock – partnering with a football team which was promoted to the top
      flight of polish football in the 2015/2016 season


                                               460

      verva activejet team – a sponsorship project for a cycling team (uci professional
      continental teams) synergising the efforts of pkn orlen and group companies from
      germany (star), the czech republic (benzina) and poland (orlen paliwa)

participation in the public debate

we have continued our proprietary platform for communicating and discussing the most
important social, economic and political issues – future fuelled by knowledge.

the overarching goal of this project is to trigger the transfer of knowledge, indicate possible
courses of action and identify specific solutions to complex problems. we pursue these goals by
such initiatives as organising conferences and panel discussions on various subjects, and
publishing comprehensive expert reports. in 2016, pkn orlen co-organised and actively
participated in debates, which included being part of the economic forum in krynica and the ‘590
congress’ in rzeszów.

conclusions formulated during the above events, the most important expert opinions and
summaries are presented on the future fuelled by knowledge website (ffbk.orlen.com/). the
website publishes comprehensive analytical reports on crucial issues and challenges in the
industry. one example is the ‘game of innovation’ report published in 2016.

an important element of the future fuelled by knowledge project is the blog of mr adam
czyżewski, pkn orlen’s chief economist. using this channel, the company’s expert explains, in
an easy to understand manner, complex macroeconomic processes and how they affect our daily
lives, fuel prices, stability of the economy, and the growth of the energy sector.

to reach a broader audience with its communication concerning the company and its activities
as part of future fuelled by knowledge, for the past four years the orlen group has been also
active on twitter. this corporate profile allows the company to comment on major economic and
industry developments in real-time, as well as sharing information concerning the day-to-day
operations of the orlen group.




                                              461

awards and distinctions
  top employer polska 2016
  title of the world’s most ethical company awarded to pkn orlen for the third consecutive
  time
  title of top employer poland awarded to pkn orlen for the fifth consecutive time
  orlen as poland’s most valuable brand according to rzeczpospolita daily
  title of global player 2016 for the president of the pkn orlen management board in the
  ‘leaders of the polish economy’ poll organised by gazeta bankowa
  first place for pkn orlen in the investor relations category of the ‘listed company of the
  year’ ranking compiled by puls biznesu
  pkn orlen announced the best company of the wig20 index by gazeta giełdy
  i inwestorów parkiet
  pkn orlen announced 2017 best corporation for fx management in central and eastern
  europe by the global finance magazine
  pkn orlen secured top spot in the ‘transparent company of the year 2016’ ranking
  organised by the institute of accountancy and taxes and gazeta giełdy i inwestorów
  parkiet
  pkn orlen named ambassador of the polish chemical industry by the polish chamber of
  the chemical industry
  first place for orlen in the service station category of the ‘most trusted brand’ survey
  held by my company
  first place for anwil in ‘the golden hundred of gazeta pomorska’ in the category of
  regional pillars: the best large company in terms of financial performance
  anwil included among the top 5 companies reporting the most impressive net profit
  improvement in 2016 in the ‘500 list’ of the largest polish businesses, compiled by the
  rzeczpospolita daily
  first place for anwil in the 2016 ranking of ‘companies with energy – polish export
  leaders’, in the category of large companies
  third place for orlen paliwa in the 14th edition of the ‘pearls of the polish economy’,
  a ranking of polish companies published by the polish market monthly
  pkn orlen and the płock branch of the warsaw university of technology distinguished for
  the best practices in business, education, and science by the editorial team of the nowy
  przemysł business monthly and wnp.pl web portal
  first place for anwil in the category of large companies as part of the ranking of
  ‘companies with energy 2016 – polish export leaders’ compiled by the w sieci weekly
  iks solino in eighth place in ‘the golden hundred of pomorze and kujawy’ ranking by
  gazeta pomorska

                                  hr and education:

  third place for unipetrol in the energy&gas&petrochemicals category of the ‘top
  employers’ ranking, compiled by the association of students and graduates
  sodexo employer of the year award for unipetrol, which ranked seventh among employers
  in the czech republic and second in the ústí region in the category of companies with less
  than five thousand staff
  title of reliable employer awarded to anwil for the second time
  title of ambassador of vocational education awarded to anwil by the mayor of włocławek


                                          462

anwil named a friend of the chemical faculty by the łódż university of technology

                              sales and logistics:

orlen service stations awarded the 2016 service star title in the following categories:
- catering at a service station – service station no. 4046 in poznań
- best premium service station operated by a fuel company – service station no. 4046 in
poznań
- dofo service station operated by a fuel company in southern poland – service station
no. 7546 in lesko
- motorway service area service station – service station no. 4403 baranów północ msa
first place for the flota programme, for the second time, in the ‘fleet awards poland’
competition, in the fuel cards category
poland’s first service station without barriers – orlen service station no. 682 at ul.
solidarności 100 in warsaw
polish trucker award for the orlen service stations
first place for the flota programme in the fleet derby 2016
pkn orlen awarded for logistics 2.0, the ‘cctv at the fuel terminal’ project, in the
‘leader 2015’ competition held by gazeta bankowa
superbrand 2016 title for benzina of the czech republic, an award granted to the best
brands on the market based on gfk’s nationwide survey
benzina included among the top 4 brands in the fuel sales category by czech top 100
distinction for benzina in the ‘business of the year 2016’ poll, for participation in
a consumer promotion with mastercard
medal at the autostrada-polska 2016 trade fair: orlen asfalt’s stand at the 22nd
international road construction fair was awarded a medal for its unique and innovative
display design
orlen asfalt named the leader of innovation in the ‘diamonds of the polish infrastructure’
competition, for its orbiton hima bitumens
the berlins liebling 2016 award for star service stations in germany, granted by the
berliner morgenpost publishing house for second place in the service stations category of
the ‘love brands’ ranking
distinction from handelsblatt, one of germany’s leading economic magazines, and the
yougov research agency: star service stations in germany among the top 3 in terms of
value for money in the service stations segment
a star service station in potsdam awarded with the topp station 2016 title by the
tankstelle trade journal
distinction for ventus nafta as one of the strongest in lithuania 2016 (by the creditinfo
credit bureau)

                            environmental protection:

pkn orlen distinguished in the ‘eco-responsibility in business’ competition
orlen oil placed among ten companies with the best environmental strategies supporting
the sustainable development of their products in a ranking compiled by gazeta finansowa

                                      safety:

title of technical safety leader awarded to pkn orlen by the ministry of development and


                                        463

the office of technical inspection
distinction for in research paper by jerzy szatkowski, h&s chief specialist at anwil, in the
44th nationwide working conditions improvement competition
badge of honour for its contribution to safety in the mining industry awarded to the head of
the operating division at orlen upstream

                                   procurement:

positive recertification by the chartered institute of purchasing & supply (cips) for orlen
upstream
the ‘procurement academy’ programme ranked third in the ‘procurement leader’
competition

                                         csr:

first place for pkn orlen in the ranking of socially responsible companies in the health
and society category, for ‘my above-average interests’, a scholarship programme for young
residents of płock, in the ‘i respond to poland’ competition
the golden csr leaf granted to pkn orlen for the fifth consecutive time by the polityka
weekly
pkn orlen as the winner in the csr strategy – large company category of the ‘charity
provider 2016’ competition held by the academy for the development of philanthropy
white csr leaf awarded to anwil for the second time by the polityka weekly and deloitte
charity leader title for pkn orlen in recognition of its policy of making charitable
donations
award for the orlen − gift from the heart foundation in the ‘responsible business
awards’ competition, in the non-profit organisations category
anwil named the ambassador of vocational education
best practices (8 csr initiatives) of anwil appreciated by the responsible business forum

                                sports/ marketing

first place for anita włodarczyk in the 82nd edition of the ‘sportsperson of the year’ poll
organised by przegląd sportowy and tvp; third place secured by piotr małachowski
anita włodarczyk and piotr małachowski awarded in ‘golden spikes’, a prestigious ranking
of polish athletics held since 1970
verva street racing 2016 – national automotive festival, awarded with two statuettes in
the ‘global eventex awards 2017’, a prestigious international competition, in the event
category; the event took first prize in the category of best sporting event and the grand
prix award, thus becoming the best event of 2016
orlen warsaw marathon – tomasz hopfer award in the event of the year category at the
running mass events gala
distinction for the nationwide campaign ‘poland! white and red’ in kreatury 2016, the
22nd edition of an independent creation competition
third place secured by paramo in the czech republic, in the creative advertising category,
based on the results of online voting held by strategy journal

                                       other:



                                         464

award by the warsaw stock exchange in the 10th edition of the ‘csr reports’ competition
for the orlen group 2015 integrated report
the orlen group 2015 integrated report with four prizes in ‘the best annual report’
competition:
- special award for the best integrated report
- distinction for the best, close to perfect, financial statements in the corporations category
- special distinction for the long-term commitment of the team to continual improvement of
the quality of financial statements
- the best of the best title granted to companies which have won the top award in ‘the
best annual report’ competition at least three times




                                          465

outlook 2017+
prepared in april 2017

from an empirical point of view related to oil market
scenarios, our outlook 2017+ remains broadly
unchanged what we presented last year. in response to
the latest news and developments that surprised the
market (like opec’s intervention or the effective date of
a cap on marine fuel sulfur content accelerated by five
years), we have slightly adjusted our projections of oil
pricing trends over the next five years.
we expect oil prices to average about usd 55 per barrel in 2017 and 2018. in the following years,
we believe that prices may accelerate upward in the wake of cuts in spending increases in
conventional upstream projects seen in 2015−2017. as the size of the cuts remains unknown,
we will not speculate on how fast oil prices are likely to rise in 2019−2021.

no new factors have emerged that we would have missed a year ago and that could impact on oil
supply and demand over the next 20 years. today we better understand the factors that we were
only aware of before and to some of them − specifically the advances in electric mobility and
digitisation − we now attach a greater weight. digitisation means electrification, therefore
we expect this factor to spur demand for electricity as consumers take on new habits and voice
new needs. the digitisation and electrification of public and private transport will add up to
a weakening demand for oil. demand for reliable electricity at stable prices will boost the appeal
of solar and nuclear energy sources, while the digital revolution and progress achieved in the
energy storage sector will pave the way for further developments in these primary energy
sources.

what has changed the most over the past year is how we view the oil market. attention has
shifted to the future of oil demand (which may shrink), pushing price issues to the sidelines. since
the effects of oil being phased out from the global energy mix are not clear to see 20 years from
now, the time horizon of scenario analyses has been extended by 15 years, to 2050. but the
horizon of strategic thinking extends even further. strategic decisions are increasingly dictated
by change scenarios, with the ‘business as usual’ approach generally viewed as outdated.
businesses still use it to communicate to the market their estimates of future returns on existing
assets over a 20-year horizon.

our outlook 2017+ differs from prior editions in that it contains no in-house scenarios. this is for
two principal reasons. no major revisions have been made to the possible scenarios until 2020,
which we discussed last year, or to the underlying price path assumptions. we refrain from
disclosing the numbers assumed in the change scenarios used to develop our strategy, which is
a common practice. further on in outlook 2017+, instead of numbers, we will discuss qualitative
changes in our approach to planning strategies and allocation decisions for the oil sector.




                                                466

oil market: change of perspective
from price paths to demand paths
the oil market can be viewed from various angles. until recently oil price paths were the focus of
attention, with movements in supply and demand seen through the lens of their impact on prices.
with china’s accession to the wto in late 2001, the sharp growth in demand became the most
powerful force driving the oil market, and the lagging supply put upward pressure on prices.
china needed more and more oil to power its booming industry, to fuel ships carrying growing
cargo volumes, etc. it was a time of prosperity for refiners, with profit margins rising. when the
financial crisis struck, the deep recession that followed, compounded by high oil prices, stifled
demand temporarily. refining margins shrank, and many refiners went bankrupt. but
skyrocketing oil prices, that had continued in an uptrend for years, provided an incentive to
increase production potential, something that the world failed to notice on time. the potential of
ground-breaking innovations was once again underestimated. at this point in history, new
technologies opened up oil deposits that no one had expected could ever be accessed, including
shale and deepwater reserves. as recently as 2010, it was widely believed that the oil supply
would soon run out again. much more recently, in mid-2014, it turned out that there were still
ample oil reserves. since then the market has been driven by the supply side. the prices went
down, the short-cycle production sources have quickly adapted to the low price environment, and
crude stocks have been built. these adjustments have brought the market back to a state of
balance and raised the question of what will happen next to oil prices.

there was no doubt that the price of usd 30−40 per barrel of oil was unsustainable and prices
would rebound. but predicting future price paths proved more controversial, for two reasons: the
ample global supply and the prospects of shrinking demand. global oil reserves have been
growing faster than output. in 1980, global oil production totalled 23 billion barrels. oil reserves
of 683 billion barrels would have lasted the world for 30 years in those circumstances. but in the
32 years between 1980 and 2012 global reserves reached 852 billion barrels. 2012 alone
witnessed an output of 31.5 billion barrels. under these conditions oil deposits holding 1,668
billion barrels of oil would last for 53 years. the total output in 1980−2015 reached 1,300 billion
barrels of oil. in 2016, production totalled 30 billion barrels, with reserves estimated at 2,092
billion barrels, enough to supply the world for the next 70 years. zaki yamani, saudi arabia’s oil
minister from 1962−1986, noted: “the stone age came to an end but not from a lack of stones
and the oil age will end, but not from a lack of oil”. indeed, demand for oil and liquid fuels from
oecd member countries has been in decline since 2005. when will oil demand start to shrink
globally? there are two opposing views on that. according to one of them, prevalent until
recently, the rumours of global demand peaking soon are exaggerated. the abundance of oil and
the progress in extraction technologies support low prices, but in the long term prices cannot be
lower than the marginal cost of extraction, or the break-even cost of producing three to four
million barrels of the most expensive crude per day required to cover demand. oil prices
remaining low for some time would raise demand. slightly more expensive oil reserves would
have to be tapped, and the industry would be back to business as usual. in those scenarios, oil
prices would be set by the marginal cost of production of approximately usd 70−80 per barrel (in
constant us dollars) in the long term, generally assumed to be 20 years. three years ago it was
believed that the price of oil would reach usd 100 per barrel in the long term, but the price
expectations were revised downward year by year, reflecting improved production efficiency.

the other view, which has received much attention of late, predicts the end of the dominant role


                                                467

of oil in transport and the end of oil as a power generation fuel (outside the oecd, as oecd
countries already went through this process after the oil shocks of the 1970s and 1980s).
although more oil will be consumed as feedstock by the petrochemical and chemical industries,
by 2050 overall global demand for crude oil and liquid fuels could shrink by as much as one-third
relative to current levels. shrinking demand means no need to extract more expensive oil and
the balance price would drop far below the level assumed in the scenarios of rising demand.

a central feature of publications and scenarios envisaging shrinking oil demand is not the prices
but demand and negative demand drivers. electric mobility is coming to the fore, but looming in
the background is a much more powerful force − the progressing and all-pervasive digital
revolution, which has been hailed as the fourth industrial revolution although its impact will reach
far beyond traditional industry. in those scenarios, oil prices have a big question mark hovering
over them as the only available metric is the marginal cost of production, which itself depends on
the geology of deposits and the extraction technology available. considering geological factors
and e&p costs, declining oil demand could bring down the price per barrel of oil to a level as low
as usd 40 in the long term. the problem is that other factors also come into play – some oil
reserves that would be the cheapest to produce cannot be accessed for geopolitical reasons.
more importantly, the shrinking-demand and low-price scenarios have price cycles embedded in
them. the mechanics are described below. the life cycle of production and refining assets runs
into decades, typically multiplied by digits above five. the mere prospect of oil demand falling in
the wake of a technological revolution means that some of the existing assets will become
stranded, weighing on the market value and spending capabilities of oil companies, and affecting
their propensity to invest in production and refining assets. this trend is further compounded by
production lost as a result of some upstream projects being postponed in the last two years due
to depressed prices, with the scale of output reduction as yet unknown. when we confront
reduced supply with projected demand expected to rise sharply over the next five years (by an
average of 1.3 mmbd a year) before it starts to fall, this can be read as a signal that oil prices
could rebound in two to three years. if prices increase, production will become profitable, so
upstream project spending assumptions in ‘business as usual’ scenarios should be raised. but
upstream firms know that demand will slow down over the next 20 to 30 years. where will the oil
price go then? will companies in the upstream industry still be ready to invest despite the
prospects of shrinking demand? or will they make do with profits from high oil prices for as long
as there is demand? no wonder scenarios predicting a shift away from oil in the transport
industry are silent about future oil price paths. the scenarios envisaging a decline of the oil
industry have departed from prices as the key driver of capital allocation decisions anyway.

extending the horizon
economists define a horizon based on the time required for the production potential to change. in
services, this takes months, but in heavy industry the shift could take over a decade. in the case
of the fuel and energy sectors, the short-term horizon is up to five years. defining the long term
is much more complex. if we focus on changes in production potential resulting from the
investment in available technologies, the long-term horizon would range from between 15 to
20 years. this is long enough for additional fuel and energy output from new projects (e.g. power
stations) to reach the market and for consumers to replace old systems and equipment (heating
systems, vehicles, etc.). however, twenty years is much too short a period to apply nascent
innovations on a mass scale and change the rules of the game in the industry (efficient energy
storage systems, electric cars, etc.). it is precisely this overly short time perspective, which is
insufficient to capture the effects of revolutionary shifts in the fuel and energy sectors, that

                                                468

explains

scenarios for the oil business
the purpose of scenarios developed by oil companies is twofold: to provide a basis for estimating
future earnings in terms of spending capacity (these are shared with the market) and to set the
direction of capital allocation (these remain a business secret until a project is sanctioned). the
latter requires a much longer time horizon that the former, given the life cycle of production,
refining, petrochemical, and power assets. for reasons including the uncertainty of the future,
accelerating technology advancement and the emergence of various game changers, allocation
scenarios are intended as a safeguard against grave mistakes (such as investing in assets which
will have to be written off after two to four decades) rather than as a tool to optimise decision-
making. allocation scenarios materially differ in the assessment of future price and demand
paths. some scenarios are viewed as more viable than others. companies indirectly use the
knowledge of allocation scenarios when communicating with the market, by disclosing demand
and price projections determined on the basis of the paths assumed in the considered scenarios,
weighted by the probability of their being met within the next 20 years. averaging out the
demand and price paths mitigates the projection error.

market communication underpinned by ‘business as usual’ scenarios
typically, a time horizon of 15 to 20 years is long enough for fuel and energy companies to
estimate future returns on assets in operation today and on new investment in existing
technologies, particularly after accounting for the time value of money. knowing that companies
are reluctant to share details of their investment strategies before any go-ahead decisions are
made, no wonder that long-term outlook reports of global fuel and energy majors do not go
beyond the 15- to 20-year horizon, and show smooth continuation of price and demand paths for
energy commodities. for instance, the latest bp energy outlook, which “presents the most likely
path for energy demand and the evolution of the fuel mix over the next 20 years” and “shines
a light on the key trends and forces that are likely to shape global energy markets over the next
20 years”, does not mention an oil demand peak. what it does say is that “a simple extrapolation
of these trends beyond 2035 would suggest that oil demand may start to decline during the
mid-2040s”. exxonmobil takes a similar stance in its outlook for energy: journey to 2040. even
though its time horizon is five years longer, the outlook predicts that “oil will continue to play
a leading role in the energy mix, driven by demand in transportation and feedstock for the
chemical industry”.

the quoted outlook reports are multifaceted and discuss the risks and uncertainties surrounding
the base-case trend paths. they examine mega-trends and touch upon structural shifts which are
taking place across the global energy sector but are too gradual and too moderate to change the
rules of the game. but it would be a mistake to think that the picture of the future of the fuel and
energy sectors painted in bp and exxonmobil’s outlook reports is used by the companies to guide
their capital allocation decisions.

strategic decisions underpinned by change scenarios
the situation looks very different when it comes to capital allocation. given the long life cycle of
oil assets, the time horizon adopted in setting the directions of long-term growth must extend far
beyond the next two or three decades. only then is it possible to discern the risks associated with
the continued use of the existing business models, and gain the time required to make the
necessary adjustments.


                                                469

the tightening of the climate change regime (like the recent decision of the international marine
organisation to shorten the time allowed to implement the cap reduction on the content of sulfur
in marine fuel from 3.5% to 0.5%) is by no means the most powerful driver of the structural
transformation of the global energy sector − the progress in digitisation is, further reinforced by
technological improvements and new business models that go with the process. the combination
of technological, social and economic changes brought on by digitisation has been dubbed the
fourth industrial revolution, although it is reaching far beyond the industrial sector. since
anything digital is also electric, the fourth industrial revolution is an electric revolution as well,
with far-reaching implications for the energy and transport sectors. the pace of transition may
suddenly accelerate as the revolution is also having an impact on the demand side of the market,
determining which primary energy sources we choose and how we use energy. to illustrate this
point, google consumes five terawatt hours of electricity annually to power its data centres, an
equivalent of the electricity used by all of san francisco in a year. over 80% of the electricity
consumed by google comes from renewable sources. the use of renewables is driven by
business rationale − the cost per unit of energy is easy to predict and, consisting mainly of
depreciation charges, it is insensitive to cyclical fluctuations. and since electricity is the largest
cost item, this helps to keep overall operating costs down. therefore, a critical factor considered
by google before choosing a site for a new data centre facility is the accessibility of renewable
energy sources.

non-business scenarios bring change to the fore
research organisations from outside the business community take an entirely different approach
to energy transition and scenario analysis. the world’s most respected energy think-thank is the
international energy agency (iea), bringing together oecd member countries. its annual world
energy outlook is an extensive report containing alternative scenarios for the global energy
sector. one of them is the rigid 450 scenario, setting out a pathway to limit global warming to
2°c above pre-industrial levels by 2040. in the 450 scenario, global oil demand peaks in 2020,
and then moves into a decline out to 2040, when it reaches 70% of the current consumption
levels. few assumptions made in the scenario have actually been met, and the iae itself treats it
as a point of departure for developing other scenarios, which assume a very slow decline in oil
demand.

the role of passenger cars in shaping oil demand
the running theme of the international and domestic debate on the future of oil and liquid fuels
last year was electric mobility, and with good reason. the future of oil largely depends on how
long it will retain its dominant position as the primary fuel source for transport. the world today
consumes 96 mmbd of crude oil and liquid fuels, with the transport sector accounting for
56 percent of that, equivalent to 54 mmbd. demand from the industrial sector as the second
largest consumer is three times lower, at just above 18 mmbd (19 percent of global demand).
secondly, transport relies heavily on oil, with 90 percent of the energy that fuels the sector
derived from petroleum. central to electric mobility are light-duty vehicles (ldv), which consume
63 percent of the total crude oil and liquid fuels used in transport (34 mmbd). heavy vehicles
account for slightly less than 10 mmbd (18 percent), with the other 10 mmbd is consumed
outside the road transport sector: 10 percent by air transport, 6 percent by maritime transport,
1.5 percent by rail transport, and 3.5 percent by other modes of transport. the largest proportion
of light vehicles are passenger cars, consuming 19 mmbd of fuels (35 percent of total
consumption in the transport sector). this category of vehicles is most heavily influenced by
consumers and their transport choices, thus being the most likely electrification and digitisation

                                                 470

target. electrification is the replacement of cars with traditional combustion engines by vehicles
powered by an electric power train. digitisation may reinforce the process, for instance through
car sharing (electric cars will be less expensive for users, transport demand will rise, vehicle
numbers will remain unchanged or rise, and the driving range will double). in the period of
transition, hybrid vehicles are gaining prominence, fitting well into the world of combustion-
engine vehicles. some use an electric motor in addition to a traditional engine, others use
a combustion engine as a back-up range extender in vehicles with electric drive systems. but the
true breakthrough comes with battery electric vehicles (bevs), popular particularly with
technology enthusiasts and devoted environmentalists. norway is an example that electric cars
can be deployed on a mass scale if appropriately dense charging and maintenance infrastructure
is available and incentives, both financial and non-financial, are put in place to encourage electric
car adoption. unfortunately, the norwegian system is extremely costly and therefore cannot be
easily replicated in other countries. so, when can we expect a revolution in car transport that will
dethrone crude oil as the main fuel? as it turns out, a lot depends on the car makers who, like
american tesla, have taken matters into their own hands and are planning to build a network of
fast-charging stations along europe’s motorways. the global car fleet totalled 0.9 billion vehicles
in 2015, including 1.2 million hybrids and evs, and 680,000 pure electric cars (bevs). due to the
long service life of a passenger vehicle, averaging 20 years, roughly 5 percent of the fleet is
replaced every year. considering the pace of growth in global fleet numbers and ev penetration,
the share of electric cars in the global fleet by 2035 is all but impressive. bp’s outlook puts the
number at 6 percent, with the related reduction in oil demand not exceeding 1.2 mmbd. nothing
to worry about. but the latest scenarios of academic centres researching changes in the energy
and transport sectors predict that by 2050 electric vehicles will account for 70 percent of the
global passenger car fleet, with the world’s demand for oil expected to shrink by over 24 mmbd.
it is interesting to note that according to the same scenarios, by 2030 electric cars will account
for 5 to 9 percent of the global fleet. if we do not look far enough ahead, we may fail to notice
a potential threat. a growing share of solar and nuclear sources in the global power mix (30
percent and 25 percent respectively) will significantly contribute to reducing carbon emissions.
dieter helm, a british economist and specialist on changes in the global energy sector, in his
latest book under a telling title ‘burn out - the endgame for fossil fuels’, argues that the key
drivers of change will be technological innovations and business, rather than governments or
regulations aimed at combating climate change. economic policies may keep these processes
under control, but innovation support tools will play a greater role than instruments for
environmental and climate protection.

orlen group’s scenarios
projections for crude prices and product and refining margins are just one of a number of
deliverables of scenario analyses, and not even the most important one. the scenarios are not
meant to foresee the actual course of events, but rather to prepare the company for building
sustainable growth strategies which will stay up-to-date regardless of the actual developments.
a well-organised scenario analysis will help avoid the four ‘deadly sins’ of strategic planning,
namely: (i) a tendency to hold on to earlier assumptions no matter what, (ii) optimism dominating
over realism, (iii) illusion of control over the course of events, and (iv) attaching too much weight
to recent information. therefore, it is very important to identify the differentiating factors
between the scenarios. each scenario tells a logical story about the crude oil market, which may
come true in the future. taking a purely mathematical approach we may come to a conclusion
that those stories are countless. however, building alternative scenarios only makes sense when

                                                471

we can tell several very different stories, which may potentially come to life in the future and
change the course of events in the oil market; and their number is much smaller. the key to
building such scenarios are the most relevant problems which will determine the future of the
global oil market and generate alternative solutions, depending on how they are addressed.

during the last strategic review, we examined threats and opportunities that may come with the
fourth industrial revolution. strategic analyses of this sort focus on identifying ‘black swans’,
understood as a confluence of factors that may precipitate technological and social change
affecting our current areas of activity to the extent that this may derail our business. black swans
are events with a low probability and high impact. new technologies to produce and use energy
are black swans. or the shale revolution, which caused oil price falls, sidelined opec’s control
over prices and is now effectively keeping prices down. once the relevant areas have been
identified, a change strategy is analysed to clarify the direction we should adopt to exploit the
shifts to our advantage and to verify our ability to do so at the right scale and time. strategic
analysis, investigating more and less probable scenarios, results in a road map for growth,
identifying the areas we should exit and the directions we should follow. no company will divulge
the findings of its strategic analyses. what the official strategy brings to light are the expected
returns under analysed scenarios of change occurring in the external environment, or in other
words the probability-weighted average of returns. this approach makes outlook reports
published by companies similar to ‘business as usual’ scenarios and is safe as a method of
estimating expected returns on assets, as weighting eliminates extreme scenarios and mitigates
the risk of error in price path projections.

the next five years: waiting for oil prices to rise
since we worked on our first outlook in march 2015, the oil market has rebalanced. opec is also
back with interventions intended to prevent prices from falling again. recovering prices
prompted growth in unconventional production in the us which is characterised by price
elasticity, curbing the potential for further increases over the next year or two. accordingly,
we expect oil prices to hover around usd 55 per barrel in 2017 and 2018. current market
developments are being closely watched by opec, considering the viability of further
interventions. the cartel wants to see the price of crude at above usd 50 per barrel, but below
usd 60, a level which would trigger a rise in new conventional upstream projects, leading to price
drops in the longer run. as global economic growth is accelerating and oil demand is expected to
rise at a fast pace of around 1.6−1.7 mmbd in 2017−2018 and 1.3−1.4 mmbd in 2017−2021 on
average, the international energy agency predicts oil prices are likely to grow more in three to
four years. this view is supported by the large scale of conventional upstream projects planned
for launch in 2015 and 2016 but cancelled or postponed as a result of low oil prices. the
mismatch between supply and growing demand was mentioned in our previous outlook reports
as a risk factor potentially speeding up growth in oil prices. even today it is difficult to predict the
pace of that growth, so we decided not to publish any price assumptions for 2019−2021 in our
strategy.

over the past two years, oil market movements have been in line with expectations, although
market adjustments have been slower than we had expected. no new factors have emerged
outside the realm of policy (which is always relevant as a risk factor) that would have come as
a surprise and prompted major revisions to expectations for the next five years due to a high
degree of uncertainty. we will not even try to guess what oil prices are going to be in the future,
because in the commodities sector like ours what matters more is the position on the refining


                                                  472

and petrochemical cost curve in the region and globally, and an adequate financial buffer, as
these factors determine our resilience to unexpected movements in prices and margins.

in this context, the regulatory change to marine fuel specification requirements will significantly
impact oil prices and product margins over the next five years. the international maritime
organisation resolved to accelerate the implementation of new bunker fuel quality rules by five
years. as of january 1st 2020, the sulfur content of marine fuels used worldwide will be capped at
0.5% instead of the current 3.5%. the change itself is no surprise, but it was originally planned
for 2025. the unexpected decision to implement the new rules five years earlier is bound to have
major implications for shipowners and refiners, with strong volatility of oil and petroleum product
prices (margins) expected around the implementation date. it is difficult to predict how shippers
and refiners will adapt to the new regime.

the long term: look far ahead and expect the unexpected
moving on to the long-term horizon, worthy of note are major revisions to growth prospects for
the energy and oil sectors that were made during the year − the outlook horizon has been
extended to provide sufficient time for the outcomes of global economic and social mega-trends
and new energy technologies to materialise. as the energy sector stands out from other
industries for the long service life of its supply-side assets (power stations, refineries) and
energy-consuming systems and equipment (vehicles, home heating systems), as well as for high
equipment replacement costs, the global consequences of even far-sweeping changes are
impossible to see within a 20-year time horizon. at least 30 or 40 years are needed for that.
extending the time horizon is nothing new, as this is the time horizon commonly adopted by
energy companies when calculating returns on key investment projects. anyone who has ever
had to deal with large-scale capital projects knows that energy price paths are an input to
a project’s economic analysis. but where to look for energy price projections when we are dealing
with scenarios involving technological breakthroughs?

intuition has proven a much better decision-making tool than rational calculation models for
many business processes, for instance in setting the direction of capital investment allocation,
which should factor in the far-reaching effects of today’s innovations that are bound to drive
change in the long term. moving your business on new tracks of innovation is a big task that
cannot be accomplished if you do not trust expert intuition. as data on innovation projects is
incomplete, it is impossible to perform economic analysis and estimate project costs or future
revenue streams. new business projects are so unique that they cannot be subject to rational
evaluation as the basis for the selection process. the project owner can only rely on its ‘gut
feeling’. in the world of conventional projects, basing your decision on intuition alone would be
considered a manifestation of economic irrationality and mismanagement. but innovation
projects belong to a world where relying on your intuition is the norm. simply because there is no
other choice.

author of outlook 2017+:
adam czyżewski, ph.d.
chief economist, pkn orlen




                                               473

contact


 pkn orlen s.a.                      warsaw office
        chemików 7, 09-411 płock            bulding senator bielańska 12, 00-085 warszawa


        + 48 24 256 00 00                   + 48 22 778 00 00


        + 48 24 365 00 00                   + 48 24 367 70 00


        + 48 24 367 70 00


         www.orlen.pl



 press office                        investor relations office

        + 48 22 77 80 091                   + 48 24 256 81 80


        + 48 22 77 80 109                   + 48 24 367 77 11


        + 48 22 77 80 110                    ir@orlen.pl


        + 48 24 256 92 92


        + 48 24 256 92 93


         media@orlen.pl



questions and comments relating to the corporate social responsibility (csr) may be addressed
to:

social sponsorship and corporate social responsibility team
barbara.tecza@orlen.pl

integrated data coordinator:

katarzyna krzywicka
corporate communication office
katarzyna.krzywicka@orlen.pl


                                             474

czech republic

 unipetrol, a.s.

     na pankráci 127, 140 00 praha 4


      +42 225 001 444


      +42 225 001 447


       www.unipetrol.cz



lithuania

 orlen lietuva

     akcinė bendrovė "orlen lietuva” juodeikiai, 89467 mažeikių r., lietuva


     +370 443 9 21 21


     +370 443 9 25 25


     www.orlenlietuva.lt



germany

 orlen deutschland gmbh

      kurt- wagener - straße 7, 25337 elmshorn


      +49 [0] 4121 | 47 50 - 0


      +49 [0] 4121 | 47 0 - 4 30 00


      www.orlen-deutschland.de



canada



                                               475

orlen upstream canada ltd.

   suite 400, 850 – 2nd street sw calgary, alberta t2p 0r8


   403 265-4115


   403 232 8463


    www.orlenupstream.ca




                                            476

glossary
a
acetone
on organic compound, the simplest aliphatic ketone; a popular solvent widely used for industrial
and household applications, including the production of pharmaceuticals, colourings, paints,
varnishes, and cleaning products; it is also often used as an ingredient in nail polish remover

act on special rights vested in the minister competent for the
state treasury
the act on special rights vested in the minister competent for the state treasury and how those
rights should be exercised at certain companies or groups of companies operating in the
power, crude oil and gas fuels sectors, dated march 18th 2010 (dz.u. no. 65, item 404)

adr
american depository receipt = certificate issued by an american bank representing a share of
a foreign stock that the bank holds in trust but that is traded on an american stock exchange.

agm
the annual general meeting

ambient concentration
the amount of windborne dust or gaseous substances, often transported over large distances, in
a given volume of air. such pollutants are mostly products of fuel combustion or industrial
processes

ammonium nitrate
an inorganic chemical compound and universal nitrogen fertiliser

alkylation
refinery process in pkn orlen, namely that olefin and paraffin fractions are merged in order to
produce high-octane gasoline component (alkylate). the process is run on alkylation installation
in the presence of hydrofluoric acid

assets turnover
net revenues/average balance of assets

ambient concentration
the amount of windborne dust or gaseous substances, often transported over large distances, in
a given volume of air. such pollutants are mostly products of fuel combustion or industrial
processes




                                               477

act on special rights vested in the minister competent for the
state treasury
the act of march 18th 2010 on special rights vested in the minister competent for the state
treasury and how those rights should be exercised at certain companies or groups of companies
operating in the power, crude oil and gas fuels sectors (dz.u. no. 65, item 404)

b
barrel
unit of liquid volume used mainly in the oil industry. 1 barrel of crude oil (1 bbl) = 42 american
gallons = 158.96832 l.
benzene
an organic chemical compound and the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon; used in the chemical and
pharmaceutical industries to produce plastics, synthetic fibres, colourings, pharmaceuticals,
detergents, and pesticides, and in the synthesis of such important chemical compounds as
aniline, phenol and acetone
big data
this tool provides advanced analytics of available data to enable us to tailor our offering, prepare
effective promotional campaigns, and segment service stations more practically (in terms of price
and offering).
bioesters
methyl esters of higher fatty acids produced from vegetable oils or animal fats. used as a bio-
component for diesel fuel or as a fuel for cars with diesel engines. meets the quality standards set
for the biofuel in the pn en 14214. applicable both in poland and other european union markets.
bioethanol
ethanol derived from biomass or biodegradable waste
boe
barrel of oil equivalent
biochemical oxygen demand (bod)
a conventional measure indicating the quantity of oxygen needed during the oxidation of organic
and/or inorganic compounds by microorganisms (aerobic bacteria). water and effluent samples
are tested for five days in the temperature of 20°c to measure how much oxygen is consumed in
the process. the test indirectly indicates the content of biodegradable organic matter in the
sample. bod is used to measure the quality of water and treated wastewater
biofuel and biocomponent nit
(national indicative target) – a minimum share of biofuels and biocomponents in fuels in a given
year to be ensured by relevant entities, chiefly oil companies supplying fuels on the market
brent/urals differential
the difference between the price of the two crudes calculated according to the following formula:
med strip - ural rdam (ural cif rotterdam)
butadiene
a gaseous organic compound. used in the production of synthetic rubber. butadiene is used in


                                                478

the production of various kinds of synthetic rubber and latex, polybutadiene rubber, liquid
polybutadiene, and abs thermoplastics
c
c1 and c3 heavy fuel oils
c1 heavy fuel oil is a mixture of heavy and light components obtained by way of secondary and
straight-run processing of crude oil. c1 heavy fuel oil is burned in central heating boilers, steam
generators, industrial furnaces and used in industrial processes. c3 heavy fuel oil is a mixture of
hydrocarbons obtained through straight-run and secondary refining of crude oil. it is burned in
central heating boilers, steam generators, industrial furnaces and used in industrial processes
capex
capital expenditure
catalyst
substance, which accelerates (initiates) the expected chemical reaction.
catalyst market
the bond market of the warsaw stock exchange operated on the wse and bondspot trading
platforms
cee
central and eastern europe
ccgt plant in płock
a 600 mwe combined cycle gas turbine plant to be constructed in płock. a key part of the
project will be deployment of an advanced gas turbine technology with one of the highest
efficiency ratings available on the market (h-class)
chemical oxygen demand (cod)
a conventional measure indicating the quantity of oxygen (expressed in mg/l) consumed from
the oxidising agent (potassium dichromate, k2cr2o7) during the oxidation of organic and some
inorganic (e.g. sulfites, sulfides, iron (ii), ammonia) compounds found in wastewater to the
highest level of oxidation possible under given conditions. cod is used as a measure of water
and wastewater pollution
co2 emission allowances
property rights recognised as intangible assets, which are not subject to amortisation (due to
high residual value) but are tested for impairment
commercial companies code
the commercial companies code of september 15th 2000 (dz.u. of 2013 no. 0, item 1030, as
amended)
codo
company-owned dealer-operated service station
concawe
(conservation of clean air and water in europe) – an association of oil companies. concawe’s
projects provide data on the impact of the european oil industry on the natural environment and
help companies implement appropriate technical measures to mitigate the harmful influence of
chemical substances on people and the environment

                                                479

cracking
thermal or catalytic conversion of heavy or more complex hydrocarbons into light products and
coke. which increases the yields of light products from crude oil.
credit rating
an evaluation of an entity’s relative ability to meet its financial obligations, including the payment
of interest and preferred dividends, repayment of principal, satisfaction of insurance claims, and
performance of obligations towards trading partners. credit ratings enable investors to assess the
likelihood of receiving returns due on their investments
csr
corporate social responsibility is understood as a management strategy and approach to
business which aims to build positive long-term relations rooted in mutual understanding of
expectations and respect towards the broad business environment
current liquidity
current assets/short-term liabilities
d
denox flue gas denitrification unit/technology
the selective catalytic reduction technology used at the chp plant to reduce nitrogen oxides in
flue gas to molecular nitrogen in order to meet the required emission standards

distillation
method of physical separation of liquid mixtures. which uses the phenomenon of differences in
boiling temperatures of particular components in the mixture undergoing distribution.

dofo
dealer-owned franchise-operated service stations

dividend
the portion of a company’s net profit paid to its shareholders per each share

dividend payment date
the date on which dividend is paid to a company’s shareholders

dividend record date
the date as at which the list of shareholders entitled to receive dividend for a given financial year
is determined. only those holding shares on that date are entitled to receive dividend for a given
financial year

e
e&p
exploration and production




                                                 480

ebi system
the electronic information base administered by the warsaw stock exchange

ebit
operating profit

ebitda
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation

eii (energy intensity index) according to solomon’s methodology
a benchmark for comparing the energy efficiency of refineries

enterprise risk management system
a key tool providing information on risks and effectiveness of their management to implement
strategic and operational objectives

epca
(european petrochemical association) – an international non-commercial organisation based in
brussels which caters to the global community of petrochemical producers, including their
suppliers, customers and service providers. in the oil industry, epca provides a platform to meet,
exchange ideas, transfer learning, and serves as a think tank challenging the status quo. epca
operates for more than 700 member companies from 53 different countries

ert
(european round table of industrialists) – an organisation consisting of over 50 ceos of european
industrial companies, founded in 1983

esg criteria
(environmental, social, governance) – factors used to evaluate the non-financial performance of
companies, states and other organisations. the criteria are composed of three elements: e –
environmental, s – social responsibility and g – governance. their main function is to enable
investors to compare alternative investment opportunities through analysis of the three
parameters

ethylene
(iupac name: ethene) is a hydrocarbon which has the formula c2h4 or h2c=ch2. it is a colorless
flammable gas with a faint "sweet and musky" odour when pure. it is the simplest alkene (a
hydrocarbon with carbon-carbon double bonds). ethylene is widely used in the chemical industry,
and its worldwide production (over 150 million tonnes in 2016) exceeds that of any other organic
compound. much of this production goes toward polyethylene, a widely used plastic containing
polymer chains of ethylene units in various chain lengths. ethylene is also an important natural
plant hormone, and is used in agriculture to force the ripening of fruits. ethylene's hydrate is
ethanol.




                                               481

euribor
(euro interbank offered rate) – an interest rate for interbank loans offered on the interbank
market in the eurozone

eu ets
the eu emissions trading system, a community market for trading in co2 emission allowances

ets system
enterprise risk management system a key tool providing information on risks and effectiveness
of their management to implement strategic and operational objectives

f
fertilizers europe
an association of europe’s largest fertiliser manufacturers

financial leverage
net debt/equity x 100%

g
general directorate for environmental protection
(generalna dyrekcja ochrony środowiska, gdoś) – an institution responsible for the
implementation of the environmental protection policy within the scope of the management of
environmental protection activities (including natura 2000 sites) and control of investment
projects. it also carries out tasks designed to prevent and repair damage to the natural
environment

gdr
global depositary receipt = security issued outside of poland by the depositary bank in relation
to shares

gross profit margin
profit before tax / revenue x 100%

glycols
the simplest dihydroxy aliphatic alcohols. ethylene glycol is used in the production of polyesters
(plastics, fibres and resins) and antifreezing formulations (as a 40-62% aqueous solution). glycols
are also used as solvents, plasticisers and ingredients of explosive materials

gudron hydrodesulphurisation unit (gho)
a refining unit where the vacuum residue from the fractional distillation unit is processed into
lighter fractions and where the vacuum residue is prepared, through hydrodesulfurization, for
combustion at the chp plant




                                                482

g7 turbine generator set
a 70 mwe pass-out and condensing turbine generator set installed in the chp plant’s existing
structure to increase its generation potential

h
high-performance cogeneration
the production of electricity or mechanical energy and heat in cogeneration what allows savings
of primary energy used in cogeneration unit in amount not lower than 10% in comparison to
production of electricity and heat in separated systems or in cogeneration unit of installed
electric capacity below 1 mw in comparison to production of electricity and heat in separated
systems.

hydrocarbons
organic compounds made of carbon and hydrogen. crude oil and natural gas are mixtures of
hydrocarbons.

hydrocracking
cracking of hydrocarbon raw materials in the presence of hydrogen. this process raises the
efficiency of light products from crude oil.

hydrodesulphurization
the process of removing sulfur compounds in the raw material by contact with hydrogen at the
catalyst bed under high temperature and pressure.

i
impairment losses
impairment losses on non-current assets recognised in accordance with ias 36 impairment of
assets

inactive employees
employees inactive due to long-term absence, i.e. on unpaid leaves, maternity leaves, childcare
leaves, and parental leaves, or receiving rehabilitation benefits or absent due to military service

industrial emission directive (ied)
directive 2010/75/eu of the european parliament and of the council on industrial emissions

inventory turnover
average amount of inventories/net revenues x 365 days

inventory valuation
lifo adjustment

k


                                                483

kpi
(key performance indicators) – financial and non-financial (e.g. downstream) indicators used to
measure the progress of objectives in an organisation

l
libor
(london interbank offered rate) – an interest rate for interbank loans offered on the interbank
market in london
liabilities turnover
average amount of trade liabilities. gross /cost of goods sold x 365 days
lifo-based ebitda
reported 2014 ebitda + inventory valuation
light fuel oils
mixtures of petroleum-based hydrocarbons containing 9-25 coal atoms per molecule. light fuel
oil can be used to power vehicles and for heating purposes
lpg
(liquefied petroleum gas) – a mixture of liquefied hydrocarbons, consisting primarily of propane
and butane, and containing a small amount of propene, butene and c5 hydrocarbons. lpg is used
as cooking, heating and engine fuel
m
mandatory stocks
legal regulations on mandatory stocks of crude oil or fuels (excluding lpg) that have to be
observed by companies and traders operating on the polish market

metathesis unit
a unit designed to increase annual propylene production at the płock plant to 550,000 tonnes

med strip
brent crude oil quotation.

model downstream margin
calculated according to the following formula: revenue (90.7% products = 22.8% gasoline +
44.2% diesel oil + 15.3% heavy fuel oil + 1.0% sn 150 + 2.9% ethylene + 2.1% propylene +
1.2% benzene + 1.2% px) minus costs (100% of feed = 6.5% brent crude + 91.1% urals crude
+ 2.4% natural gas)

model olefin margin
it is calculated by the following formula: revenue (100% of products = 0.85*ethylene*54% +
0.2*propylene*28% + 0.84*glycols*9% + 0.81*butadiene*6% + 0.8*ethylene oxide*3%) less
costs (100% of feedstock = 100% kerosene); product prices based on market prices.




                                                484

model petrochemical margin
calculated according to the following formula: revenue from sales of products (98% products =
44% hdpe + 7% ldpe + 35% pp homo + 12% pp copo) minus costs (100% of feed = 75% crude
oil + 25% ls vgo); based on market prices, contract prices

model refining margin
calculated according to the following formula: revenue from sales of products (93.5% products =
36% gasoline + 43% diesel oil + 14,5% heavy fuel oil) minus costs (100% of feed: crude oil and
other feedstock); total feed calculated based on brent crude prices on the spot market

monomers
molecules of the same type or number of different kind of compounds characterize not very high
molecular weight. which can form polymers during polymerization reaction.

mwig40
a stock index comprising 40 medium-sized companies listed of the wse main market

mandatory stocks
legal regulations on mandatory stocks of crude oil or fuels (excluding lpg) that have to be
observed by companies and traders operating on the polish market

n
natural gas liquids
hydrocarbons in the liquid state, derivated from natural gas and produced during processing (in
the separation process)

net profit margin
net profit / revenue x 100%

net wells
the number of wells adjusted for other partners’ interests

net drillings
the number of drillings corrected with the share of other partners.

net working capital
trade receivables + inventories – trade liabilities net profit / equity x 100%

o
opec
the organization of the petroleum exporting countries headquartered in vienna, which aims to
coordinate and unify the petroleum policies of its members. opec comprises the following
members: algieria, angola, saudi arabia, ecuador, iraq, iran ,qatar, kuwait, libya, nigeria,


                                                 485

venezuela, and united arab emirates

orthoxylene
an organic chemical compound and aromatic hydrocarbon, a derivative of benzene. it is used as
an intermediate product in the production of phthalic anhydride and motor gasolines, and as
a paint and varnish solvent and thinner

p
phenol
an organic chemical compound used in the production of polyamide fibres, phenoplasts,
colourings, pharmaceuticals, and plant protection products. it also has antiseptic and
preservative properties

polish power exchange
(towarowa giełda energii, tge) – an exchange where electricity, liquid and gas fuels, and
emission allowances are traded. the polish power exchange began operations on june 30th 2000,
which is when the first electricity supply contracts were executed on its day-ahead market. it
currently operates the day-ahead market, commodity forward instruments marketwith physical
delivery, and the res and co-generation property rights market. the polish power exchange also
maintains a register of certificates of origin for electricity produced from res and high-efficiency
co-generation, and operates a co2 emission allowance market

polyethylene
a polymer obtained through the polymerisation of ethylene (ethene). polyethyelene is used in the
production of prostheses, electrical insulation, films, pipes, tubing, containers, hockey sticks, skis,
sails, ropes, bulletproof vests, toys, and packaging

polymers
chemicals of very high molecular weight. which consist of many repeated units called mers.
polyethylene and polypropylene.

polypropylene
a polymer obtained through the stereospecific polymerization of propene, used to produce fibres,
films, and technical-grade products

pribor
prague interbank offered rate

propylene
an organic compound, unsaturated hydrocarbon. propylene is used to produce various organic
compounds, such as polypropylene, isopropyl alcohol, glycerin, and isopropylbenzene

pta
terephthalic acid (a portmanteau of the turpentine-producing tree terebinthus, and phthalic acid)


                                                 486

is the organic compound with formula c6h4(co2h)2.
pvc
polyvinyl chloride, a plastic polymer typically used in the production of flooring, window and door
frames, accessories (various types of edge banding), piping and fittings for indoor installations,
sidings, films, and electrical insulation (for wires and cables)

q
quick liquidity
(current assets– inventories - prepayments)/ short-term liabilities

r
roa
net profit/ total assets x 100%

roe
net profit / equity x 100%

reach
under the reach regulation, the msds documents form the key tool used in order to ensure
information flow along the supply chain. pursuant to art. 31 of reach, the supplier of a substance
or mixture is required to deliver to the customer an msds document in the official language of
the member state in whose territory a given substance or mixture is marketed

receiveables turnover
average amount of trade receivables. net/ net revenues x 365 days

respect index
an index comprising socially responsible companies listed on the main market of the warsaw
stock exchange. corporate social responsibility is understood as a management strategy and
approach to business which aims to build positive long-term relations rooted in mutual
understanding of expectations and respect towards the broad business environment

responsible care
the ‘responsible care’ programme has operated in poland for 22 years under the auspices of the
polish chamber of chemical industry. it is a global pro-environmental initiative of the chemical
industry, implemented in poland by 31 companies from the chemical and related sectors, which
engage on a voluntary basis in environmental protection, health protection, and process safety
enhancement projects

responsible care framework management system certificate
a document certifying that pkn orlen operates in compliance with the highest management
standards in the areas of health, safety and environmental protection and in accordance with the
principle of sustainable development and corporate social responsibility, as well as legally


                                                487

prescribed environmental standards. all work is carried out in a professional manner, with due
consideration to current and future environmental impacts

s
scr
(selective catalytic reduction) unit – a flue gas denitrification unit which uses selective catalytic
reduction to treat the flue gas from steam generators. the scr unit installed on boilers is part of
the pkn orlen ‘green energy’ investment programme launched in 2010, which aims to bring the
chp plant in płock in compliance with the requirements effective as of 2016

soda lye
an aqueous solution of sodium hydroxide (naoh).it is used in many industries as a chemical base
in the production of organic and inorganic chemicals, pulp, aluminium and other metals, textiles,
as well as in the production of food and treatment of water

sodium hydroxide, lye, caustic soda, naoh
inorganic chemical compound from the group of hydroxides, one of the strongest alkali it is used
for the production of soaps, detergents, cellulose, viscose rayon, dyestuffs, paper and water-
glass. it is also used in oil refining, and can be used as absorbent and reagent.

t
terephthalic acid
an organic chemical compound and aromatic acid. purified terephthalic acid (pta) is used
primarily in the production of polyethylene terephthalate (pet), polyester fibres and polyamide
fibres with a high tensile strength

the aeo
authorised economic operator (aeo) certificate found in the community customs code, the
concept of the authorised economic operator was introduced into the european union’s legal
framework on january 1st 2008 to create a secure supply chain and combat terrorism. entities
awarded the authorised economic operator status enjoy multiple benefits in conducting their
trade activities. aeo status awarded in one eu member state is recognised across the entire
community the minister of the environment’s regulation of august 24th 2012 concerning the
concentration of certain substances in the air (dz.u. of 2012, no. 177, item 1031)

toe
tonne oil equivalent (toe) - energy equivalent of one metric ton of crude oil with a calorific value
equal to 10 000 kcal/kg.

toluene
an organic chemical compound and aromatic hydrocarbon. high-purity toluene is typically used
as an intermediate product in the production of organic intermediate products, colourings,
detergents, solvents, adhesives, explosive materials, and motor fuels




                                                488

trr
total recordable rate = an internationally recognised metric of a company’s rate of workplace
accidents, determined as follows: (number of workplace accidents in a period of time / number of
hours worked in the same period) x 1,000,000

tsr (total shareholder return)
an economic measure indicating returns to investors holding shares in a company in a given
period

t1 pser
the number of events with greater consequences in relation to the release substance into the
environment x 1 000 000 / number of hours worked.

t2 pser
the number of events with smaller consequences in relation to the release substance into the
environment x 1 000 000 / number of hours worked.

u
upstream
exploration for and production of hydrocarbons.

ural rdam (ural cif rotterdam)
ural crude oil quotation in rotterdam

v
vilibor
(vilnius inter bank offered rate) – an interest rate for interbank loans offered on the lithuanian
interbank market

w
waste management procedure
an internal document of the company regulating its waste management procedures, prepared in
accordance with applicable laws

white product yield
the yield of gasoline, diesel and heating fuel, fuel fractions, dry and liquefied petroleum gas
compared to the amount of processed crude oil.

wibor
(warsaw interbank offered rate) – an interest rate for interbank loans offered on the polish
interbank market




                                                489

wig-poland
a stock index comprising only the shares of polish companies traded on the wse main market
which satisfy the basic eligibility criteria

wig-paliwa
an industry index comprising wig index companies operating in the fuel sector

wig20
a stock index calculated based on the value of the 20 largest and most liquid stocks traded on
the wse main market

wig30
a stock index calculated based on the value of the 30 largest and most liquid stocks traded on
the wse main market

working capital
trade receivables + inventories - trade payables




                                               490
