fy2016

sustainability
report

     contents
     4      a letter from the ceo
     6      about this report
     7      financial sustainability:
     8      stewards of our money and yours
     10     responsible expansion
     12     health & safety sustainability:
     13     accountability & recognition
     14     by the numbers
     15     problem solving
     16     outside the box:
     17     process excellence
     17     mirt
     18     channel deepening
     19     external transportation networks
     19     position detection system
     20     solas
     20     maintenance dredging
     21     environmental sustainability:
     22     we’re certified
     23     clean sea, land & air
     27     social sustainability:
     28     giving back
     29     economic development
     32     port eq
     34     sustaining the future




the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report   2

                          a letter from the ceo
                                        john f. reinhart, ceo and executive director




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                 3

       “sustainability is one of our six core values.”

       sustainability is one of our six core values. it is also one of the driving factors behind every decision
       we make at the port of virginia®. as a key economic engine for virginia, we must ensure we can serve
       that critical role for generations to come. that means we must be sustainable financially, operationally
       and environmentally. as stewards of tomorrow®, it is our mission — and our privilege — to do so.

       in fiscal year 2016, we handled a record-breaking 1.46 million containers — and did so more safely,
       swiftly and sustainably than ever. further, we did so profitably for the second consecutive year. we
       were able to grow our rail volume by double digits, reduce our turn times and improve workplace
       safety — our highest priority. we welcomed the first 10,000 teu (twenty-foot container equivalent
       unit) vessel through the newly opened locks of the panama canal and continued working with our
       partners at the army corps of engineers to ensure our shipping channels are deep enough, wide
       enough and safe enough for this new era of large container ships. in anticipation of the expected
       increases in volume, we embarked on a capacity-building project on a scale unlike anything ever
       done here before.

       the port of virginia is built on the foundation of six anchor
       values: mindfulness, innovation, fortitude, helpfulness,
       sustainability and accessibility. it drives everything we do.

       engaging with and educating our communities remains a priority. our marine incident response
       team (mirt) welcomed its 25th class of first responders from across the globe to our world-renowned
       marine firefighting school. as reliance on technology becomes more necessary, we work with
       partners, including the u.s. coast guard, to train against cyber security attacks. in support of our
       mission to improve virginia’s waterways, our aid to local ports program provided $1 million to cities
       throughout our region for projects including dredging, dock and slip upgrades, wharf improvements
       and jetty rehabilitation.

       we have a clear path forward and are using our values to guide us as we plan for our future. with
       strong support, vision and leadership from our board of commissioners, our general assembly and
       administration, we are using the momentum gained over the past two years to propel us forward with
       confidence and clarity.

       sustainability starts with our people. it takes innovation, creativity and a drive for continual
       improvement, but we cannot do it alone.

       it will take all of our efforts. we invite you to join us and become stewards of tomorrow.




       john f. reinhart, ceo and executive director




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                             4

                                about this report




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report   5

                                   eleven coffee roasters are within one day’s drive of the port.



        the port of virginia moves what matters.
       from cars to coffee beans, the cargo we handle keeps industries, businesses and households going
       strong, driving economic growth and job creation along the way. the continuous movement of goods
       is necessary for nationwide prosperity, particularly for the two-thirds of americans who live within a
       day’s drive of our port’s facilities. but it’s not just what the port moves that matters. it’s also how we
       conduct our business and practice stewardship in the communities we serve.

                   to the port of virginia, sustainability means
               excelling in the areas of healthy and safe operations,
               environmental stewardship and social responsibility.
       in all aspects of our work, there is a focus on sustainability. to the port of virginia, sustainability means
       excelling in the areas of healthy and safe operations, environmental stewardship and social responsi-
       bility. each of our facilities’ sustainability initiatives goes hand-in-hand with an overarching commitment
       to financial responsibility and operational excellence.

       an aspect of sustainability of which we’re most proud is our role in the creation of jobs, an increase
       in revenue and business development across the commonwealth. in fiscal year 2016 (fy16), port-re-
       lated companies created over 3,600 jobs in virginia, and 39 businesses announced plans to grow or
       expand their presence in places like arlington, norfolk and roanoke. in total, we helped attract more
       than $733 million in investments to the commonwealth. fy16 wasn’t just a second consecutive year of
       financial successes for us; it was also another step forward on the path to more growth and long-term
       sustainability.

       when we think of sustainability, we don’t just zero in on making things greener. we are also investing
       in our communities, terminals and our people, so we can serve as an economic engine for generations
       to come. these investments will make our port a safer place to work, provide us the ability to handle
       cargo more efficiently with less environmental impact and create job opportunities throughout the
       commonwealth.

       meeting all of those goals is what makes us truly sustainable.

       as cargo moves toward its destination, our port moves toward a more sustainable future.


back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                              6

       financial
       sustainability
       automobiles, building materials, coffee beans and most of the things people use every day will
       need to continue moving as long as they are in demand – and our port’s job is to ensure the
       supply can meet the demand. to accommodate that demand, we must first plan for a sustainable
       future with healthy responsible growth.




back      the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                               7

       the improvements at nit south have the potential to help create over 120,000 additional jobs across the commonwealth.




                  stewards of our money and yours
       by attracting new jobs and businesses to the region, growth at the port of virginia equates to growth
       across the commonwealth. we strive to make the most of all of our resources — especially our
       financial resources. that’s why we constantly seek out and take advantage of available grant dollars. in
       fiscal year 2016, port projects supported by $16.9 million in state and federal grants added value
       to virginia communities and contributed to our fiscal sustainability.
       for example, a transportation investment generating economic recovery (tiger) grant from the


          in fiscal year 2016, port projects supported by $16.9 million
                in state and federal grants added value to virginia
               communities and contributed to fiscal sustainability.

       u.s. department of transportation paved the way for an expansion of the norfolk international
       terminals’ north gate complex in 2015. when completed in summer 2017, this 26-lane gate will more
       than double the terminal’s gate capacity. we would not have been able to undertake that project if it
       weren’t for tiger funding.

       this year, u.s. maritime administration (marad) committed more than $476,000 in grant funds
       to our 64 express barge service from our terminals in hampton roads to the richmond
       marine terminal (rmt). we’ll use those funds to help purchase a 52,000-pound forklift for rmt
       and 40-foot generator power pack for our barge. the forklift will enable rmt to process new types
       of inbound and outbound cargo. the generator will enable our barge to carry refrigerated cargo,
       expanding our service capabilities to rmt, and supporting growing grocery and wine market
       opportunities for the surrounding communities as well.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                         8

                                    a rubber tire gantry crane (rtg) helps move cargo at nit.



       using additional grant money, we purchased four previously owned rubber tire gantry
       cranes (rtgs) for approximately 3 million euro. doing so saved us half the cost of new equipment and
       cut the time to put into service by 15 months. new equipment was also on the agenda this year. with
       the newly minted 40-year lease at rmt, we were able to secure federal funding to buy a $4 million,
       350-ton mobile harbor crane. it replaces old equipment and increases the velocity at which containers
       move on and off terminal at rmt as we drive more and more cargo along the interstate
       95 corridor.

       the maritime incident response team (mirt) maximizes federal dollars through the port security
       grant (psg) program. recent psg awards will fund our cyber security and maritime domain awareness
       initiatives by upgrading command and control systems at the port police command center. additional
       grant monies covered our 48-foot mobile port authority command 1(pac-1) unit.

       pac-1 is designed to be deployed to an incident or event to provide support command and control,
       communications and continuity of operations. pac-1 features radio, satellite, cell phone communications
       equipment and computers to support incident command functions. pac-1 is also equipped with
       marine radar and an automatic identification system (ais) to conduct maritime operations. it is not
       only available for use by mirt member agencies but also by partner agencies. like other equipment
       acquired through grants, it is frequently in use, averaging one deployment every week.

       beyond the use of grants, financial stewardship means streamlining port processes to be more
       convenient and cost-effective. we’ve streamlined and standardized our schedule of rates (sor) to align
       cyclical rate increases, reducing the amount of relevant paperwork annually from four documents to
       two. the sor now encompasses and standardizes more rates and services for all of the facilities under
       the port of virginia umbrella.

       at the port of virginia, financial stewardship allows us to meet our goals. we can move more cargo
       while serving the commonwealth responsibly.


back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                           9

        norfolk harbor: home to four of the port of virginia’s six terminals, and home of the future craney island marine terminal.




                                   responsible expansion
       automobiles, building materials, coffee beans and most of the things people use every day will need to
       continue moving as long as they are in demand — and our port’s job is to ensure the supply can meet
       the demand. to accommodate that demand, we must first plan for a sustainable future with healthy
       responsible growth. that’s where the 2065 master plan becomes vital.


                   “this is an historic event for the port of virginia,”
               said governor terry mcauliffe. “this new lease helps to
              put the port on the path to long-term sustainability, which,
               in turn, will result in continued job creation, investment
                          and revenue for the commonwealth.

       “the master plan represents our commitment to virginia taxpayers and other stakeholders to plan
       responsibly and budget accordingly,” says anja sparenberg, director of management reporting for the
       port of virginia. “in the 2065 master plan, we chart growth opportunities and how they relate to capital
       investment projects, such as expansion at norfolk international terminals (nit) and a long-term lease
       at richmond marine terminal (rmt).



back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                                10

                                                    norfolk international terminals
                                                    it is with the support of the governor, general assembly,
                                                    the transportation secretary and the virginia port authority
                                                    board of commissioners, the port entered an era of
                                                    continued and sustainable growth in fiscal year 2016.

                                                    in june, the port will complete construction on the
                                                    north gate at nit. the 26-lane gate will more than
                                                    double the terminal’s gate capacity and link with the
                                                    i-564 connector, a road project designed to give motor
                                                    carriers faster access to market and cut emissions by
                                                    reducing idle time in traffic.

       on july 1, 2017, construction will begin at the south end of nit — the port’s oldest and largest facility.
       with the help of a $350 million investment from the commonwealth, the port will renovate and
       reconfigure the area to move cargo more swiftly, safely, and sustainably than ever before. when
       complete in 2020, the project will increase the terminal’s annual capacity by 400,000
       containers — or 46 percent — without adding an inch of real estate.



                                                   virginia international gateway
                                                   the state’s investment at nit enabled the port to negotiate
                                                   a new historic, long-term lease of its virginia interna-
                                                   tional gateway (vig) terminal in portsmouth that gives
                                                   the port oversight and operating rights at the facility until 2065.

                                                as part of a $320 million project, the port is developing
                                                60 unused acres inside vig’s 231-acre footprint to add
                                                26 automated stacking cranes and expand the con-
                                                tainer yard. to accommodate the largest container vessels
                                                working in the atlantic, the pier will be lengthened, four ship-
       to-shore cranes added and the rail operation expanded. the project will maximize industry-leading
       technology and double vig’s annual capacity to 1.2 million containers.



                                                   richmond marine terminal
                                                in fiscal year 2016, we executed a 40-year lease with
                                                the city of richmond for the operating rights at rmt.
                                                a federal grant also allowed us to purchase a new mobile
                                                harbor crane for use at rmt, replacing an older, less effi-
                                                cient piece of equipment. with each new investment from
                                                the state or federal government, we work toward a more
                                                sustainable operating future. ultimately, these investments
                                                in our network of terminals enable our port to meet the
                                                needs of the millions of americans we serve daily across the
       commonwealth and beyond. it is long range, responsible planning for expansion projects like the ones
       at vig and nit that open the door to even more cargo and sustainable growth.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                              11

       health & safety
       sustainability
       safety is always our first priority at the port of virginia. we actively promote a healthy and safe work
       environment for employees and partners by identifying risks, developing solutions and reinforcing
       appropriate behavior across our network of terminals. knowing our strengths and weaknesses is
       the foundation of health and safety sustainability. one of the many tools of understanding we use to
       identify those strengths and weaknesses is our internal audit program.




back       the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                 12

                          accountability & recognition
                                                          safety is always our first priority at the port of virginia.
                                                          we actively promote a healthy and safe work environment
                                                          for employees and partners by identifying risks, developing
                                                          solutions and reinforcing appropriate behavior across our
                                                          network of terminals. knowing our strengths and weaknesses
                                                          is the foundation of health and safety sustainability. one of
                                                          the many tools of understanding we use to identify those
                                                          strengths and weaknesses is our internal audit program.
        all port colleagues and patrons are required to
                                                   “the single most important lesson that every member of
          attend a comprehensive safety orientation.
                                                   the port team must understand is that all mishaps have
                                                   a human element and, therefore, can be prevented,” said
       ronald babski, vice president of health and safety at the port. “our colleagues and partners on the
       ground interacting smartly and safely with each other every day demonstrate our commitment to
       building a safer workplace.”

                                 “all mishaps have a human element
                                  and, therefore, can be prevented.”
                            – ronald babski, vice president of health & safety at the port

       our leadership must continually set the right example to foster a safer workplace. our executive safety
       leadership and supervisor safety leadership training programs educate port executives and
       managers on the proper strategies to reduce accidents, improve employee morale and analyze incidents.
       in 2016, a combined 192 executives and supervisors participated in those training programs.

       from the top down, all new port colleagues and patrons are required to attend a comprehensive safety
       orientation. the orientation complements our original document, “the operational standards,” which
       details key safety procedures for all port activities.

       to reinforce safe behavior at all levels, the terminal safety infraction policy (tsip) was instituted
       to reward excellence and correct unsafe activity. tsip requires all port workers, contractors,
       vendors and others to comply with 35 fundamental health and safety rules across all facilities. port
       leadership recognizes compliance by documenting excellence, sending letters of recognition and
       presenting small tokens of gratitude, such as a safety vest, to team members. meanwhile, corrections
       to non-compliance are provided through citations ranging from a written warning to a suspension and
       remedial training.

       along with tsip, our 5:1 program ensures safe behavior and the rewards that go along with
       reinforcing it on a daily basis. the 5:1 program requires managers and supervisors to positively
       recognize equipment operators five times for excellence for each time an operator is decertified or
       retrained for non-compliance. with more than 1,200 exchanges in 2016, tsip and the 5:1
       program are where the rubber meets the road within our health and safety strategy.

       ultimately, our commitment to health and safety across our terminals results in a more productive,
       sustainable workforce. while one on-the-job injury is too many, year after year, the port of virginia
       maintains a below-average number of lost work days due to injury compared to industry average.



back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                               13

                                         by the numbers


                       at the port of virginia


                      all incidents
                      are preventable
                       with proper care and planning. we strive for
                       zero lost work days and our numbers over the
                       last several years show we are nearing our goal.




                                   in fiscal year to date (fytd17),
                           the lost work day (lwd) rate of 1.69 days is a



                        33.20%                               reduction since fy16 and a




                          46.85%                                          reduction since fy15.

                                       calendar year lwd’s – 2.32 | industry average lwd’s – 3.4 for 2015




                                                                    fy13 – 2.54

                     lost work day rate                             fy14 – 2.51
                     for the port of virginia
                     fy13-current                                   fy15 – 3.18

                                                                    fy16 – 2.53




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                      14

                                       problem solving
                                                 due to the complexity of modern port operations, even
                                                 minor disruptions to normal procedures can result in costly
                                                 delays. the port of virginia continues to lead the industry
                                                 and community on initiatives to proactively identify and
                                                 mitigate risk and respond to events with practiced resiliency.
                                                 to prepare for everything from fluctuations in the shipping
                                                 industry to rising sea levels, our port employs a thorough
                                                 enterprise risk management (erm) program, which empha-
                                                 sizes a holistic approach to identifying and eliminating such
                                                 risks. rather than preparing for challenges at a department
       or agency level, we work to bridge the gap between on- and off-terminal stakeholders and to create a
       framework for addressing risks as a unified entity, whether those issues are related to the web, weath-
       er or work site.

       cyber
       moving cargo around the world requires more than ships, trucks and trains. it requires sophisticated
       software and equipment that enables that cargo to move safely, swiftly and sustainably. cyber security
       is an integral part of our overall security measures. we work with the u.s. coast guard’s cyber com-
       mand and the federal bureau of investigation to protect our facilities, employees and partners against
       a breach. cyber exercises, like cyber crucible, a first-ever tabletop exercise program for us, are
       an integral part of preparing for and protecting against 21st-century threats.

       nature
       our port’s location along the east coast requires preparation
       for natural disasters. hurricanes, nor’easters, snow and ice
       storms — even the occasional tornado — can impact and
       impede port services.

       the answer to these potential threats begins with analyzing
       our infrastructure. we identify potential vulnerabilities within
       our facilities and operations, allowing us to prioritize invest-
       ments and harden infrastructure accordingly. for instance,
       an ongoing resiliency study seeks to map terminals
       against projected storm surges and flood risks. the goal
       is to identify infrastructure that requires strengthening or re-
       location, eliminate potential points of failure and assign risk grades for every imaginable scenario. it’s
       through these efforts that an informed capital budget is created.

       sea level rise is of particular interest and concern to us. hampton roads is the second-most susceptible
       region in the u.s. to rising sea levels and because we are a catalyst for commerce™, disruptions to
       port operations can have widespread economic impacts on the region. that’s why we work with off-
       terminal stakeholders in academia, local government, industry and the military on studies to identify
       threats and propose resiliency strategies for our port and the community at large.

       occupational
       protecting our colleagues’ health and safety is job number one. ongoing training and an
       emergency notification system prepare port employees for potential threats. in 2016, we trained
       136 colleagues during a simulated active shooter exercise that incorporated both personal
       response techniques and law enforcement response. providing this type of situational awareness
       training further reinforces our core values in our colleagues.


back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                              15

       outside the box
                                                                        external
               process                                    channel
                                          mirt                       transportation
              excellence                                 deepening     networks




                            position                          maintenance
                           detection                 solas     dredging
                            system




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                16

                                      process excellence
                                                         through our process excellence program, we ensure
                                                         high-quality results are sustained through the creation
                                                         of robust and repeatable processes. as a show of good
                                                         stewardship, we optimize the use of state and federal
                                                         funds to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
                                                         our internal and customer-facing processes. an exam-
                                                         ple of process excellence at work is our iso 9001:2015
                                                         certification which helps us focus our resources and
                                                         document our processes. the port of virginia is the
                                                         only port in north america certified to the iso
                                                         9001:2015 standard.

       by equipping port colleagues with time-tested tools and methodologies, the process excellence pro-
       gram shifts us from department-centric thinking to process thinking. our process excellence program
       ensures that processes (old and new) are documented to drive consistency and clarity in all that we
       do. the focus on process helps us identify impediments and develop solutions with measurable
       and lasting impact. additionally, it creates a central repository that colleagues can access on an ongo-
       ing basis. in 2016, these tools were used to empower a cross-functional team of internal and external
       stakeholders to troubleshoot existing issues hampering productivity on one of our marine terminals.
       in less than two months, the team developed and implemented practical solutions that im-
       proved productivity by more than 5 percent.

       process excellence not only addresses our day-to-day processes, but it also links to our strategic goals.
       in 2016, a new process for capital prioritization was created that aligns asset planning, the master plan
       and budgeting efforts. as 2016 came to a close, we launched a series of organization-wide process
       improvement initiatives that will guide our efforts in 2017. the topics include: looking at how we hire,
       continuing to optimize how we identify projects and use grant monies, and improving and standardiz-
       ing how we change our schedule of rates.



                                                        mirt
       safety comes first at the port of virginia and recognition
       came in fiscal year 2016 (fy16) for our efforts. because
       of the community engagement efforts of our one-of-a-
       kind maritime incident response team (mirt), we were
       honored by the u.s. coast guard with the “rear
       admiral richard e. bennis award for excellence in
       maritime security.” this biannual recognition seeks to
       increase public awareness and stress the importance of
       protecting the marine transportation system. mirt works           the marine firefighting school trains thousands
       hand-in-hand with local, state and federal agencies to                  of firefighters from near and far.

       prepare for and respond to emergency situations in and
       around port facilities. among its many responsibilities, the team assists in coordinating regional drills
       and exercises, co-sponsors the annual search and rescue forum and coordinates the annual hamp-
       ton roads marine firefighting symposium. in fy16, the marine firefighting school celebrated 25 years
       of service to port communities having trained thousands of firefighters from the region, across the
       country and around the world. this well-rooted safety and awareness program enhances our financial,
       health & safety and social sustainability.


back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                17

                                      channel deepening
                                                                our expansion activities at the port of virginia aren’t
                                                                limited to the reinvestment and capital improvements
                                                                underway at virginia international gateway (vig) and
                                                                norfolk international terminals (nit) to increase capacity.
                                                                we also work beneath the water to maintain our position
                                                                as the deepest port of the u.s. east coast. as the
                                                                only u.s. east coast port with congressional authoriza-
         norfolk harbor: home to four of the port of virginia’s tion to further deepen our channels to 55 feet, we
          six terminals, and home of the future craney island   are 18 months into a three-year study with the u.s. army
                           marine terminal.                     corps of engineers to revalidate requirements to deepen
                                                                norfolk harbor channel. deeper channels will enable
       us to accommodate larger ships. in doing so, we can attract new business and new investment to the
       commonwealth.

                “the port of virginia clearly has the future in focus
               as they partner with the army corps of engineers to
              deepen and widen the navigation channels to provide
                           safer passage for the ships.”
       “virginia is blessed with naturally deep offshore waters that provide safe access into our navigation
       channels and marine terminals. the size of the container ships calling here today are beyond anything
       i had imagined just a few years ago, and hampton roads will be amazed by the ultra large container
       vessels that will soon be calling,” said captain j. william cofer, president of the virginia pilot associa-
       tion. “the port of virginia clearly has the future in focus as they partner with the army corps of engi-
       neers to deepen and widen the navigation channels to provide safer passage for the ships.”

       in addition to fostering more business and increasing safety, accommodating larger vessels also offers
       the ability to move cargo more inexpensively and with fewer emissions, in turn passing savings on to
       consumers and reducing our impact on the environment. with nearly 1.5 million cargo containers
       moving in and out of our port’s terminals in fiscal year 2016 alone, we’re on track to grow those
       numbers and sustain them through a deeper channel passage.

       our port and the corps of engineers will publish the results of the study in the chief of engineers re-
       port in 2018.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                  18

                  external transportation networks
                                                                our port is versatile when it comes to moving cargo.
                                                                whether by truck, train or our growing barge service,
                                                                our goal is to do so as safely, swiftly and sustainably as
                                                                possible. that’s why we are active partners with agen-
                                                                cies like the hampton roads transportation planning
                                                                organization (hrtpo) and advocates of two rail projects,
                                                                the heartland corridor and national gateway as well
                                                                as the alternative plans presented within the hampton
                                                                roads crossing study. at the port of virginia, we rely on
         the port of virginia is located within one day’s drive
                of two-thirds of the u.s. population.           the robust transportation infrastructure found in our
                                                                surrounding communities and continue to advocate for
                                                                thoughtful expansion. the planned norfolk international
       terminals (nit) north gate tie-in to the i-564 intermodal connector is one example. all of these ave-
       nues allow us to sustain a reduction in traffic congestion and emissions in surrounding communities and
       maintain efficient, safe movement of cargo.  



                                position detection system
                                                             moving cargo is what we do at the port of virginia. once
                                                             a container arrives on terminal, there are many ways it
                                                             can get from point a to point b, but optimizing its path
                                                             promotes safety and cost savings. pairing people with
                                                             technology is one of the ways we do it. we use a position
                                                             detection system (pds) in some of our cargo-handling
                                                             equipment at norfolk international terminals (nit) for
                                                             gate, yard and rail moves. currently, 87 straddle carriers
                                                             are equipped with pds, but we are incorporating the
                                                             technology more and more every day. pds ensures the
                                                             closest piece of appropriate equipment to a container is
                                                             assigned the move, providing great savings in terms of
            a straddle carrier on its way to pick up cargo   time, cost and emissions. our end goal always is to move
                  at virginia international gateway.         cargo as swiftly, safely, and sustainably as possible.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                  19

                         solas
        our port remains committed to ensuring the safety of
        cargo and crew by complying with solas standards
        – safety of life at sea. in fiscal year 2016, the process
        for supplying a ship’s verified gross mass (vgm) shifted
        entirely to an electronic format, and our port led the
        industry by providing a seamless transition to our
        customers on time and without any disruption to the                  the mol benefactor was the first 10,000 teu ship
                                                                                   to call on the port of virginia in 2016.
        delivery of service.




                                  maintenance dredging
       there is minimal cost of maintenance
         dredging to virginia taxpayers.
        our financial stewardship extends to conducting annual
        underwater surveys of each marine terminal which allow
        us to prioritize our budgetary requirements effectively.
        although expensive, the port plans wisely to ensure
        there is minimal cost of maintenance dredging to virginia          deep, wide and safe channels are a must for
                                                                                      a global gateway port.
        taxpayers. instead, our port has maximized the use of
        federal harbor maintenance tax funds to defray costs.
        the funds have been used to pay for maintenance dredg-
        ing at berths on the norfolk international terminals (nit) and newport news marine terminal (nnmt).




back    the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                         20

       environmental
       sustainability
       environmental stewardship is a key element of our port’s work both on- and off-terminal.
       as stewards of tomorrow, the port of virginia prioritizes procedures and technologies that
       help to reduce its carbon footprint.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                              21

                                         we’re certified
                                                                environmental stewardship is a key element
                                                                of our port’s work both on- and off-terminal.
                                                                as stewards of tomorrow, the port of virginia
                                                                prioritizes procedures and technologies that
                                                                help reduce its carbon footprint.

                                                                     at the cornerstone of our commitment to
                                                                     environmental stewardship is our indus-
                                                                     try-leading environmental management system
                                                                     (ems) program.  in 2008, the ems program was
              colleagues help keep our shoreline clean at our annual recognized by the iso by meeting all of the
                                clean the bay day.                   requirements of the iso 14001 standard,
                                                                     making us the first east coast port to operate
                                                                     under this certification. the environmental
       management system ensures the port’s colleagues and tenant activities operate proactively with an
       informed ability to respond to environmental risks while improving performance through the more
       effective use of resources and reduction in waste. this certification affords the port of virginia a
       competitive advantage and assists port colleagues in building trust and strong relationships with our
       customers. with an eye to the future, our port continues its efforts under the umbrella of the ems and
       has decided to include the richmond marine terminal (rmt) in the certified iso program this spring.

                      “we are committed to promoting the port’s
                    ongoing environmental stewardship programs”
                     – scott whitehurst, director of environmental policy and compliance

       we also foster environmental stewardship in each of the communities we touch by participating in
       local initiatives. among them, the chesapeake bay foundation’s clean the bay day, the elizabeth river
       project’s local wetlands renewal efforts and using the port’s ems program to assist with controlling
       storm water pollution and air emissions. we accomplish our environmental stewardship through
       special training, implementation of new technologies, monitoring potential environmental impacts and
       programmatic improvements.

       this certification aligns with the port of virginia’s existing core values of innovation,
       helpfulness, fortitude, accessibility, mindfulness and sustainability. encouraging energy
       conservation, reducing air emissions, reducing the number of by-products in the solid waste stream,
       increasing employee participation in stewardship and continually improving environmental performance
       all leads to environmental sustainability.

       “in developing and managing the ems, we are committed to promoting the port’s ongoing environmental
       stewardship programs, improving communication between the virginia port authority and terminal
       operators, tracking environmental performance as well as meeting permit compliance requirements,”
       says scott whitehurst, director of environmental policy and compliance for the port.

       each of these priorities will help our port reach other sustainability goals and keep us at the forefront
       of stewardship in our industry.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                           22

         clean sea, land & air
                                                              the incorporation of fuel-efficient equipment and advanced technology keeps the port of virginia on
                                                              the front lines of innovation and sustainability. we work to reduce harmful pollution and streamline our
                                                              processes to build healthier and more vibrant communities in many ways:




                                    e-waste
                                    in fiscal year 2016 (fy16), we collected and mindfully disposed of more than 13,500 pounds of electronic waste
                                    (e-waste), keeping substances such as lead and mercury out of port communities. through our ports e-recycling
                                    program, established in 2010, old electronic devices are processed and disposed of properly, preventing toxic
                                    substances from entering the normal waste stream.




                                                                                              the port of virginia properly disposed of
                                                                                              computers, hardware, software, power tools
                                                                                              monitors, appliances, cell phones, batteries,
                                                                                              light bulbs, televisions & electronics totalling

                                                                                             13,500 pounds.


back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                                                       23

                                    a different
                                    kind of oil change.
                                    we also eliminated the use of pcbs (polychlorinated biphenyls),
                                    silicone and petroleum-based fluids in our electrical transformers
                                    at norfolk international terminals (nit) and virginia international
                                    gateway (vig). instead, we utilize mineral oil which reduces the
                                    risk port operations could pose on the surrounding environment.
                                    in the event of a leak, mineral oil will not adversely impact soil,
                                    water or plant and animal life.




          quicker, quieter cranes
          in 2016, we announced the purchase of 86 rail-mounted gantry (rmg) cranes for use
          at nit and vig, the largest-ever purchase of such cargo handling equipment in industry
          history. electric and semi-automated, rmgs are a safer and more sustainable solution
          for port operations than the existing diesel-fueled equipment, allowing the port to reduce
          the impact of air and noise pollution on surrounding communities.




       fpo need approval



                                                                                               green operator (go) diesel
                                                                                               emission reduction program
                                                                                                the go program provides monetary incentives to help motor carriers replace or retrofit their
                                                                                                trucks with emissions-reducing technology. the most successful program of its kind in the
                                                                                                u.s., the go program replaced 30 trucks in fy16, and 410 trucks serving our facilities since
                                                                                                its inception. the program is possible through congestion mitigation and air quality (cmaq)
                                                                                                grants. in years past, we received upwards of $500,000 a year in funding; in fy16 our funding
                                                                                                was doubled. as a result, we will be able to replace or retrofit double the number of trucks and
                                                                                                expand our program to drivers serving the richmond marine terminal (rmt).



                                                                                                                                       1.18
                                                                                                                                                         10.206


                                                                                                                                                               green operator
                                                                                                                                                                annual truck
                                                                                                                                       .263

                                                                                                                                         1.883

                                                                                                                                                                 emissions
                                                                                                                                      .116

                                                                                                                                        1.818
                                                                                                                                                              reductions (tons)
                                                                                                                                                 7.046

                                                                                                                                                                                                  38.54




                                                                                                                           emissions (post-retrofit tons)         emissions (pre-retrofit tons)




back    the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                                                                                                   24

         marine highway
         our 64 express barge service carries up to 120 containers from the terminals in hampton roads to
         the rmt and back three times a week. each container on a barge along our port’s marine highway
         represents one truck removed from the nation’s roads. we operate the east coast’s longest-running
         barge service on the james river having moved more than 16,000 containers in fy16 alone. in a
         “cost allocation study” conducted in 2000 by the federal highway administration, it was estimated that
         the pavement impact of an 80,000 lb. tractor-trailer is nearly $.12 per mile. diverting 16,000 containers to
         our barge service for the 100-mile trip equates to an estimated savings on pavement impact of $192,000.
         this assessment doesn’t even consider additional factors including bridge maintenance, new road
         construction, congestion or noise, which could make the impact even more substantial.




                                                                                                                                             71.6
                                                                                          tons of co2 per million ton-miles



                                                                                                                        26.9
                                                                                              19.3
       each container
       on a barge along
       our marine highway
       represents one truck
       removed from the
                                                                                         1 barge = 16 rail cars = 70 trucks
       nation’s roads.
                                                                                         in february 2017, the port of virginia introduced a new barge —
                                                                                         named “the richmond express” — which has a 50 percent greater
                                                                                         carrying capacity than the previous “64 express” barge.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                                                     25

        rail services
       the port of virginia moves more cargo via rail than any other east coast port. at norfolk international terminals,
       two 2,000-horsepower, ultra-low emission locomotives reduce nitrous oxide emissions by 80 percent and consume
       50 percent less fuel than conventional diesel locomotives. off terminal, we partner with norfolk southern and csx
       to connect the middle of the country with the rest of the world by moving freight to and from our terminals to
       cities including columbus, chicago and memphis. and, as is the case with barges, transporting cargo by rail takes
       trucks off the roads thus reducing wear and tear on roads and providing another more environmentally friendly
       way to move cargo and expand our reach into multiple markets well beyond virginia.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                      26

       social
       sustainability
       the port of virginia operates six different terminals, covering nearly 2,000 acres in the
       commonwealth of virginia, but our responsibilities extend far beyond our gates.




back    the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                            27

                                                         giving back
                                                          the port of virginia operates six different terminals, covering
                                                          nearly 2,000 acres in the commonwealth of virginia, but our
                                                          responsibilities extend far beyond our gates.

                                                          “social sustainability is built into the port’s mission statement,
                                                          making it just as important to us as fiscal and environmental
                                                          sustainability,” said john reinhart, ceo and executive director
       colleagues help keep our shoreline clean at our    of the port. “in many ways, these three areas of sustainability
                 annual clean the bay day.
                                                          overlap when it comes to giving back.”

        “social sustainability is built into the port’s mission statement, making it just
        as important to us as fiscal and environmental sustainability. in many ways,
          these three areas of sustainability overlap when it comes to giving back.”
                                         – john reinhart, ceo and executive director of the port

       in fiscal year 2016 (fy16), the port of virginia welcomed 15 college students into the summer intern-
       ship program. after the program had concluded, three of those students began work at the port,
       aiding us in building a cost-effective workforce with talented and experienced colleagues. meanwhile,
       our port’s involvement with the communities in schools outreach program exposed five high school
       students to career opportunities in the maritime industry.

       in total, our fy16 community outreach efforts comprised more than 40 events in various areas
       — from the support of local colleges and universities to community service organizations. our volunteers
       partnered with csx and skw constructors to clean more than 3.5 miles of shoreline removing
       6,000 pounds of trash from the elizabeth river as part of the annual chesapeake bay founda-
       tion’s clean the bay day. our commitment to the sustainability of the elizabeth river grows year after
       year, having earned us 17 consecutive river star awards from the elizabeth river project.

       our volunteer council spearheads much of our community involvement. in fy16, through the council’s
       leadership, we raised $29,000 for the united way and delivered 2,100 pounds of canned goods
       to the foodbank of southeastern virginia.

       in addition to serving our communities at-large, our programs support the needs of our port partners
       as well as publicly owned marine facilities. truck drivers are an integral part of our supply chain —
       moving nearly two-thirds of the port of virginia’s cargo. it’s fitting that our employees delivered gift
       bags, safety vests and hats to more than 1,000 of those drivers during national truck driver
       appreciation week in september.

       in fy16, we were able to present seven awards across hampton roads through our annual
       aid to local ports program, a grant program allowing local governments to apply for a portion of
       $1,000,000 in designated funds. as an example, in fy16 the city of newport news received more
       than $630,000 for the replacement of a bulkhead at the seafood industrial park.

       “without the grant, the city would be unable to deliver full funding to make this major upgrade to one
       of our prime revenue-generating assets, without sacrificing other capital improvement needs,” said
       florence kingston, director of the department of development for the city of newport news.

       from isle of wight county to the eastern shore, thousands of dollars were awarded for marine facility
       improvements. aid to local ports is one of the many ways we contribute to the sustainability of the
       communities we touch throughout the year.

back
       the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                      28

                                                            economic development




                                                 there were 39 port-related economic
                                                 development announcements.

                                                 port customers used 2,591,840 square feet of
                                                 available space in the market.

                                                 port customers invested over $733,175,000
                                                 in the market

                                                 port customers generated 3,639 new jobs



           in fy16                         $4.95 million available in virginia port incentives
                                           each year (tax credits date of expiration is 2022
                                           and the grant will expire in 2020)




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                           29

                                                                                                                                                        374,000 jobs
                                                                                                                                                        or 9.4% of the state’s
                                                                                                                                                        resident workforce,
                                                                                                                                                        work port-related jobs
     66




                             95




                                                                                                                          maryland


                                                                                                                                 accomac k


                                                                                                                              onley



                              295



                                                  64
                                                   64
                                                                                                                                                      the port of virginia is home
                                                                                  math e w s
               ri c hmon d
                                                                    glo u ce s te r
                                                                                                                  n o r th ampto n
                                                                                                                                                      to foreign trade zone 20
                                                  jame s ci t y

                                                  w i l l i ams b u r g
                                                                                     yo r k


                                                     s u r ry n e w po r t n e w s
                                                                                              po q u o s o n
                                                                                                                                                      over $1.75 billion of total
                                                                                               h ampto n
85                                                                                                                                                    merchandise is received
                                    su ssex
                                                              i s l e o f w i gh t                     norfolk                                        in the port of virginia’s
          85                 95                                                                                  264
                                                                                                                  264



                                        sou t hamp to n
                                                                              po r ts mo u th
                                                                                                               vi r gi n i a b e ach                  foreign trade zone 20
                                               franklin               suffolk
                                                                                                                                                      annually
                                                                                         ch e s a pe a k e



                                                                                                      cu r r i tu ck
                                                                                                 c amde n                                             companies produced
                                                                                                                                             ftz 20
                                                                          gate s


                                              her tfo r d
                                                                                                    e l i z a b e th ci t y                           over $542 million in
                                                                                                  pa s q u ota n k                                    exports annually
                                                                                   pe r q u i ma n s




          north carolina                                                  ch o wa n




 back          the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                                                                                       29

                                                         over 750
                                                         internationally-owned companies
                                                         located in virginia




                                                         over 3,000
                                                         acres of land available within
                                                         close proximity for warehouse
                                                         and distribution development




                                                                      we earned our
                                                                      ice designation
                                                                      in september 2016,
                                                                      as a result of the
                                                                      region’s growing
                                                                      coffee packaging
                                                                      and handling industry




       international
       coffee exchange
       (ice) designation




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                        30

                                                  port eq
                                                  behind all of the port of virginia’s economic and environ-
                                                  mental activity stands a healthy and productive workforce.
                                                  our colleagues are our most valuable resource and it’s
                                                  those team members who develop more efficient programs,
                                                  streamline internal processes and give back to their local
                                                  communities. in short, they are the port’s emotional quotient
                                                  (eq) — the human capital that makes the port of virginia
                                                  truly sustainable in every sense of the word.

                                                  to foster such a team, we offer several engaging initiatives:

       stewardship recognition program (srp)
       through srp, we highlight colleagues’ work that promotes sustainability, be it environmental, financial
       or social. at the port of virginia, it’s all about creating a culture that celebrates successes and fosters
       future growth for the commonwealth. launched in november 2015, srp is a colleague-driven
       initiative highlighting excellence through living our values across the organization. colleagues earn
       recognition from peers and supervisors via “high fives” and awarded points, which they can exchange
       for merchandise from an online store.


                         tuition reimbursement program
                         in fiscal year 2016, 23 port employees pursued their college degrees with the
                         help of a reimbursement program, which offers port employees $5,000 per year
                         toward their studies.




                         cdl pilot program
                         launched in 2016 through a partnership with tidewater community college,
                         our in-house commercial driver’s license (cdl) training has enabled six
                         port colleagues to obtain their cdl. as employees earn their cdls, we can
                         operate with greater flexibility and at a reduced cost to move cargo from one
                         terminal to another.


                         wellness programs
                         in-house cpr training keeps port employees safe and ready to respond. additionally,
                         incentive programs offer employees the opportunity to earn rewards for completing
                         important health screenings and participating in physical fitness activities. we also of-
                         fer free annual flu shots, mobile mammography screenings and an on site clinic, allowing
                         team members to prioritize their health without taking costly time away from the job.


                         colleague engagement survey
                         our annual survey helps us gauge team members’ needs and solicit feedback on port
                         processes. with a best-in-class response rate of 97 percent, the survey gives
                         employees an avenue for making recommendations that enhance our culture, ultimately
                         making the port more productive, more profitable and thus, more sustainable.



back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                            31

       every day, we deliver superior service, safe transport and continuous improvement, and our numerous
       human resources programs enable our employees to be better stewards of their communities and our
       terminals. recognizing and fostering our port eq will keep us moving forward.




                                              total training hours:     tuition reimbursement cy16:
                                                                        participants: 10
                                              cy16 - 6,701
         training
                                                                        credit hours: 122.5
                                                                        total reimbursement paid: $38,497.51
         calendar year 2016
                                              cdl training: in cy16, the shift to in-house cdl training cut
                                              outsourced movement costs by approximately 50 percent,
                                              resulting in an average savings of $3,500 per week.

                                              cpr training: in cy16, all cpr training was shifted in-house
                                              from an external vendor. by certifying more than 250 employees
                                              annually, our savings are approximatley $6,250 per year.



                                                wellness
                                                calendar year 2016 summation:
                                                a total of $127,875 was paid to port colleagues for
                                                wellness rewards. a total of 284 employees and 135
                                                spouses participated in the program.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                         32

       sustaining
       the future
       as a catalyst for commerce, our work at the port will continue to create jobs and drive investment
       across the commonwealth of virginia, thanks to future planning that leverages robust partnerships,
       industry-leading technology and responsible asset management.




back      the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                             33

                               sustaining the future
                                                       as stewards of tomorrow, the port of virginia continually
                                                       looks toward the future. along with ongoing expansion
                                                       and reinvestment at several facilities, we look to leverage
                                                       new partnerships, upgrade technology and meticulously
                                                       manage our assets to spur growth that sustains our
                                                       operations for generations to come.

                                                           in fiscal year 2016, a new 40-year lease to operate the
                                                           richmond marine terminal (rmt) united the port of
           the 64 express barge service kept an estimated  virginia and the city of richmond through 2056. with
           22,000 trucks off the highway by carrying cargo
               up and down the james river in 2016.
                                                           that relationship in place and the growing use of barges
                                                           to move more and more cargo, we’ll turn to the
                                                           richmond community for new public-private partnerships
       that can drive economic opportunity and additional commercial expansion. moving forward, we’ve
       partnered with the city of richmond, the richmond transportation planning organization and virginia’s
       office of public-private partnerships to study the best use of the currently underutilized industrially
       zoned land around rmt. we hope by encouraging the development of what’s known as the commerce
       road corridor, we can help attract even more port users to the area.

       “the richmond marine terminal is a unique asset that differentiates the city of richmond as an
       attractive location for logistics and manufacturing,” said jane ferrara, chief operating officer of
       economic and community development for the city of richmond. “our partnership with the port of
       virginia connects the city to a global market and creates tremendous economic opportunity to drive
       new investment and high-quality jobs along the commerce road corridor.”

       to continually improve efficiency, we have also begun upgrading the terminal operating systems (tos)
       throughout port facilities. in fiscal year 2015, norfolk international terminals installed navis n4. in
       fiscal year 2017, it will be integrated the virginia inland port and pinner’s point container yard with the
       virginia international gateway following in fy18.

       this leading-edge tos allows for automated gate and transfer services that make operations safer for
       port employees and motor carriers. navis, a system used across several ports worldwide, replaces an
       older, custom-built system, thereby reducing the need for a large internal management staff and costly
       downtime as a result of maintenance.

       also on the horizon is the development of an advanced enterprise asset management (eam) program
       that will support our capital spending and strategic capital decision making. with more than $2 billion
       of total assets, it is important for us to manage what we have, how we maintain it and how and when
       we replace it. through a well-planned eam system, assets such as infrastructure, finances and human
       capital are strategically prioritized and managed to maximize investments while minimizing downtime
       through predictive maintenance practices.

       as a catalyst for commerce, our work at the port will continue to create jobs and drive investment
       across the commonwealth of virginia, thanks to future planning that leverages robust partnerships,
       industry-leading technology and responsible asset management.

       leading our industry as stewards of tomorrow, we are proud of our accomplishments over the last
       year and strive to build on those.




back   the port of virginia 2016 sustainability report                                                          34

2017 the port of virginia | 600 world trade center, norfolk, virginia 23510
©

                757.683.8000 | info@portofvirginia.com
