sustainability
   report



    2016

posti annual report 2016




                                                            contents
sustainability                                                                                                                                       1

sustainability at posti                                                                                                                              1
        managing responsibility                                                                                                                      4
        supply chain                                                                                                                                 6
        highlights                                                                                                                                   8
society                                                                                                                                             10
        tax footprint                                                                                                                               14
        stakeholders                                                                                                                                20
personnel                                                                                                                                           21
        responsible employer                                                                                                                        28
        occupational safety and well-being                                                                                                          30
environment                                                                                                                                         34
        green logistics and posti green                                                                                                             36
        indicators                                                                                                                                  39
gri reporting                                                                                                                                       43
        gri content index                                                                                                                           44




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / sustainability at posti




                 sustainability in posti’s day-to-day
                             operations
as posti sheds its skin time after time in response to changing customer needs, it always remains a reliable
partner. posti’s journey of nearly 400 years has seen great changes.

posti’s most significant task in society is to ensure smooth daily life for finnish consumers and businesses. each
weekday, posti visits the front door of some 2,8 million finns, and serves approximately 200,000 business
customers per year. the past year was a challenging one for posti. posti’s basic business is undergoing a
transformation as digitization erodes letter and publication delivery volumes at an annual rate of
approximately 10 percent. the effects of the reform of the postal act will become apparent in the near future.

posti is a state-owned company that operates on market terms, whose financial responsibility is based on
transparency and profitability. posti wants to grow profitably, as only a financially sound company can
implement its sustainability practices.

in its tax footprint reporting, posti adheres to the country-specific tax reporting guidelines for companies of
which the state is the majority shareholder, issued by the ownership steering department on october 1, 2014.

at posti, sustainability and responsibility are part of day-to-day work, management and risk management.
management is based on posti’s corporate values. good management supports the achievement of targets
and fosters a positive work atmosphere. posti’s corporate values are also the foundation of the posti corporate
responsibility principles. updated in fall 2016, they also take into account the un guiding principles on
business and human rights.

as a work community, posti is equal, international and diverse. the constantly changing business environment
and the pursuit of new growth give rise to new competence requirements. posti develops the competence of its
personnel in new services and their ability to address the opportunities of digitalizing business.

posti received 7,000 summer job applications during the year. posti provided summer jobs to approximately
2,500 people across finland. posti again participated in the national responsible summer job campaign.

posti’s goal is to provide healthy and safe work and a healthy and safe working environment for its employees.
in promoting safety at work, posti’s focus is on proactive measures. accident prevention is a shared
responsibility. while safety at work comes down to more than just shoes, using appropriate footwear is a
significant factor in safety. posti’s early-morning delivery personnel received new slip-resistant cold-weather
shoes for the winter.

posti’s environmental program aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020, in relation to
net sales (compared to 2007). posti was among the first to join the new energy efficiency agreement period
2017–2025. the agreement is a voluntary commitment to improve energy efficiency.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           1

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / sustainability at posti




posti uses only green electricity and, in the future, part of it will be produced by posti itself. last winter, posti
mounted 1,920 solar panels on the roof of its vantaa logistics center.

since 2011, posti has provided its customers with carbon neutral mail delivery in finland at no extra cost. posti
green services are part of posti’s environmental program. the product-specific posti green calculation process
and customer reporting was verified by a third party in summer 2016.

for more inspiring stories, please refer to the highlights of the year section.


areas of corporate responsibility
posti’s sustainability is divided into social responsibility, personnel responsibility, environmental responsibility
and financial responsibility. based on posti’s materiality analysis, the key areas of sustainability were defined
as being a responsible service provider, sustainable business, creating value for stakeholders and engaged
multi-skilled employees. rather than being separate, these areas overlap in many ways.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           2

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / sustainability at posti




indicators and targets of sustainability




                                   managing responsibility




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           3

posti annual report 2016                                                                            sustainability / sustainability at posti / managing responsibility




                                   managing responsibility
at posti, sustainability and responsibility are part of our daily work and management. management is based
on posti’s corporate values:

    succeeding with the customer,
    driving for improvement and innovation,
    taking responsibility, and
    winning together.

good management supports the achievement of these targets and fosters a
positive work atmosphere.

posti’s corporate values are also the foundation of the posti corporate
responsibility principles. the principles were updated in 2016. posti’s
responsibility policies take into account the un global compact principles, the
un guiding principles on business and human rights and the un sustainable
development goals (sdgs). the global compact principles comprise self-
regulation pertaining to human rights, the environment and corruption. the un
guiding principles specify a company’s responsibility with regard to human
rights and call on companies to respect human rights. the un sustainable development goals contain
guidelines aimed at ensuring sustainable development.

posti is committed to operating in a responsible and ethical manner. posti’s code of conduct, which is aimed
at the company’s personnel, covers legal and regulatory compliance, good business practices, principles
concerning equality and non-discrimination, the avoidance of conflicts of interest, the prohibition of unethical
commercial practices and environmental responsibility. the code of conduct also documents the principles
concerning the consequences of misconduct. the code of conduct also specifies the anonymous
whistleblowing channels established by the group for employees to confidentially report suspected cases of
misconduct or other problems.

the group’s partners are required to adhere to the corporate responsibility principles outlined by posti. posti’s
supplier code of conduct covers legal and regulatory compliance, good business practices, principles
concerning equality and non-discrimination, the avoidance of conflicts of interest, the prohibition of unethical
commercial practices and environmental responsibility.

sustainability is the responsibility of posti’s vice president, stakeholder relations. the vice president,
stakeholder relations is a member of the group management board. matters related to sustainability are
discussed at least once per year by the board’s audit committee and the management board.


management of sustainability risks
the objective of enterprise risk management is to safeguard the achievement of posti’s strategic and key
targets from unexpected risks and to enhance posti’s business opportunities and corporate image. for this
reason, the process is designed to support the strategy and annual planning process.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           4

posti annual report 2016                                                                            sustainability / sustainability at posti / managing responsibility




the risk management unit prepares information security guidelines and supports the management in
implementing them. in all group companies, the management is responsible for the management of business
risks.

risks related to sustainability are updated at least twice per year as part of posti’s enterprise risk
management process. they are reported as a separate item in the group’s risk report. sustainability risks are
discussed by the corporate responsibility steering group, the executive board, the board of directors of posti
group and the board’s audit committee.


taking sustainability risks into consideration
sustainability risks include, for example:

    risks related to potential personnel arrangements and, in particular, outsourcing measures, that may have
    a negative effect on our reputation and, consequently, cause us to lose customers;
    potential information leaks and information security deviations, particularly those related to personal
    information;
    potential accidents that cause substantial damage to people or the environment;
    potential human rights infringements;
    potential risks related to supplier management, involving corruption and the failure of internal control.
    these are particularly important in russia, poland and the baltic countries.

posti processes all information in strict confidence, taking information security requirements into account.
privacy is crucial to posti’s business. posti’s corporate security policies determine the minimum level for all of its
countries of operation. they take into account the information security requirements of posti customers, the
business environment and risk management. in terms of protection, posti considers as particularly important
customer and personnel information as well as posti’s and its partners’ confidential information and the
related systems and business processes.

the eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) sets out new provisions concerning the processing of
personal data. posti has prepared for the changes brought about by the new regulation by setting up a
preparatory project.

improving and promoting occupational safety are important development areas for posti. the focus is on
proactive measures. posti’s goal is to be a healthy and accident-free workplace.

the corporate responsibility principles were updated in 2016. the principles take into account, among other
things, the un guiding principles that specify a company’s responsibility with regard to human rights and call
on companies to respect human rights. as a work community, posti is equal, international and diverse.

posti has a group-wide uniform sourcing policy that defines how the sourcing function and supplier
cooperation are managed. as part of responsible sourcing, posti has defined its supplier code of conduct.
posti has around 8,000 suppliers, of which approximately one fifth are considered key suppliers. all key
suppliers are covered by a self-assessment system.

                                 responsible supply chain


this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           5

posti annual report 2016                                                                                     sustainability / sustainability at posti / supply chain




                                 responsible supply chain
uniform sourcing policy
posti is committed to sustainable business and bearing its responsibility with respect to society, the
environment and all of its stakeholders.

posti has a group-wide uniform sourcing policy that defines how the sourcing function and supplier
cooperation are managed. the sourcing policy supports posti’s strategy, environmental program and the
corporate responsibility principles. it outlines decision-making responsibilities and responsibility boundaries,
and it specifies the minimum requirements for the sourcing organization.

as part of responsible sourcing, posti has defined its supplier code of conduct. it covers legal and regulatory
compliance, good business practices, principles concerning equality and non-discrimination, the avoidance of
conflicts of interest, the prohibition of unethical commercial practices and environmental responsibility.

the group’s partners are required to adhere to the corporate responsibility principles. they take into account
the un global compact principles, the un guiding principles on business and human rights and the un
sustainable development goals (sdgs).

the compliance project in sourcing, which began in spring 2015, continued in 2016. the aim of the project is
to ensure that everyone in the group complies with the common practices. sourcing practices have been
improved in 2016; for example, the amount of maverick buying has been significantly reduced.


a partner that enables growth
through category management, posti has identified key suppliers with which the company develops
partnerships that enable mutual growth. in total, posti has nearly 8,000 suppliers, of which roughly one in five
are considered key suppliers.

posti prioritizes local suppliers in sourcing. of the suppliers approved in 2016, 81 percent were within the
scope of self-assessment in finland, representing a combined purchasing volume of eur 430 million. all key
suppliers carry out a self-assessment that involves an acceptance of the supplier code of conduct. some key
suppliers are strategic suppliers that are audited in accordance with a uniform process and model.


responsible sourcing networks: sedex and ecovadis
posti is part of two responsible sourcing networks: sedex (supplier ethical data exchange) and ecovadis.

sedex is the world’s largest cooperation platform for sharing information on ethical supply chains. sedex has
over 38,000 members representing more than 30 industries in over 150 countries.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           6

posti annual report 2016                                                                                     sustainability / sustainability at posti / supply chain




ecovadis helps businesses monitor their suppliers’ and partners’ operating practices related to ethical, social
and environmental issues in more than 110 countries. ecovadis assesses suppliers annually based on their
overall sustainability performance. posti received a gold rating for the performance in 2015. with a score of
65/100. posti was ranked among the top five percent of companies in ecovadis’ evaluation of corporate
sustainability in all industries.

                                                          highlights




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           7

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / sustainability at posti / highlights




                                                          highlights
                                      posti’s sustainability performance is deserving of a gold medal. posti was awarded
january–march gold-level recognition by the international ecovadis network for its sustainability
                                      performance in 2015. ecovadis is a responsible sourcing network for buyers and
                                      suppliers. it includes 25,000 suppliers representing 150 different industries and
                                      110 countries. the system assesses and scores the overall sustainability
                                      performance of suppliers annually in the areas of environmental responsibility,
                                      social responsibility, business ethics and sustainable sourcing.

                                      posti launched regular q&a with the ceo events in march. aimed at all personnel,
                                      the events feature members of the executive board answering questions from
                                      personnel on any topic related to posti. feedback, ideas, suggested solutions and
                                      discussions are also welcome in addition to questions.

                                      improving safety at work – posti’s early-morning delivery personnel received new
                                      slip-resistant cold-weather shoes for the winter. while safety at work comes down
                                      to more than just shoes, using appropriate footwear is a significant factor in safety.
                                      the most typical accident suffered by early-morning delivery personnel is slipping
                                      and tripping in staircases.

                                      the society's commitment to sustainable development is a long-term vision for the
april–june                            future of finland – “the finland we want in 2050”. participants in the initiative
                                      make actionable commitments to support the achievement of the shared goals
                                      stated in the society’s commitment to sustainable development. posti's goal is to
                                      reduce absolute carbon-dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020 (compared to
                                      2007). the commitment also supports the un sustainable development goal of
                                      taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts (sdg 13).

                                      posti organized the busting the myths of foreign talent seminar in may in
                                      cooperation with the fibs diversity network. the rapidly changing postal and
                                      logistics industry will see a growing need for diverse and international talents.
                                      posti’s employees in finland already represent more than 80 different nationalities.

                                      the association for finnish work granted posti ltd membership in the association
                                      and the right to use the key flag symbol.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           8

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / sustainability at posti / highlights




                                      all of posti’s services in finland are carbon neutral posti green services that
july–                                 generate no emissions for customers. the product-specific posti green calculation
september                             process and customer reporting was verified by a third party in summer 2016.

                                      posti provided summer jobs to approximately 2,500 people across finland. the
                                      majority of the summer workers were employed in mail and publication delivery
                                      operations. as in previous years, posti again participated in the national
                                      responsible summer job campaign.

                                      when new stamps are issued, the first day of issue is celebrated at the vapriikki
                                      museum center in tampere. collectors come to the event to pick up the first day’s
                                      postmark for their items bearing the new stamps and to buy other philatelic
                                      products. on september 9, wwf finland joined posti to celebrate the first day of
                                      issue of the new endangered animals stamps, which were produced in cooperation
                                      between posti and wwf with the aim of increasing awareness of endangered
                                      animals and their protection.

                                      posti’s representatives arimo siren and juhani vuola won gold at the ipc drivers’
october–                              challenge organized by the international post corporation in belgium. posti also
december                              won the competition in the previous year. the drivers’ challenge is part of the
                                      sustainable development program launched by ipc in 2009.

                                      home services won gold in the new business diversification of the year category
                                      in a competition organized by postal technology international. the competition
                                      had seven categories in total, with the category won by posti’s home services
                                      receiving a particularly large number of proposals.

                                      posti launched a specialist qualification in management focused on occupational
                                      safety management in 2016. the first batch completed the program in november
                                      2016 and the second batch will start in spring 2017. the advantages of the
                                      program include the opportunity for participants to obtain a vocational
                                      qualification as well as results that are reflected throughout the work community.


                                                                society




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           9

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                             sustainability / society




                                                                society
one stamped letter per month
postal services are facing a major transformation in europe as digitization reduces mail delivery volumes
substantially. lower volumes, strict regulations and the general rise in costs are significantly increasing the unit
costs of the delivered products. today’s mail delivery volumes are 30 percent lower than five years ago.

posti is the only operator in finland to provide five-day delivery services that cover the entire country. the
universal service obligation covers the entire country, with the exception of the åland islands. the finnish
communications regulatory authority supervises compliance with the obligation.

following the amendments to the finnish postal act in june 2016, the entire postal market is now open to free
competition. this means that posti’s competitors are allowed to deliver mail anywhere and at any time without
a specific delivery day obligation. posti, however, is still subject to the five-day delivery obligation throughout
the country, which puts posti on unequal footing with regard to competition with the other players in the
market.

posti’s universal service obligation currently covers a very small share of all postal items, namely letters and
postcards paid by stamps. in 2016, posti delivered some 2.1 billion items in total. of this amount,
approximately 109 million items (less than 6 percent) were covered by the universal service obligation.
christmas cards accounted for 28 million of these. christmas cards are sent over a period of just a few weeks.

finns currently receive an average of approximately 11 stamped letters per year, or about one letter per
month. the lower the volume of mail delivered, the higher the costs for each item. things must be done
differently to keep costs under control. otherwise, maintaining the universal service in the future will be under
threat financially. the second phase of the reform of the postal act is underway, with new amendments
expected to enter into force in june 1, 2017.

during the year, posti delivered items that fall within the scope of the universal service obligation on five
weekdays to all households in accordance with the postal act. in areas that are difficult to reach, posti
deviated from the five-weekday obligation in the case of approximately 91 households, with the maximum
allowed number being 300. posti processed 1,910 inquiries related to normal letters during the year. of these
inquiries, 652 were unresolved, 456 items were declared as having been lost, while 802 lost items were found.
inquiries related to letter items represented 0,00024 percent of the total volume.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           10

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                             sustainability / society




  a jubilee year for the postal museum
                                                                      the postal museum is an active 90-year-old. established in
                                                                      1926, the postal museum studies, records and exhibits
                                                                      historical and present-day phenomena related to postal
                                                                      operations, mail communications and data and goods
                                                                      traffic. maintained by the postal museum foundation, the
                                                                      museum is located in museum centre vapriikki in tampere.
                                                                      its collection includes artifacts and images from posti’s
                                                                      archives as well as all of the stamps ever published in
                                                                      finland. the postal museum also comprises a special
                                                                      library focused on the industry.

                                                     the finnish postage stamp remarkably celebrated its
                                                     160th anniversary in 2016. the mock-up sheet of finland’s
                                                     first stamps and the die used to produce the stamps are
                                                     exhibited at the postal museum. the postal museum is
  responsible for the archival, presentation and information services related to posti’s nearly 400-year
  corporate history. the museum also manages posti’s art collection.

  the relocation of the postal museum from helsinki to tampere in 2013–2014 has proved to be an excellent
  decision: the number of visitors has tripled and feedback from the public has been positive. the year 2016
  was a record year: the total number of visitors was 168,784. a high level of event activity and educational
  work with institutions ranging from day-care centers to universities are also part of the museum’s day-to-day
  operations. the postal museum engages in research collaboration with various universities and publishes the
  results of research both digitally and in traditional book format. one of the focus areas of the museum’s
  research activities has been communications in times of crisis and wartime correspondence.

  the exhibition activities in 2016 covered themes ranging from covert correspondence between jaegers to all
  the stamps of christmas, the story of the finnish humor magazine pahkasika and the illustration of posti’s
  long history and present-day challenges in the messengers exhibition. the postal museum also highlighted
  the change in the equipment used in mail transport and fixed up the first electricity-powered delivery vehicle,
  a 1992 elcat. the vehicle was included in the exhibition from minivans to pick-ups – the history of delivery
  vehicles and transportation held at the national automobile and road museum mobilia. the postal museum
  cooperates on a networked basis with various parties and is a member of international networks. the postal
  museum will hold special events to celebrate the centenary of finland’s independence!




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           11

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                             sustainability / society




transparency and profitability are at the core of financial
responsibility
posti’s financial responsibility is based on transparency and profitability. posti wants to grow profitably, as
only a financially sound company can implement its sustainability practices. posti complies with responsible
business practices in all of its operations.

posti plans its finances from a long-term perspective, anticipating changes in the market, customer demands
and risk scenarios in finland and abroad. posti develops innovative and efficient solutions in both physical
and digital services.

posti is a state-owned company that operates on market terms. posti’s operations are entirely based on the
revenue received from the customers. posti bears its financial responsibility through the renewal of its business
and by improving its profitability in line with its strategy.

posti’s financial targets are: the operating profit is more than 5 percent, the return on capital is at least 10
percent, gearing does not exceed 35 percent and more than 10 percent of the group’s net sales will come
from new business areas in 2018. the financial impact of posti’s operations is comparable to those of the
banking and telecommunications sectors, as the services are used by hundreds of thousands of private and
public sector operators every day, in addition to consumers.


financial impact in accordance with the income statement




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           12

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                             sustainability / society




posti supports development and well-being throughout the country. the group’s operations span the entire
country, and posti is an important employer in finland. at the end of 2016, posti had 20,497 employees in
finland. in addition to providing employment, posti’s operations generate well-being in and tax revenue for
finland.


the geographical distribution of posti’s employees in finland on
december 31, 2016




                                                      tax footprint




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           13

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / society / tax footprint




                                                      tax footprint
in its tax footprint reporting, posti adheres to the country-specific tax reporting guidelines for companies of
which the state is the majority shareholder, provided by the ownership steering department on october 1,
2014.


tax strategy
all companies in the group have committed to operating responsibly and to meeting all obligations and
requirements defined by the valid legislation of each country. posti group companies pay their taxes in the
countries in which their actual business operations take place. all taxes are to be paid on time without delay.
the group’s long-term target is to ensure that the group’s effective tax rate is at the same level as the
corporate income tax rate valid in finland at each particular time.

according to the group’s tax strategy, taxation is always a consequence of business operations, which means
that tax solutions must also be based on business needs. posti does not practice tax planning that would aim
at artificially decreasing the group’s taxable income. in tax-related issues, the group operates within the
framework of legislation and legal practice in planning the taxable profit of group companies. this can
include the utilization of tax losses accrued in a subsidiary or the granting of group contributions, for example.
in transfer pricing between subsidiaries, posti aims to always ensure that the prices are market-based. to
clarify taxation practices, some situations may involve contacting the tax authorities for either verbal
guidance or a written decision on the taxation treatment of the planned action.


management of tax-related issues
the management of tax-related issues is centralized to the group finance unit, which is responsible for
managing and monitoring tax-related issues at the group level. decisions related to taxation are made at the
group level. significant matters of principle are presented to the parent company’s board of directors for
decision-making. the group’s cfo reports regularly on taxation-related issues to the group’s audit committee.
the key task of the management of tax-related issues is to ensure that all group companies comply with the
regulations of tax legislation in all countries of operation. tax risk management is part of the group’s risk
management process.


principles observed in tax reporting
posti reports its tax footprint openly and transparently. the group highlights potential decisions by the tax
authorities and appeals concerning decisions by the tax authorities where such decisions and appeals have a
material impact on the group’s tax position.

the information presented in this report is based on information collected from the group’s accounting
systems. taxes refer to taxes or tax-like fees paid to public sector entities, whether they are paid or remitted by
the company. the nature and amount of taxes vary significantly from country to country. taxes payable refer
to taxes paid by the group companies which are, as a rule, expensed in the company’s financial statements.
taxes remitted refer to taxes or fees collected by the companies which are remitted to tax collectors, often on
behalf of parties other than the company itself.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           14

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / society / tax footprint




the company has restricted its tax reporting to only cover substantial operating countries. based on this
decision, country-specific tax information is only presented for finland and russia. nearly 85% of the group’s
net sales comes from these countries. according to the group’s strategy, these countries are its main markets.
other operating countries are grouped under scandinavia and other countries. posti also uses the same
geographical categorization in its consolidated financial statements.

for countries other than finland and russia, information is presented on a country group-specific basis as the
information reported is not of material importance and the presentation of country-specific information might
jeopardize the non-disclosure of confidential information, such as customer or pricing details. from the group’s
perspective, the amount of information reported is not of material importance when the taxes payable for an
individual country do not exceed eur 5 million.

the group operates in ten countries. in addition, posti has companies in countries where the group no longer
has business operations. when assessing the materiality threshold, net sales of eur 1 million for each
individual subsidiary is considered the threshold for non-materiality. non-material companies are excluded
from the reporting, as the amount of taxes paid by the companies is minor in proportion to the figures
disclosed by the group. these companies are in the categories scandinavia and other countries.

posti does not have any operations in countries classified as tax havens, where the corporate income tax rate
is significantly lower than the finnish corporate tax rate. the information presented below is based on the
financial statements of separate companies and the information has not been consolidated except net sales.


the group's tax footprint
 2016, meur                                               finland                      russia             scandinavia             other countries

 net sales                                               1,261.9                       104.6                      133.2                            107.7

 result before taxes                                       -191.3                         -3.2                        7.2                               0.5
 number of personnel                                      14,141                       2,468                         375                           1,539

 paid taxes                                                   46.3                         6.8                        5.0                               3.4

 remitted taxes                                             261.7                          8.0                      16.7                                6.8
 received public support                                        0.1                        0.0                        0.0                               0.1




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           15

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / society / tax footprint




 2015, meur                                               finland                      russia             scandinavia             other countries

 net sales                                               1,265.3                       118.5                      140.4                            126.1

 result before taxes                                        133.9                       -14.6                        -9.7                               0.6
 number of personnel                                       16,874                      2,809                         417                           1,498

 paid taxes                                                   43.7                         7.5                        5.6                               5.0
 remitted taxes                                             274.8                        10.4                       13.5                                6.8

 received public support                                        0.1                        0.0                        0.0                               0.2



remitted taxes by category and by geographical area
 remitted taxes 2016,                                                                                                                           other
 thousand eur                                      total               finland                 russia         scandinavia                    countries

 value added taxes                            165,150                 148,659                    4,862               10,083                        1,546
 salary taxes                                 127,560                 112,920                    2,878                 6,627                       5,135

 other taxes                                        548                    165                    300                         0                          83



 remitted taxes 2015,                                                                                                                           other
 thousand eur                                      total               finland                 russia         scandinavia                    countries

 value added taxes                            172,389                 155,400                    6,505                 8,918                       1,566
 salary taxes                                 132,154                 119,262                    3,206                 4,463                       5,223

 other taxes                                        830                      79                   646                       88                           17




the group’s tax position in 2016
in 2016, the group’s effective tax rate was 21.5 percent (2015: 17.1 percent). the effective tax rate is
calculated based on accrual-based income taxes and changes in deferred taxes. the increase in the tax rate
was primarily attributable to changes in deferred taxes associated with the utilization in finland of tax losses
recognized by foreign subsidiaries. the group’s accrual-based income taxes for the financial year, excluding
the effect of changes in deferred taxes, amounted to eur 4.4 million. the group received tax refund for
previous financial years amounting to eur 3.8 million.

posti group corporation has lodged an appeal with the board of adjustment in large taxpayer’s office
regarding a decision made by the large taxpayer’s office in 2015 to reject the utilization of tax losses by a
foreign subsidiary that was merged with the company. the appeal concerns capital amounting to eur 39.0
million. the matter is still pending in the board of adjustment.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           16

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / society / tax footprint




in a decision made in october 2016, the large taxpayer’s office partly rejected posti group corporation’s
claim to deduct in taxation the tax losses of a foreign subsidiary that was merged with posti group
corporation in 2015 as well as the deductibility of losses on the disposal of a foreign property company. the
total value of these items is approximately eur 20 million. the company considers the tax authorities’ decision
erroneous and has lodged an appeal with the board of adjustment in large taxpayer’s office. at the same
time, however, the large taxpyer’s office approved approximately eur 36 million of the merged foreign
subsidiary’s tax losses as deductible.

posti ltd was informed in january 2017 of the tax authorities’ decision, according to which the adjustment to
the recognition of revenue from pre-paid services is a deductible expense in the company’s income taxation
for 2016. this adjustment reduced the company’s income taxes payable by eur 5.3 million.


taxes by category and by geographical area
 paid taxes 2016,                                                                                                                               other
 thousand eur                                      total               finland                 russia         scandinavia                    countries

 income taxes                                   18,254                17,878*                     319                      16                            41
 real estate taxes                                2,868                  1,931                    937                         0                             0

 employer taxes                                 24,956                 11,035                   5,585                  4,976                       3,360
 environmental taxes                            13,516                 13,482                         0                       0                          34
 other taxes                                      1,970                  1,970                        0                       0                             0


 *) includes income tax in the amount of eur 10,188 thousand paid during 2016, but allocated to 2015.


 paid taxes 2015,                                                                                                                               other
 thousand eur                                      total               finland                 russia         scandinavia                    countries

 income taxes                                   18,092                 16,061                     345                    490                       1,196

 real estate taxes                                3,675                  2,588                  1,087                         0                             0
 employer taxes                                 26,278                 11,240                   6,082                  5,115                       3,841
 environmental taxes                            13,184                 13,184                         0                       0                             0

 other taxes                                        567                    567                        0                       0                             0




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           17

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / society / tax footprint




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           18

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / society / tax footprint




                       cooperation with stakeholders




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           19

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / society / stakeholders




                       cooperation with stakeholders
it is important for posti to actively engage its stakeholders. posti keeps in contact with its stakeholders through
open communication and dialog. stakeholder relations are managed with confidentiality, integrity and
fairness. posti’s key stakeholders are customers, personnel, personnel organizations, the state as the owner,
political decision-makers, the authorities, associations, and the media as well as posti's partners in
subcontracting, research and the industry.

posti conducted an extensive stakeholder survey at the turn of 2015–2016. the survey assessed stakeholders’
views regarding the regulation of the postal industry, the future of the industry, as well as their perceptions
related to sustainability. the amendments that made up the first phase of the reform of the finnish postal act
entered into force in june 2016. the second phase of amendments is expected to take effect in spring 2017.
posti has actively engaged in discussions with its stakeholders throughout the different phases of the postal
act reform process. the next extensive stakeholder survey will be conducted after the amendments have
entered into force. the reform of the postal act has initiated a lot of discussion, some of which has been quite
emotional.

posti engages in active dialog with its partners and networks regarding the focus areas of the industry and
sustainable development. these partners and networks include the international postal industry associations
posteurop, upu (universal postal union) and ipc (international post corporation), service sector employers
palta, the finnish federation for communications and teleinformatics (ficom), fibs cr network and the
global compact network. posti is a member of the aforementioned associations and networks.


developing the measurement of the customer experience
the customer experience is very important for posti. posti requests feedback from its customers on a continuous
basis to support the development of its operations. in 2016, posti developed its indicators of customer
satisfaction. some of the indicators were implemented in fall 2016, some in early 2017. due to the extensive
changes in this area, comprehensive data is not available for the year 2016.

the goal is to quickly obtain concrete feedback on specific transactions. ongoing automated questionnaires
produce more accurate data than traditional interviews conducted less frequently. when feedback can be
linked to specific transactions, corrective actions are easier and faster to take.

posti currently has approximately 15 measurement points linked to specific transactions. the plan is to
increase the number of measurement points going forward. this represents a significant investment in the
continuous collection and utilization of data on the customer experience. project-specific customer satisfaction
surveys are also used.

the content of the customer satisfaction survey aimed at business customers was developed in 2016. the
focus is on the customer–supplier relationship or, in other words, what posti is like as a partner.

                                                           personnel


this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           20

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                           sustainability / personnel




                                                           personnel
developing professional competence
posti is the largest corporate employer in finland. posti wants to be the best employer in its industry, one that
adheres to shared values in all aspects of its operations. as a work community, posti is equal, international and
diverse.

the constantly changing business environment and the pursuit of new growth give rise to new competence
requirements. posti develops the competence of the personnel in new services and their ability to address the
opportunities of digitalizing business. needs are assessed in personal target and development discussions.

skilled and motivated personnel are an essential starting point for posti’s success and good results.
professional development is supported by providing employees with opportunities for on-the-job learning,
support for self-motivated study and access to a range of training courses. the digital transformation of the
business environment calls for new know-how, the capacity to learn new things and the ability to quickly adapt
to changing circumstances.

at the supervisor and expert level, special focus is placed on supporting change management. in production,
the line management training program for supervisors will continue with a focus on regionality and ensuring
that the themes of the training are current. good management is reflected not only in higher productivity, but
also the commitment, well-being and competence development of posti’s personnel.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           21

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                           sustainability / personnel




using the tools of service design
the development of competencies related to the customer experience and service design supports the
strategic goals of posti’s business and organization. posti markets products and processes developed in
cooperation with customers, which means that there is a clear and validated customer and business need for
them. existing products are developed according to the same principle. a better customer experience helps
posti differentiate itself from its competitors.

in service design development programs, a multi-talented team is formed for each project right from the start.
this means that the service being developed will be examined from a variety of perspectives. broad
participation also creates more commitment among different functions towards the service being developed.
customer interviews in various stages of the development process are a key element of the projects.
approximately 100 posti employees participated in service design training in 2016. in addition, more than
10,000 consumer and business customers participated in interviews concerning the services being developed.

the service design development programs have led to initiatives such as the befriending service, the helposti
code and the posti.fi mailer’s instructions website, and the programs have also contributed to the development
of the online grocery shopping concept. now ideas are being developed, also in a business-led manner.


people responsibility indicators
at the end of the year, posti employed a total of 20,497 people. the average number of personnel was
20,632. a total of 16,160 people on average were employed in finland.

of the total personnel, 81 percent are covered by collective labor agreements. in finland, 99 percent of posti’s
personnel are covered by collective labor agreements. the baltic countries, poland and russia do not have
binding collective labor agreements. the employees represented by the labor protection committee make up
78 percent of posti’s total personnel. in finland, the ratio between the basic salaries of women and men was
97 percent.


number of operating locations
                                                                                                                    2016                         2015

 finland                                                                                                              563                          596

 russia                                                                                                                 15                            21
 other countries                                                                                                        25                            30

 total                                                                                                                603                          647

personnel per country on december 31, 2016




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           22

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                           sustainability / personnel




personnel per country on december 31, 2016
                                                                                                                    2016                         2015

 finland                                                                                                          16,052                     16,874
 russia                                                                                                             2,553                       2,809

 poland                                                                                                               620                          568
 sweden                                                                                                               229                          260
 estonia                                                                                                              378                          419

 norway                                                                                                               144                          157
 denmark                                                                                                                  0                             0
 latvia                                                                                                                 94                         164

 lithuania                                                                                                            278                          259
 germany                                                                                                              146                             88
 other (usa)                                                                                                              3                             0

 total                                                                                                            20,497                     21,598




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           23

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                           sustainability / personnel




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           24

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                           sustainability / personnel




women made up 38 percent and men 62 percent of the group's employees. posti’s supervisory board has 12
members and the board of directors has eight members. the executive board is composed of nine members,
and the management board is composed of 15 members. the supervisory board and the board of directors
have had an equal number of men and women as members, while men have constituted the majority of the
executive board and management board.

the share of the personnel within the scope of regular personal development discussions and performance
reviews is approximately 2,000 people. the discussions are held at least twice a year. with the people working
in production in finland, the accomplishments of the previous year as well as the objectives and targets for the
coming year are discussed with the working group once a year. in addition, a personal discussion is held in
relation to personal development and well-being at work.

posti received a total of 30,100 job applications during the year. in finland, posti signed 289 new permanent
employment relationships (acquisitions not included). there is substantial seasonal variation in posti. the
number of seasonal employees is highest in the summer and around christmas. posti provided summer jobs to
2,500 people. during the christmas peak period, posti employed 3,200 seasonal assistants across finland.
most of the seasonal assistants worked in mail delivery, sorting and transportation.

the following tables and charts illustrate the employee leaving rate in finland, the breakdown of employment
contracts, the length of employees’ careers and the age distribution of personnel.


employee leaving rate in finland
 leaving rate, finland                                                                                                              leaving rate

 females                                                                                                                                       19.2%
 under 25 years                                                                                                                                29.8%
 25–34 years                                                                                                                                   18.1%
 35–44 years                                                                                                                                   13.8%

 45–54 years                                                                                                                                   10.1%
 55 years or older                                                                                                                             32.3%

 males                                                                                                                                         12.7%
 under 25 years                                                                                                                                27.8%
 25–34 years                                                                                                                                   15.7%

 35–44 years                                                                                                                                   10.7%
 45–54 years                                                                                                                                      4.4%
 55 years or older                                                                                                                             19.1%

 total                                                                                                                                         14.9%


 total leaving rate 14.9% without seasonal employees




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           25

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                           sustainability / personnel




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           26

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                           sustainability / personnel




                                      responsible employer




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           27

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / personnel / responsible employer




                                      responsible employer
posti’s voice employee survey is aimed at all employees. the questionnaire was conducted in september in
finland, russia, estonia, latvia and lithuania. a total of 11,380 posti employees completed the questionnaire,
which represents 70 percent of all personnel (2015: 62 percent).

the questionnaire’s key indicators are the dedication index (38 percent, 2015: 47 percent) and the
performance facilitation index (52 percent, 2015: 58 percent). the results reflect the fact that posti is in a
period of transformation. the future is seen as uncertain. however, the results indicate differences between
units. posti is a large organization that is undergoing rapid changes.

the results of the questionnaire have been discussed by the executive board. a number of common themes
were included in the action plan for 2017: prioritizing activities, highlighting the positives, management
having an active presence in day-to-day operations and increasing dialogue within the organization.

opuscapita’s employee survey emphasized the practical implementation of culture management. the
questionnaire was conducted in fall 2016. a total of 1,633 employees completed the questionnaire, which
represents 84 percent of all personnel (2015: 81 percent). the questionnaire emphasized the realization of
credibility, respect, fairness, pride and camaradarie in the company. the respondents rated the statements in
the questionnaire on a scale of 1–5. the results indicate the percentage of respondents who somewhat agree
or fully agree with the statements (responses 4 and 5 on the scale). the result for 2016 was 65 percent, which
represents an improvement from the previous year (2015: 61 percent). this is a significant improvement
considering the size of the company. opuscapita benchmarks its performance mainly against the largest
multinational corporations in europe. the target is to elevate the result to a level above 70 percent.


a fresh start with the help of the uusi polku program
the delivery volumes of letters and publications are decreasing rapidly as a result of digital communications.
posti’s business is undergoing a major transformation. posti has had to conduct a number of cooperation
negotiations based on production and financial reasons with personnel representatives. as a responsible
employer, posti invests in helping its personnel cope with the changes brought about by the circumstances. it is
important for posti to seek solutions related to personnel impacts in cooperation with personnel organizations.

uusi polku (new path) is a support program for posti’s personnel launched in january 2014. by the end of
2016, a total of 2,523 employees had applied for the program, and 1,782 had been accepted. the program
was established to provide financial and personal support to posti employees interested in building a new
career path through a new job, studying or entrepreneurship.

posti is actively monitoring the effectiveness of the program for its participants. a total of 92 program
participants have found a new occupation. in 2016, personnel reductions amounted to 1,383 person-years.
out of this total, 417 person-years were related to production and finance, 39 person-years were reduced
through voluntary resignation and pension plans, 857 person-years were reduced via the uusi polku program,
and 70 person-years were reduced in relation to acquisitions.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           28

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / personnel / responsible employer




responsible summer job campaign
posti received a total of 7,000 summer job applications and provided summer jobs to approximately 2,500
people across finland. while the majority of the summer workers were employed in mail and publication
delivery operations, some also worked in sorting, transport, warehouses, customer service and administration.

as in previous years, posti again participated in the national responsible summer job campaign. the
campaign has seen posti make a commitment to the principles of a good summer employer.

a summer job gives young people the opportunity to learn more about working life. posti wants to offer young
people unique experiences and diverse duties. a large proportion of posti’s summer workers are students, many
of whom come back to work summers at posti time after time.

               occupational safety and well-being




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           29

posti annual report 2016                                                                            sustainability / personnel / occupational safety and well-being




               occupational safety and well-being
on the path toward an accident-free workplace
posti invests in the well-being of its employees. posti aims to promote well-being for its personnel and their
ability to cope with work to ensure that employees are motivated and healthy. putting well-being at work into
practice is part of the daily work of supervisors. every posti employee is also responsible for their own well-
being and for promoting psychological well-being in the working community.

posti’s goal is to provide healthy and safe work and a healthy and safe working environment for its employees.
in promoting safety at work, posti’s focus is on proactive measures. accident prevention is a shared
responsibility.

mail is delivered five days a week, regardless of the weather. the frequency of occupational accidents remains
regrettably high. a total of 1,845 accidents were recorded in 2016 (2015: 2,072). these figures include
occupational accidents at workplace and commuting accidents which led to an absence.

improving and promoting occupational safety are important development areas for posti. this work is done
consistently in three areas:


1. a systematic approach to the management of occupational safety
2. increasing competence and awareness
3. procedures, working methods and tools

posti’s goal is to be a healthy and accident-free workplace. the management of occupational safety is a
precondition for achieving safety objectives. increasing competence and awareness helps enforce best
practices and develop the company culture. appropriate tools also ensure a smooth workflow. posti has
committed to the following five safety principles:


1. safety comes first
2. responsibility for safety management belongs to posti’s leadership and managers
3. safety starts with me
4. posti is committed to working together throughout the organization to develop our safety
5. workplace safety improvement in posti is consistent and systematic


developing procedures and competencies
managing safety risks lays the foundation for a safe operating environment. workplace surveys and risk
assessments are ongoing activities at posti.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           30

posti annual report 2016                                                                            sustainability / personnel / occupational safety and well-being




posti has implemented company-level minimum requirements for adopting systematic approaches and
harmonizing working methods. compliance with these requirements is evaluated by internal assessment
processes.

in 2015, posti partnered with the institute of marketing to launch a specialist qualification in management
focused on occupational safety management. the first batch completed the program in fall 2016 and the
second batch will start in spring 2017. the training program is aimed at managers and supervisors in
production operations. the advantages of the program include the opportunity for participants to obtain a
vocational qualification as well as results that are reflected throughout the work community.

the results of the program can be seen in the work community as a whole. by promoting and strengthening
occupational safety procedures, the participants in the program help build a culture of safety at work.

occupational safety training tailored to posti’s requirements was also introduced in 2016, with more than 200
posti employees participating.

the two-year project of the finnish meteorological institute focused on reducing commuting accidents through
the development road condition warnings and supported by the finnish work environment fund concluded in
2016. the project made use of, among other things, posti’s accident records and the observations of helsinki-
based postal workers, who are on the move every day, regardless of the weather. the project’s participants
were the finnish meteorological institute, the finnish institute of occupational health, vaisala and posti. its
results will be published in the finnish meteorological institute’s publications for 2017 (fmi publications). posti
has also participated in the "stay upright" campaign since 2012.


accidents
posti monitors the frequency of workplace accidents that lead to absences (lta1; occupational accidents per
million working hours). in 2016, the lta1 figure was 41. this figure includes occupational accidents that
occurred during working hours and led to an absence of at least one day (excluding opuscapita). taking
commuting accidents into account, the total number of occupational accidents in 2016 was 1,845, which is
11 percent lower than in 2015.

large part (55 percent) of the accidents lead to a short-term absence from work. in 2016, the number of
accidents that led to more than a month-long absence from work was 107 (2015: 131). this means that 6
percent of the accidents that occurred in 2016 led to a long-term absence from work.


accidents and sickness related absences*




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           31

posti annual report 2016                                                                            sustainability / personnel / occupational safety and well-being




accidents and sickness related absences*
                                                                               2016            2015               2014                2013             2012

 sickness related absences (%)                                                    6.6              6.2                6.2                 5.7              5.9
 lost time accidents (number)                                                    963           1,046             1,089                1,306           1,329

 accident frequency**                                                           41.3             43.3                  41               46.7             48.7



 *) group level, finland
 **) excluding opuscapita



maintaining health and work ability
posti introduced the omatyöterveys telephone service in the fall to harmonize practices and help employees
maintain their health and work ability. a corresponding service was previously piloted for one year. following
positive feedback from both employees and supervisors, a corresponding common practice was implemented
for all of the personnel. the telephone service involves health care professionals assessing the employee’s
situation, providing health-related counseling, granting short-term sick leave and, if necessary, referring the
employee to occupational health care. the new service means that employees do not need to travel while sick
to visit occupational health care.

in order to harmonize procedures, the esimieskompassi (supervisor compass) system was made available to
all posti's supervisors in fall 2016 to support the management of absences and work ability. a corresponding
system was previously piloted for one year. the feedback was positive and the work ability management
system has provided concrete support in the day-to-day management of work ability.

in addition to occupational health care services, posti provides a diverse range of well-being services to
employees. they include various sports and fitness services, support for independent physical exercise as well
as support for workplace meals. since 2006, posti has also had its own foundation for well-being at work
that is tasked with promoting the psychological and physical health of employees. the foundation’s
operations are divided into measures improving well-being at work and research activities. the foundation
organizes various sporting events, fitness overhaul campaigns and active family vacations.

posti is currently implementing changes to managerial work, taking work ergonomics into consideration. for
posti, the best way to influence the strain of mail delivery work is to develop mail delivery tools and to instruct
employees to use appropriate and varied working methods.

posti continued to produce ergonomics guidelines and videos in 2016. posti has also commissioned studies to
evaluate work ergonomics and measure the strain arising from work.


disability pensions and retirement*




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           32

posti annual report 2016                                                                            sustainability / personnel / occupational safety and well-being




disability pensions and retirement*
                                                                               2016            2015               2014                2013             2012

 disability pensions                                                               77              68                  78                  76               84
 part-time disability pensions                                                     80              80                  62                  74            103
 total disability pensions                                                       157             148                140                  150             187

 average age for retiring on disability pension                                 56.2               56               56.3                56.7             56.5
 average retirement age                                                         61.4             62.5               62.5                60.9             60.7
 retired                                                                         281             320                301                  342             315



 *) group level, finland




                                                                           for example, the various ways of using the ergo bag
                                                                           and their effects on the physical strain of work were
                                                                           studied in cooperation with the tts work efficiency
                                                                           institute. the study applied methods including heart
                                                                           rate measurements, analyses of the position and
                                                                           movements of the head and upper limbs, assessing the
                                                                           exertion associated with work by means of the borg
                                                                           rpe scale, time measurements and electromyography
                                                                           (emg). the results will be used directly by employees
                                                                           and they will also be utilized in cooperation with posti’s
                                                                           occupational health care professionals.




                                                      environment




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           33

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                         sustainability / environment




                                                      environment
posti’s environmental management is based on environmental management standards, particularly iso
14001, as well as legal and official requirements and the un’s global compact principles and sustainable
development goals (sdgs). posti’s quality and environmental policy covers all countries of operation.

environmental issues are discussed both in the management board and the audit committee at least once a
year as part of more extensive corporate responsibility reporting. the targets for environmental work are
determined by the corporate responsibility steering group. the business groups determine more detailed
operating programs as part of their management model.

employees’ awareness of environmental issues is promoted through training and employee orientation as part
of the iso 14001 management system. environmental issues are also regularly discussed in the channels of
internal communication. at the end of 2016, certified environmental management systems covered 83
percent (2015: 88 percent) of the group’s personnel. the warehouses in russia also follow an environmental
management system pursuant to iso 14001.

posti’s environmental program aims to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020, in proportion
to net sales (compared to 2007).


improving energy efficiency
posti was among the first to join the new energy efficiency agreement period 2017-2025. the agreement is a
voluntary commitment to improve energy efficiency. posti signed the agreement for the second time now.

posti aims to reduce the energy consumption of its facilities by 10.5 percent during the review period 2014–
2025. the relevant measures concern the properties with the highest rates of energy consumption. in many
locations, lighting technology about to become obsolete was replaced with led lights during 2016. the work
will continue in 2017. changes to lighting control have also been carried out at many locations. lighting is
responsible for nearly 60 percent of the energy consumption in posti’s facilities.


1,920 solar panels on the roof of the logistics center in vantaa
posti uses only green electricity and, in the future, part of it will be produced by posti itself. last winter, posti
mounted 1,920 solar panels on the roof of its vantaa logistics center. the nominal power of the plant is 500
kw. its calculated annual output is 450,000 kw. this is equal to the annual consumption of approximately 25
detached houses. posti uses all of the energy itself, because the logistics center operates around the clock.


to ensure sustainable development, posti has undertaken to:
    comply with all applicable environmental laws and standards, including iso 14001;
    reduce the fuel consumption of its vehicles;
    reduce the energy consumption of its facilities;
    improve recycling and reduce landfill waste;
    consider environmental aspects in sourcing, subcontracting and investment decisions;




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           34

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                         sustainability / environment




    engage in open discussion with its stakeholders to minimize its environmental impact;
    ensure sufficient resources for maintaining and continually improving its environmental operations; and
    report its environmental impact annually and provide employees with information and the opportunity to
    operate in an environmentally efficient manner.




recycling of work clothing
in the spring of 2016, posti began to recycle valuable and usable work clothing. extra, usable work clothing is
sent to the warehouse of the work clothing supplier, where the clothing is washed, repaired and labelled and
recycled. in the warehouse, recycled work clothing is placed on top of the piles. when ordering new work
clothing, recycled clothing is always received first. for now, work clothing that is unfit for recycling ends up
being utilized in energy production or as mixed waste.


up to 99 percent of waste already recovered
posti has centralized its waste management services to a single operator in finland. this ensures energy
efficiency and cost-effectiveness. the aim of waste management is to increase the amount of recoverable
waste and minimize landfill waste. posti aims to improve the recovery rate by one percent every year. in 2016,
the recovery rate was already at 99 percent (2015: 98 percent) and the recycling rate was 66 percent. each
of posti’s iso 14001 certified operating locations has a documented waste management plan. it includes a
list of what waste fractions the property collects, related operating models, and illustrations of the placement
of waste containers at the property. the volumes of waste per fraction are presented in more detail under
indicators.

                       green logistics and posti green


this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           35

posti annual report 2016                                                                              sustainability / environment / green logistics and posti green




                       green logistics and posti green
the vast majority, approximately 85 percent, of posti’s carbon-dioxide emissions in finland arise from
transports and vehicle emissions. as the largest transport and delivery company in finland, posti plays a major
role in the development of eco-friendly and energy efficient transportation systems. the environmental
efficiency of transport operations is improved primarily by planning routes efficiently, ensuring a high
utilization rate, combining deliveries, and driving in an environmentally responsible manner.

posti’s fleet of nearly 3,900 commercial vehicles in finland recorded a total of 114 million kilometers in 2016
(2015: 108 million km). posti’s subcontractors logged in roughly 80 million kilometers (2015: 85 million km).

posti is a pioneer, and participates actively in the trials of alternative fuels. posti’s fleet includes some 40
biogas vehicles that run on the 100-percent renewable finnish gasum biogas. its use does not generate fine
particulate matters harmful to health, and the greenhouse gas emissions during the fuel’s life cycle are minor.

mail is also delivered on bicycles and on foot. every day, around 1,800 delivery routes – approximately 36
percent of all routes – are gone through with delivery bikes and delivery carts, on foot. the majority of these
are e-assist bikes and carts.

increasing the number of electric cars in delivery is challenging. electric cars that are compatible with the
winter conditions in finland and meet the criteria set by every aspect of delivery have so far not been
available on the market. the car must be able to transport enough load and to operate at least reasonable
routes without recharging in between, also in winter conditions. the lack of extensive network is a challenge
itself.


significant cost benefits through the improvement of utilization rates
significant changes in the operating model and the use of vehicles took place in 2015. the same strategy
continued to be implemented in 2016. the same vehicles are used to carry mail, parcels and freight. the fleet
is renewed continuously to respond to changing needs. the utilization rates of vehicles have improved
considerably due to route optimization and the combining of transports. posti engages in active development
work to increase the fleet’s utilization rate.

the improved utilization rate has brought cost benefits through lower vehicle costs and the vehicles’ reduced
fuel and servicing costs. in delivery vehicles, the average consumption of fuel has increased despite good
driving habits and more advanced engine technology. the vehicles’ loading rates and the weights of the
transported loads have increased. these have a direct impact on fuel consumption.


economic and safe driving habits make a difference
since 2015, every vehicle in posti’s own use has been equipped with a system that monitors driving habits. the
system is a daily tool in production activities, including supervisory work, planning, and operations
management. in the spring of 2016, driving habit monitoring devices were fitted into more than 400 trailers.
these collect data on the kilometers driven, as well as telematics and gps data, which are used in periodic
servicing and dispatching.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           36

posti annual report 2016                                                                              sustainability / environment / green logistics and posti green




since the roll-out of the system, posti has successfully reduced fuel and servicing costs. it has also been
successful in improving occupational safety. the number of traffic accidents has declined, particularly the
number of accidents involving personal injuries. the trend in insurance statistics has been positive; the number
of traffic accidents has reduced and the damage repair costs have fallen.

the scope of the monitoring now covers approximately 8,000 people. every driver receives a regular report, or
a link through which to print a report, on their own driving habits. the report allows drivers to monitor the
development of their driving habits. a personal driving habit index helps drivers to develop a more economic
way of driving (ecodriving) and promote safe driving habits. if necessary, driving habits are intervened in
according to the process.

the data collected with the driving habit monitoring devices and the usage targets are developed actively.
development targets include the safety of production, efficiency, quality, customer experiences and new
services.


posti green
since 2011, posti has provided its customers with carbon neutral mail delivery at no extra cost. in 2015, posti
expanded the posti green product portfolio to cover the parcel and logistics business in addition to postal
services. posti green services are part of posti’s environmental program.

climate change is a global issue. posti’s industry is very large, and the company wants to contribute to
mitigating climate change while serving as an example of sustainability to others. using posti green products
allows customers to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of their supply chain processes and communicate the
environmental responsibility of their operations to their customers.

arranging zero-carbon transport services is practically impossible. emissions are necessarily created in spite of
posti’s continuous efforts to reduce co2 emissions from transport; for example, by optimizing routes,
combining transports and ensuring economical driving.


certified climate projects
transporting a letter generates around 28 grams of carbon dioxide and transporting a parcel generates
approximately 700 grams. posti offsets its emissions balance by participating in certified climate projects. the
projects ensure that a corresponding amount is cut from carbon dioxide emissions somewhere else.

the projects posti is involved in include wind power projects in india and turkey. the renewable energy
generated by the farms reduces emissions by replacing fossil fuels. the projects also have a regional job
creation effect.


posti green service model
all of posti’s services in finland are carbon neutral posti green services that generate no emissions for
customers. the product-specific posti green calculation process and customer reporting was verified by a third
party in summer 2016.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           37

posti annual report 2016                                                                              sustainability / environment / green logistics and posti green




                                                           indicators




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           38

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / environment / indicators




                                                           indicators
en3 energy consumption within the organization
 terajoules (tj)                                                                 2016           2015           2014               2013                2012

 direct energy consumption
 renewable
 biogas                                                                                2              1              4                   2                   1

 non-renewable – facilities and own vehicles
 natural gas                                                                       157            158            267                 165                188

 fuel oil                                                                              0              0              1                   1                   5
 traffic fuel                                                                      766            730            778                 879                672

 indirect energy consumption

 renewable
 electricity, finland                                                              306            313            337                 265                271

 non-renewable
 electricity, other countries                                                      187            204            207                 303                280
 district heating                                                                  271            278            324                 352                346

 traffic fuel – outsourced, finland                                                804            547            612                 664                572

the electrical power used by posti in finland has been produced with 100 percent renewable energy. the use
of renewable energy sources is ensured with guarantees of origin. the measurement of the emissions of the
purchased electricity employs a market-based method pursuant to the ghg protocol standard.

en15–en17 the group's co emissions




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           39

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                 sustainability / environment / indicators




en15–en17 the group's co2 emissions

 tons                                                                            2016           2015           2014               2013                2012

 fuel use in transport – posti's vehicles, scope 1                            52,532          50,014         53,396            60,406             46,169
 fuel use in buildings – energy generation, scope 1                             8,818           8,900        15,020              9,268            10,724

 electricity and heat use in buildings, scope 2                               39,068          40,266         44,199            38,272             46,496

 subcontracted transport by vehicles* and air, scope                          62,524          65,298         70,801            73,490             59,287
 3
 business travel flights, scope 3                                               1,358           1,512          2,139             2,190               2,260

 total                                                                      164,300 165,991 185,555                         183,625             164,936


 *) includes subcontracted transport in finland



en21 emissions to air – own vehicles
                                                                                 2016           2015           2014               2013                2012

 tons/year                                                                    finland        finland         finland           finland            finland

 co                                                                                  50             54             59                  60                  56

 hc                                                                                  10             16             16                  16                  14

 nox                                                                               144            137            130                 166                   97
 particles                                                                          4.4            5.4             5.8                5.9                 4.7

 so2                                                                                0.5            0.5             0.6                0.6                 0.5

 source of information: vtt/lipasto emissions of traffic. source of data: kilometers driven by own vehicles.

en23 waste management in finland




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           40

posti annual report 2016                                                                                               sustainability / environment / indicators




en23 waste management in finland
                                                                                                                2016                            2015

 properties included in waste management agreement, tons*                                                     finland                        finland

  recycle and reuse                                                                                             8,308                          8,463

  other recover                                                                                                 3,779                          3,747

  inceneration                                                                                                    489                              367
  final disposal                                                                                                    82                             173



  hazardous waste**                                                                                               537                              471

  recycle and reuse                                                                                               462                              444
  final disposal                                                                                                    74                               27



 total                                                                                                        13,194                         13,221


 recovery rate, %                                                                                                 99%                             98%


 *) excluding properties where waste management is included in the rent. reporting of the fractions of
 waste has been refined since 2015.
 **) of which 443 (418) tons is refrigeration devices and waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           41

posti annual report 2016                                                                                               sustainability / environment / indicators




                                                     gri reporting

this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           42

posti annual report 2016                                                                                                        sustainability / gri reporting




                                                     gri reporting
this corporate responsibility report is based on the global reporting initiative guidelines (gri g4). in
addition, posti complies with the reporting requirements of its owner, the finnish state.

in accordance with the gri guidelines, posti focuses on factors that are key to its operations and essential to
its stakeholders. posti’s corporate responsibility report covers the key areas of economic, social and
environmental responsibility. the report has not been subject to third-party assurance. according to posti’s
estimate, the corporate responsibility report corresponds to the g4 core application level of the gri
guidelines. a summary of the comparison between the report contents and the reporting guidelines is
presented in the gri index.


reporting boundary
posti’s sustainability aspects, environmental indicators and hr indicators are reported annually for the same
period as the financial figures (january 1–december 31). key indicators for the different areas of
sustainability are reported to the audit committee of posti group’s board of directors at least once per year.

unless otherwise mentioned in context, the reporting covers all operations of the parent company and
subsidiaries. reporting covers all group functions in all countries of operation. the reporting does not, as a
rule, include the operations of subcontractors or affiliated companies. the coverage of the indicators is
reported in connection with the indicators.

for figures related to personnel, the key indicators have been calculated in accordance with the accounting
standards board’s general guidelines on annual reports. in gri reporting, the information concerning
personnel is primarily based on the group’s personnel in finland.

the indicators for environmental responsibility cover the group’s operations with the greatest environmental
impact in all of its countries of operation. in finland, the environmental impacts of transport subcontracting
are also taken into account. the environmental accounting applies the world business council for sustainable
development (wbcsd) greenhouse gas (ghg) protocol and the ghg inventory standard for the postal
sector protocol, which includes more detailed instructions for the postal industry.

the data and key indicators pertaining to financial responsibility are taken from the consolidated financial
statements. posti reports on its finances in accordance with the ifrs accounting standards, the finnish
securities market act and the rules and regulations of nasdaq helsinki. posti’s financial communications are
described in more detail in disclosure policy.


contact information
appu haapio, head of sustainability, appu.haapio (at) posti.com
hannele parkkinen, corporate responsibility manager, hannele.parkkinen (at) posti.com

                                             gri content index


this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           43

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / gri reporting / gri content index




                                             gri content index
 code            gri standard disclosures                                      reference page               remarks

                 strategy and analysis

 g4-1            ceo's statement                                               president and
                                                                               ceo's review

 g4-2            key impacts, risks, and opportunities                         strategy
                                                                               board of directors'
                                                                               report

                 organizational profile

 g4-3            name of the organization                                                                   posti group corporation

 g4-4            primary brands, products, and services                        this is posti
                                                                               logistics, mail and
                                                                               financial
                                                                               management
                                                                               services

 g4-5            location of the organization’s headquarters                                                postintaival 7. helsinki

 g4-6            number of countries and names of countries this is posti
                 with major operations or that are relevant
                 to sustainability issues

 g4-7            nature of ownership and legal form                            share capital and
                                                                               shareholding

 g4-8            markets served                                                this is posti

 g4-9            scale of the reporting organization                           key figures

 g4-10           total workforce by employment type,                           personnel
                 employment contract, region and gender

 g4-11           percentage of total employees covered by                      personnel
                 collective bargaining agreements

 g4-12           organization’s supply chain                                   supply chain

 g4-13           significant changes during the reporting                      new business
                 period regarding the organization's size,                     through
                 structure, ownership, or its supply chain                     acquisitions

 g4-14           whether and how the precautionary                                                          the precautionary approach
                 approach or principle is addressed by the                                                  and principle has been taken
                 organization                                                                               into account in accordance
                                                                                                            with statutory requirements.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           44

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / gri reporting / gri content index




 g4-15           externally developed economic,                managing
                 environmental and social charters,            responsibility
                 principles, or other initiatives to which the
                 organization subscribes or which it endorses

 g4-16           memberships in associations (such as                           stakeholders
                 industry associations) and/or
                 national/international advocacy
                 organizations

                 identified material aspects and boundaries

 g4-17           list of stakeholder groups engaged by the                      this is posti
                 organization                                                   group companies


 g4-18           process for defining report content and                        sustainability at
                 aspect boundaries                                              posti
                                                                                gri reporting

 g4-19           material aspects                                               sustainability at
                                                                                posti
                                                                                stakeholders

 g4-20           aspect boundary for each material aspect                       gri reporting
                 within the organization

 g4-21           aspect boundary for each material aspect                       gri reporting
                 outside the organization

 g4-22           restatements of information provided in                        correction of an            see g4-la6. no other
                 previous reports                                               error                       significant changes during the
                                                                                                            reporting period.

 g4-23           significant changes from previous reporting new business
                 periods in the scope and aspect boundaries through
                                                             acquisitions
                                                             gri reporting

                 stakeholder engagement

 g4-24           list of stakeholder groups engaged by the                      stakeholders
                 organization

 g4-25           basis for identification and selection of                      stakeholders
                 stakeholders with whom to engage

 g4-26           approaches to stakeholder engagement,     stakeholders
                 including frequency of engagement by type
                 and by stakeholder group

 g4-27           key topics and concerns that have been    stakeholders
                 raised through stakeholder engagement,
                 and how the organization has responded to
                 those key topics and concerns




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           45

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / gri reporting / gri content index




                 report profile

 g4-28           reporting period                                                gri reporting

 g4-29           date of most recent previous report                                                        march 16, 2016

 g4-30           reporting cycle                                                                            annually

 g4-31           contact point for questions regarding the                       gri reporting
                 report or its contents

 g4-32           gri content index                                                                          self-assessment has been
                                                                                                            made, no external assurance.

 g4-33           the organization's policy and current                           gri reporting
                 practice with regard to seeking external
                 assurance for the report

                 governance

 g4-34           governance structure of the organisation                        governance
                 and committees

 g4-35           delegating authority                                            governance

 g4-36           executive-level positions with responsibility                   sustainability at
                 for economic, environmental and social                          posti
                 topics

 g4-37           consultation with stakeholders                                  stakeholders

 g4-42           board of directors’ role in setting purpose,                    corporate
                 values and strategy                                             governance
                                                                                 statement

 g4-45           board of directors’ role in the identification                  corporate
                 and management of risks                                         governance
                                                                                 statement

 g4-46           reviewing the effectiveness of risk                             corporate
                 management                                                      governance
                                                                                 statement

 g4-47           frequency of risk reviews                                       corporate
                                                                                 governance
                                                                                 statement

 g4-48           formal approval of the organisation's                           gri reporting
                 sustainability report

 g4-49           communicating critical concerns                                 gri reporting

 g4-51           remuneration policies for the board and                         remuneration
                 senior executives                                               statement

 g4-56           organization's values, principles, standards                    managing
                 and codes                                                       responsibility
                                                                                 supply chain




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           46

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / gri reporting / gri content index




 g4-57           internal and external mechanisms for seeking sustainability at
                 advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and   posti
                 matters related to organizational integrity

 g4-58           internal and external mechanisms for                             sustainability at
                 reporting concerns about unethical or                            posti
                 unlawful behavior, and matters related to
                 organizational integrity




 code            indicators                                                       reference page            remarks

                 generic disclosures on management
                 approach

                 category: economic

 g4-ec1          direct economic value generated and                              society
                 distributed                                                      tax footprint

 g4-ec4          financial assistance received from                               other operating
                 government                                                       income

 g4-ec9          proportion of spending on local suppliers at                     supply chain
                 significant locations of operation

                 category: environmental

 g4-en3          energy consumption within the organization                       indicators

 g4-en5          energy intensity                                                 indicators

 g4-en6          reduction of energy consumption                                  environment

 g4-en15         direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions                            indicators
                 (scope 1)

 g4-en16         energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg)                             indicators
                 emissions (scope 2)

 g4-en17         other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg)                              indicators
                 emissions (scope 3)

 g4-en18         greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity                         indicators

 g4-en19         reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg)                                environment
                 emissions                                                        green logistics
                                                                                  and posti green

 g4-en21         nox, sox, and other significant air emissions                    indicators

 g4-en23         total weight of waste by type and disposal                       indicators
                 method




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           47

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / gri reporting / gri content index




 g4-en24         total number and volume of significant spills                                              in november, an articulated
                                                                                                            vehicle transporting
                                                                                                            substances classified as
                                                                                                            hazardous, had a traffic
                                                                                                            accident. an estimated 250
                                                                                                            liters of sodium hydroxide
                                                                                                            solution leaked in the
                                                                                                            environment. clearance work
                                                                                                            was carried out in
                                                                                                            collaboration with the fire
                                                                                                            brigade.

 g4-en27         extent of impact mitigation of environmental                     environment
                 impacts of products and services

 g4-en29         monetary value of significant fines and total                                              no significant fines or
                 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-                                                  sanctions during the reporting
                 compliance with environmental laws and                                                     period.
                 regulations

 g4-en30         significant environmental impacts of                             environment
                 transporting products and other goods and
                 materials for the organization’s operations,
                 and transporting members of the workforce

 g4-en32         percentage of new suppliers that were                            supply chain
                 screened using environmental criteria

                 category: people

 g4-la1          total number and rates of new employee hires personnel                                     covers mainly only operations
                 and employee turnover by age group, gender,                                                in finland. more information is
                 and region                                                                                 available on indicators for
                                                                                                            people responsibility.

 g4-la4          minimum notice periods regarding                                 responsible
                 operational changes, including whether it is                     employer
                 specified in collective agreements                               personnel

 g4-la6          type of injury and rates of injury,                              occupational              in sustainablity report 2015,
                 occupational diseases, lost days, and                            safe and well-            1,739 accidents were repoted.
                 absenteeism, and total number of work-                           being                     in 2015, 2,072 accidents were
                 related fatalities, by region and by gender                                                recorded. the reporting error is
                                                                                                            due to a system error, which
                                                                                                            was discovered during 2016.

 g4-la11         percentage of employees receiving regular   personnel
                 performance and career development
                 reviews, by gender and by employee category

 g4-la13         ratio of basic salary and remuneration of                        personnel
                 women to men by employee category, by
                 significant locations of operation




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           48

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / gri reporting / gri content index




 g4-la14         percentage of new suppliers that were                             supply chain
                 screened using labor practices criteria

 g4-la16         number of grievances about labor practices                                                 there were five grievances
                 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal                                              about labor practices filed,
                 grievance mechanisms                                                                       addressed, and resolved
                                                                                                            through formal grievance
                                                                                                            mechanisms during the
                                                                                                            reporting period. after
                                                                                                            addressing the matters,
                                                                                                            corrective actions were taken
                                                                                                            in two cases.

 g4-hr3          total number of incidents of discrimination                                                no reported discrimination
                 and corrective actions taken                                                               incidents.

 g4-hr10         percentage of new suppliers that were                             supply chain
                 screened using human rights criteria

 g4-hr12         number of grievances about human rights                                                    no reported grievances about
                 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved                                                     human rights impacts.
                 through formal grievance mechanisms

                 category: society

 g4-so4          communication and training on anti-                                                        training of the employee
                 corruption policies and procedures                                                         code of conduct is
                                                                                                            compulsory for all employees
                                                                                                            of the group. in 2016, the
                                                                                                            completion rate for the
                                                                                                            training was 79%
                                                                                                            (31.12.2016). posti group
                                                                                                            corporation has published
                                                                                                            and implemented gifts and
                                                                                                            hospitality policy in october,
                                                                                                            2016.

 g4-so5          confirmed incidents of corruption and actions                                              one confirmed incident of
                 taken                                                                                      corruption during the period
                                                                                                            under review. the authorities
                                                                                                            are investigating the case. the
                                                                                                            personnel of the unit has been
                                                                                                            changed.

 g4-so6          total value of political contributions by                                                  posti group does not support
                 country and recipient/beneficiary                                                          any political parties or
                                                                                                            institutions.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           49

posti annual report 2016                                                                                        sustainability / gri reporting / gri content index




 g4-so7           total number of legal actions for anti-                                                   one investigation request has
                  competitive behavior, anti-trust, and                                                     been done against the
                  monopoly practices and their outcomes                                                     company concerning the
                                                                                                            abuse of the dominating
                                                                                                            position on the market. no
                                                                                                            other legal actions for anti-
                                                                                                            competitive behaviour or
                                                                                                            significant fines or other
                                                                                                            sanctions for non-compliance
                                                                                                            with laws and regulations.

 g4-so8           monetary value of significant fines and total                    legal                    the finnish communications
                  number of non-monetary sanctions for non-                        proceedings              regulatory authority has set a
                  compliance with laws and regulations                                                      penalty payment of eur
                                                                                                            100,000 for the company
                                                                                                            regarding the quality
                                                                                                            standard of universal service
                                                                                                            of letters.

 g4-so9           percentage of new suppliers that were                            supply chain
                  screened using criteria for impacts on society

 g4-pr2           total number of incidents of non-compliance                                               none during the period under
                  with regulations and voluntary codes                                                      review.
                  concerning the health and safety impacts of
                  products and services during their life cycle,
                  by type of outcomes

 g4-pr5           results of surveys measuring customer                            stakeholders
                  satisfaction

 g4-pr7           total number of incidents of non-compliance                                               none during the period under
                  with regulations and voluntary codes                                                      review.
                  concerning marketing communications,
                  including advertising, promotion, and
                  sponsorship, by type of outcomes

 g4-pr8           total number of substantiated complaints                         managing
                  regarding breaches of customer privacy and                       responsibility
                  losses of customer data                                          society

 g4-pr9           monetary value of significant fines for non-                     legal                    the finnish communications
                  compliance with laws and regulations                             proceedings              regulatory authority has set a
                  concerning the provision and use of products                                              penalty payment of eur
                  and services                                                                              100,000 for the company
                                                                                                            regarding the quality
                                                                                                            standard of universal service
                                                                                                            of letters.




this pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. the entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016



                                                                           50

posti.com
