                                           2015 annual report
                                         bastion of
                                   the circular economy

over the past year, discarded electrical and electronic   in 2015, recupel was able to make progress in every
equipment was collected, processed and reclaimed in       link of the value chain, from awareness-raising through
such a cost-efficient manner as to make recupel an        to urban mining.
indisputable bastion of the circular economy.

1




    1. awareness-raising


    in 2015, recupel was able to motivate every belgian to bring in an
    average 10kg of electrical and electronic waste.
    in 2015, raising the awareness of consumers and prompting them to turn in their
    unused electrical and electronic appliances more quickly remained one of recupel’s top
    objectives. to achieve this, recupel threw a panoply of tried-and-tested campaign recipes
    and new initiatives into the fray.

    all together the campaigns were able to convince belgians to bring in 111,356 tonnes of discarded electrical and
    electronic appliances, or more than 10kg per belgian. this puts belgium amongst the global leaders in terms of
    collected volume per inhabitant (only norway, sweden and switzerland do better.)


    what makes this result even more striking is the fact that, on average, the weight of collected appliances is on the
    decline – just think of the shrinking number of cathode-ray tv’s in circulation, the ever-lighter flat screens, and so
    on. in other words, proportionally a lot more appliances have to be picked up in order to see an increase in the
    overall collected volume.


    the campaigns owed their effectiveness in part to a competition element, product-specific awareness-raising
    focusing on e.g. defective lamps and (garden) tools, convincing communication of the significant benefits of
    electro-recycling, mobile campaigns and a savvy media mix.

recycling competitions

the second edition of recycleergem, an inter-municipal recycling competition, once again proved to be a great
success, with 315 participating municipalities (234 in flanders, 74 in wallonia and 7 in brussels). the inhabitants of
the three winning municipalities (celles, zingem and watermaal-bosvoorde) were treated to a picnic breakfast by
recupel. during recycleergem, a total of 8,830 tonnes of e-waste were collected throughout belgium.


on top of that, recupel facilitated numerous spontaneous collection actions by schools and associations,
which together accounted for another 10 tonnes of e-waste.




specific campaigns

targeted campaigns convinced many belgians to bring in defective lamps and/or disused (garden) tools. in addition,
belgians whose old kitchen range hoods were due for replacement were prompted to give it more serious thought
as a result of the new energy label.

communication of the benefits

other campaigns successfully drew attention to the interest and significant benefits of electro-recycling. via radio,
print and a youtube video, the general public was made aware of both the raw materials that recycling makes
available again, the so-called “urban mining”, and the environmental pollution that - thanks to recycling - is avoided.


     on average, the collected devices are becoming steadily lighter in weight.
     in order to increase the volume, therefore, more and more devices have to
     be picked up


mobile campaign techniques

in 2015, the mobile campaign initiative recupel on tour, conducted in collaboration with municipalities,
intermunicipal waste utility companies and reuse shops (kringwinkels), accounted for 36 local collection actions
during which 12,000 electronic and electrical appliances were picked up. of the 97 tonnes of collected e-waste,
33 tonnes of it could go to recycling shops for re-sale, while 64 tonnes were processed and recycled by recupel.




savvy media mix

each campaign received its own custom-tailored media strategy in which press, radio, tv and billposting were used,
as well as mini-sites, mailings and partner media.

2




    2. collection results


    with 859 new recyclepoints in supermarkets and diy stores,
    the threshold for bringing in e-waste was once again significantly
    reduced in 2015.
    the collection possibilities rose substantially in particular for small electrical appliances,
    not in the least thanks to 859 new recyclepoints in supermarkets, diy stores and
    electronics stores, for which a new lamps box was also introduced in 2015. at the end
    of the year, the number of these recyclepoints that could be found at retailers already
    stood at 1,506.

         recupel continues to respond to the earlier finding that 95% of consumers
         appreciate the recyclepoint as a low-threshold alternative method for proper
         recycling.

    evolution of the collection results per fraction (tonnes/year)




                                104,147   113,091   114,443   113,783   113,665   111,357


3




    3. recycling figures


    over 90% of the collected e-waste received a new, useful
    application in 2015.
    moreover, belgium is the only european member state that sets legal objectives for the recycling of ferrous,
    non-ferrous and synthetic materials. in 2015 recupel did better than the legal minimums for all fractions.
    for many fractions the recycling percentage is now approaching 100%.


         in 2015 recupel did better than the legal minimums for all fractions



    2015 recycling results*




                         bw         cf

4




    4. employment


    recupel generated almost 1,200 jobs in 2015.
    a study conducted by the research agency rdc for recupel showed that recupel’s
    activities generate almost 1,200 jobs, from transporters and processors to samplers and
    workplaces in the reuse sector.

    around one-third of these jobs are situated in the social economy: the social employment could be expanded to
    413 fte´s in 2015.


        the social employment could be expanded to 413 fte´s in 2015


                                          retail - transshipment centers   170
                                          recycling parks                  114
                                          transporters                     168
                                          reuse sector                     349
                                          samplers                         20
                                          processors                       298
                                          recupel                          28

5




    5. efficiency gain


    “in 2015 our chain was already so efficient that we were
    nominated for a supply chain award for the first time.”
    (peter sabbe, general manager)
    thanks in part to a thorough optimisation of the logistics and the development of an
    adr-proof pallet box, excellent results in the area of cost efficiency could also be booked
    in 2015.

    optiweee

    one-third of recupel’s budget is devoted to covering the logistical costs generated by the collection and processing
    of e-waste. more than enough reason to roll out a reverse logistics optimization project in 2015.


         with its optiweee project, recupel brought the logistical costs down by
         a good 10%
    under the motto “better, faster & cheaper” this optiweee project was able to reduce the logistical costs by over
    10%, thanks to a substantial reduction in the number of driven kilometres and thus also in co2 emissions. an effort
    that was crowned with a nomination for a supply chain award.




    weee palletbox

    in 2015 recupel also unveiled an adaptation of the pallet box, so that it henceforth meets the new european adr
    regulations for transporting electronic devices in which lithium batteries are processed. this adaptation was a
    european first. moreover, once empty, the easy-to-disassemble box can be compactly transported and stored:
    an extra bonus for transport and storage costs.

6




    6. financial balance sheet


    structural reduction of financial reserves
    the total financial reserves (provisions and working reserves), built up by a cautious approach of the initial
    contributions, are being systematically further reduced. this reduction began in 2009 with an adaptation of the
    contributions. the objective is to arrive at a “pay-as-you-go” system, whereby the recupel contribution belonging to
    an appliance fully covers the costs of the collection, transport and recycling.





7




    7. satisfaction gain



    in 2015, the personnel policy also demonstrated sustainability.
    recupel employees felt pretty good in 2015.

    at least, that can be inferred from the minimal staff turnover and a sickness leave rate that fell to an historical low
    of 1.55% (coming from 1.99% in 2014 and 7.08% in 2013).


    in 2015 recupel still worked exclusively with permanent contracts for 20 dutch native speakers and 6 french native
    speakers. three colleagues departed and two new employees were welcomed. female employees (14) maintained
    a slight numerical edge over the men on recupel´s payroll (12).


         in terms of both satisfaction and commitment, the recupel personnel scores
         a good deal better than the benchmark
    in 2015, teleworking possibilities became accessible for the entire employee pool. in terms of mobility, almost one-
    fifth of employees come to work at least regularly by bicycle. this means that the number of bicycle compensations
    quintupled compared to 2014! and employees once again received plenty of opportunities to expand their
    knowledge during - on average - 24 hours of training per personnel member on an annual basis.

    the biennial personnel satisfaction survey showed that recupel maintained its lead on the market: with an average
    satisfaction of 7.2, recupel does better than the benchmark of 6.9 for belgian companies. the recupel personnel
    also score significantly better than the benchmark (6.9) with regard to commitment (7.3).

8




    8. environment and climate results


    in 2015, recupel kept 13,566 tonnes of harmful substances out of
    the environment.
    co2 emissions could be further reduced thanks to innovations in e.g. logistics and the
    vehicle fleet. and in the depollution process, climate-friendly, manual processing once
    again gained in importance. recupel can also present excellent figures for climate and
    environmental benefits.



    depollution

    in 2015, recupel and its approved partners made sure that 13,566 tonnes of harmful substances from old batteries,
    compressors, cathode ray tubes, etc. did not end up in the environment. in 2014, this number was still 14,975
    tonnes: a decrease that can be attributed to the trend for electrical and electronic appliances to contain less and
    less harmful substances.


    in addition to mechanical processing, processors in 2015 also continued to invest in manual depollution, because
    this results in even more thorough depollution.



    emission reduction

         thanks to training courses on e-positive driving, co² emissions could be
         reduced by 5 tonnes
    while in logistics the number of superfluous kilometres were reduced by 10% (see also link 5: optiweee), emissions
    were also reduced in the vehicle fleet. not only did the average emission of company cars fall further, from 116.12
    g/km (2014) to 114.5 g/km (2015), the training courses on e-positive driving produced results: consumption dropped
    by 6.4%, equivalent to an annual savings of 1,936 litres of fuel or more than 5 tonnes of co².

9




    9. raw materials balance sheet


    in 2015, over 80,000 tonnes of raw materials became available
    once again for the production of new appliances.
    recupel´s urban mining ensured that a record volume of raw materials no longer had to
    be extracted via classic mining methods.

    in 2015, stakeholders in belgium also became increasingly aware of the enormous economic importance of urban
    mining, the trend towards recovering raw materials from (the e-waste of) the city.


         thanks to recupel, over 80,000 tonnes of raw materials no longer have to be
         extracted via classic mining methods
    in 2015, on top of these 80,000 tonnes, around 10,000 tonnes were used as fuel for processes such as energy
    generation – just think of the plastics that can be used in combustion processes to generate steam.

10




     10. gain in expertise


     belgium remained the world number one for the recycling of
     e-waste in 2015. in the meantime, recupel´s know-how is being
     shared worldwide.
     under the auspices of the united nations industrial development organization (unido)
     and in collaboration with, amongst others, the belgian ngo worldloop, recupel in 2015
     once again supported solutions for environmental problems with e-waste in africa.

     belgium is internationally recognised as a recycling leader. for example, in 2015 delegations came from japan,
     romania, latvia and other countries to learn from recupel.


          in the meantime, interest in recupel´s unique expertise extends far beyond
          belgium’s borders




     in the partnership with worldloop as well, it is above all recupel´s know-how that is highly valued: in 2015, recupel
     furnished the necessary expertise on collecting and processing discarded electrical and electronic equipment for
     setting up e-waste recycling centres in africa.

                       recupel board of directors




  dirk van assche         bruno vermoesen        peter vanhecke       koen vanhulle
   vice-chairman              director            vice-chairman          director
      bw-rec                  bw-rec                recupel av          recupel av




 kris vangilbergen           bart quispel        werner donckers       eric theunis
   vice-chairman               director           vice-chairman          director
    recupel sda              recupel sda           recupel ict          recupel ict




jean-pierre van keer        jan grietens         hendrik vermeire   johan deschryvere
   vice-chairman              director             vice-chairman         director
    recupel et&g            recupel et&g              lightrec           lightrec




    luc meert           richard van den broeck    baudoin corluy     peter binnemans
 chairman recupel               director             director       director & secretary
     melarec                   melarec               agoria                 fee
