2014
our focus on
sustainability
  and corporate
 responsibility.




                   www.sdcoffeetea.com


table of
contents.


                message from ceo                22



                a solid beginning               44



                beginning at the source         66



                being good stewards             810



                a future without the landfill   12
                                                12




                investing in our employees      14
                                                14




                engaging with communities       16
                                                16




                building strong relationships   17
                                                18




                the path forward                20
                                                22




            1

a message   here at s&d, we’re proud of our record of growth, innovation and

            service. it’s what made us the nation’s largest custom roaster —
from our    and it’s what makes us such a strong partner for our customers

ceo.        across the industry.



            as a leading beverage supplier in the foodservice industry, we view

            sustainable sourcing practices and corporate social responsibility

            as elements of quality. it’s not enough to simply offer great tasting

            products. that’s why we strive to deliver the best possible

            experience for everyone who enjoys our beverages — and that starts

            with a commitment to doing right by our people and our planet.


            last year, we published our first sustainability report to mark our

            start and document our goals and progress regarding several key

            initiatives. from increasing supply chain transparency and devel-

            oping our principles and standards for sustainably sourced coffee

            and tea to reducing consumption and waste at our main facility,

            we’re making important changes that position us for responsible

            growth in the years to come.



            as we look ahead, we’ll continue to collaborate throughout our

            company and the greater marketplace to find sustainable solutions
            to the challenges we face. what follows is the very latest on our

            collective progress at s&d — what we’ve accomplished together,

            what we’re working on today and what we hope to achieve

            together in the future.




            ron hinson, chairman of the board,

            president & ceo, s&d coffee




                 2

3

a solid
beginning.
every successful plan starts with a strong and

well defined path. in 2014, we stayed true

to our initial goals — building on initial focus

areas and working together toward greater              key achievements in 2014
rigor on our sustainability approach. we never

wavered from our core beliefs: that coffee and         • increased supply chain transparency
tea should be vehicles for economic growth in

rural areas, that supply chains should promote         • developed principles and standards for

social and environmental best practices, that            sustainable sourcing

our company should help workers and their
                                                       • invested in capacity-building programs at origin
families enjoy greater opportunity and that

our employees can have a positive impact in
                                                       • conducted sustainability assessment for tea,
the community. this reflects just our second             developed sustainable sourcing strategy

year, but we’re progressing rapidly toward our
                                                       • implemented supplier code of conduct
broader goals.

                                                       • implemented environmental management system
                                                         plan to drive energy, water and waste reductions


                                                       • implemented performance management and talent
                                                         development programs


                                                       • improved data capturing and internal
                                                         audit processes


                                                       • published first corporate social responsibility report




                                                   4

continuing
areas of focus.

                                                    personal and professional development

resilient value chains                              we will continue helping all of our employees thrive and achieve

                                                    their full potential — whether we’re improving employee satisfaction
we believe a truly sustainable supply chain
                                                    ratings, growing the number of employee training hours,
yields benefits at every level — from the quality
                                                    or increasing female and minority representation in
of our coffee to the quality of a farmer’s life.
                                                    supervisory/management/executive positions.
by expanding technical assistance and

advancing collaborative platforms around

issues like climate change, we are working to

ensure these vital communities and regions

continue to grow and prosper for years to come.     efficiency

                                                    we take our responsibility to the planet seriously. that’s why we’re

                                                    committed to being good stewards of our natural resources at every

                                                    step — from our own production facilities to our growing regions
sustainable sourcing                                around the world.

we believe all of our supplier partners can join
us to ensure our operations meet the high stan-

dards we’ve set for conduct and performance.

going forward, we will continue to work with all    impact partnerships & industry leadership
sides to encourage environmentally conscious        we will continue to provide strategic input and financial support
performance and ethical conduct within the          to industry and community organizations as well as
supplier base.                                      collaborative initiatives.




                                                          5

beginning at
the source.
at s&d, one of our top priorities is               sustainably sourced
strengthening the stability of our supply chains   as part of our sustainable sourcing framework, we promote best
for coffee and tea — ultimately delivering         environmental and social best practices on farm utilizing standards
meaningful economic benefits to farmers            that are certified or verified by third-parties. we regularly monitor
and their families. s&d has partnered with         performance and work with our partners on continual improvement
conservation international to develop its          programs as well as focus on going above and beyond the current
sustainable sourcing guidelines. the goals         standard level. we have significantly increased our purchases and
are better coffee and tea quality, better farm     actively promote certified or verified products to our customers.
management, greater environmental perfor-

mance and strong, thriving communities.            technical assistance
                                                   and farmer support
                                                   s&d is proud to work with our partners to create technical

                                                   assistance programs aimed at boosting farm productivity, reducing

                                                   production costs, minimizing soil impact and improving working

                                                   conditions. these efforts not only help s&d maintain the highest

                                                   quality standards, but also help farmers realize even greater

                                                   economic opportunities for their families and communities.



                                                   a scalable approach
                                                   most sustainable sourcing solutions bypass or minimize the trader

                                                   role, either taking an “outside-in” or “start from scratch” approach

                                                   and in doing so, miss a tremendous opportunity to leverage the

                                                   resources, efficiency and scale these firms provide. the s&d

                                                   sustainable sourcing strategy leverages the strengths of our trading

                                                   partners, which include on-the-ground technical support and other

                                                   services for farmers and investments in the long-term resiliency of

                                                   the supply chain (including farm renovation).




                                                        6

key sourcing principles and indicators



• assured supply — developing capacity for consistent quality

  coffee and predictable pricing

• farmer benefit — delivering meaningful economic benefit to
  producer partners

• ethical practices — applying high standards of conduct

  through our value chain

• sustainable, safe, and profitable agricultural practices —

  promoting agricultural practices that preserve and build

  natural capital

• worker protection — ensuring everyone in our supply chain

  is treated fairly and provided with a safe and healthy

  work environment

• climate strategy — mitigating and adapting to the effects

  of climate changes

• traceability and financial transparency — ensuring openness

  and visibility in transactions
• supplier commitment — partnering with suppliers who align

  and also commit to building capacity within the supply chain




     7

the power of
our programs.
at s&d, we understand the power of working                                             14
                                                                                       projects
together. that’s why our technical assistance                                          underway.
programs are designed in collaboration with

trader and farmer partners in central and
                                                                                       12
                                                                                       producing
south america to address specific challenges                                           regions.
and leverage new opportunities for improved

farm and sustainability
                                                                                       15,000
                                                                                       farmers
performance.                                                                           impacted.

                                                                                       6,900
                                                                                       coffee
                                                                                       growers
                                                                                       benefitting.



   guatemala
   (2) 2 in full
   activity in 2014.

                         nicaragua
                         (2) 2 scoped in 2014
                         for 2015 implementation.


      costa rica
      (2) 2 scoped in 2014                                                   brazil
      for 2015 implementation.
                                                                             (2) 2 scoped in 2014
                                                                             for 2015 implementation.
                       colombia
                       (4) 1 in full activity in 2014       peru
                       and 3 scoped in 2014 for             (2) 2 scoped in 2014
                       2015 implementation.                 for 2015 implementation.




                                                        8

our approach
has impact.
results from our plant                               a real comeback story in santa rosa
nutrition program in                                 in the past five years, coffee rust disease has severely

cundinamarca                                         affected the livelihoods of farmers and their families

                                                     in the critical producing regions of santa rosa in




20%                          women
                                                     guatemala. in an area responsible for more than

                                                     a quarter of guatemala’s total crop, the crisis has
                              farmers                reduced production by as much as 40% in 2013-2014.
  94 beneficiaries with 19 women                     with the most vulnerable, most heavily dependent
  in the group (a total of 20%).
                                                     farmers at risk, s&d partnered with hanns r. neu-

                                                     mann stiftung and a core group of locals and began

                                                     a process of restoration. by building relationships

professional                                         with trusted figures, our engagement has grown and


soil analysis                                        ultimately led to six additional companies joining the

                                                     effort to help farmers in the region to bounce back

                                                     from this critical economic, environmental, and




43%
                                                     social challenge.




  productivity increased
  an average of 43%, 454kg of dry
  parchment, passing from 1,062kg
  in 2013 to 1,516kg in 2014.




261,000+
trees                         were improved
                              through the program.




                                                     9

being good
stewards.
at s&d, we’ve taken steps like adding new

efficiencies through our production facilities

and working to develop strategies for fuel use

in distribution — all in an effort to manage our

resources more effectively.



managing resources
more efficiently
whether it’s reducing the amount of waste sent

to landfill, composting organic waste from our

facilities or improving fuel efficiency across

our fleet, s&d is making positive progress on

several key environmental initiatives. our team

is also working to address natural gas usage,
                                                    improving performance
as well as water and electricity consumption,
                                                    by establishing reduction targets, implementing a
that has increased as a result of growth. with
                                                    companywide ems plan and pursuing designations
solutions in place, we’re confident we can
                                                    like zero waste to landfill, s&d is becoming a more
reach our target.
                                                    eco-efficient producer. in fact, at the time of publi-
                                                    cation, s&d was awarded the 2014 environmental

                                                    excellence & sustainability award by the cabarrus

                                                    regional chamber of commerce.




                                                   10

          improved                  working on

                                                             increased overall water
       reduced waste
                                                             usage by 8.23%
  to landfill by 21.20%
                                                             (liters per kg.)
                   (kgs.)




  reduced electricity                                        increased on-site fuel
  consumed by 2.43%                                          consumption by 7.90%
          (kwh per kg.)                                      (kwh per kg.)




 reduced on-road fuel
                                    number represents 2014 year-over-baseline (2012) data in intensity
consumption by 10.39%
          (liters per kg.)




                              tracking our
                             progress.
                               11

a future without
the landfill.
we’re implementing internal programs for           composting
composting organic materials, minimizing cup       our composting efforts have greatly increased in recent years —
use, printing on fsc-certified paper and much      jumping by 41% from 2012 to 2013 and another 32% from
more. in fact, we’ve already repurposed and        2013 to 2014. by proactively identifying compostable items, we
upcycled tons of material originally               can remove them from the waste stream and divert them to our
destined for the landfill.                         compost facility for processing. organic coffee byproducts are

                                                   helping local operations like wallace farms create nutrient-rich,
our ultimate goal of zero waste to landfill even   high-quality compost.
extends beyond our facilities as we look to

help customers responsibly dispose of s&d

packaging in the future.




                zero
               landfill
               future.




                                                       12

the final mile
a zero waste to landfill goal is ambitious and we’re making great

strides while also looking ahead to the last mile. burlap and film

are integral materials in our business and also some of the most

challenging materials to divert from landfill. we currently up-cycle

much of our burlap and the material is repurposed by the oyster

industry or agriculture, however we are seeking additional streams
for repurposing. for film, we’re aggressively pursuing process

improvements that will minimize waste at the manufacturing level

and evaluating recycling options for the total lifecycle.




     13

investing in
our employees.
at s&d we’re also passionate about being

a great place to work. in the short term, we

continue to undergo independent audits of

our protocols, wellness programs and other

employee engagement opportunities — and

have implemented new processes with the

ultimate goal of pursuing sa8000 or
comparable certification.




                                               recognizing our
                                               people’s potential
                                               in 2014, s&d expanded its performance development program

                                               to identify and elevate leadership skills among our employees

                                               and further invest in their potential. s&d is committed to creating

                                               opportunities for career advancement, and personal development.




                                                   14

 key initiatives



 • enhance employee satisfaction surveys

 • increase female and minority representation in

     supervisory/management/executive positions

 • elevate diversity goals, as well as goals for

     hiring veterans and disabled employees

 • expand leadership and development program




15

engaging
with our
communities.
s&d is proud to call concord, north carolina      on the national level, s&d supports a variety of organizations and

— and cabarrus county — home. along with          initiatives that directly impact communities across the united states.

providing over 700 jobs to the local community,

our homegrown efforts have resulted in two        ronald mcdonald
major employee-driven charity campaigns each      house charities
year: the united way of central carolinas and
the juvenile diabetes research foundation.        dave thomas
                                                  foundation for adoption
in 2014, s&d raised more than $20,000

for the jdrf — a 49% increase year-over-
                                                  big brothers big sisters
year since we began our affiliation. our team
                                                  the jimmy fund
also increased our total united way campaign

pledge totals from $103,629 in 2013 to
                                                  dana farber cancer institute
$105,000 in 2014. we were honored to
be represented by 107 s&d volunteers              muscular dystrophy association
participating in 15 united way projects

throughout the year.




                                                      16

on the world stage, s&d works with a number of high-profile groups

that focus on community development, healthcare, improving farmer

livelihoods, and women’s empowerment.


café femenino

grounds for health

coffee quality institute

international women’s coffee alliance

we were proud to once again donate to coffee kids in 2014 before

the program ceased operations. in the future, we will be committing

donations to other similar organizations and causes.




     17

building strong
relationships.
as a leader in the industry, s&d recognizes        industry leadership: engaging on key issues
the importance of contributing positively. but     national coffee association, the tea association of the usa,
we couldn’t do it without joining forces with      specialty coffee association of america, international
a number of respected national and global          women’s coffee alliance
organizations. by partnering with these experts,

we’re better able to consider the interests of     community alliances: understanding
all stakeholders — from families of employees      where we live and work
to non-profits, universities and the greater       united way of central carolinas, sustain charlotte, cabarrus
business community.                                regional chamber of commerce


                                                   collaborative partnerships: addressing
                                                   long-term strategic challenges
                                                   world coffee research, tea 2030, coalition for coffee

                                                   communities, healthy weight commitment foundation



                                                   ngo partnerships: garnering external
                                                   advisement and knowledge
                                                   conversational international, technoserve




                                                       18

s&d industry
involvement.
we’re honored to be affiliated with and hold board seats on national

trade associations that represent the industry at large and work to

improve standards and promote best practices at all levels.




ron hinson, chairman of the board,
president and ceo
national coffee association and the tea
association of the usa




tracy ging, vice president of sustainability
and strategic initiatives
specialty coffee association of america, world coffee
research, coalition for coffee communities,
grounds for health




kyle newkirk, vice president of global sourcing
and commodity risk management
coffee quality institute*




helen griffith, marketing manager
international women’s coffee alliance



* at time of publication




      19

our involvement
has impact.



  leadership cabarrus                              women’s foodservice forum
  established in 1998, leadership cabarrus         s&d is proud to partner with the

  was formed to provide the area’s best            women’s foodservice forum, the

  leadership and professional development          industry’s premier leadership development

  program. this nine-month commitment              resource. established in 1989, the wff

  gives future leaders the chance to go            has helped countless individuals build

  deeper on a full range of topics, includ-        their skills and broaden their perspectives

  ing history, economic development, local         through meaningful connections — all

  government, health, communications               with the goal of expanding gender-diverse

  and education. s&d is proud to support           leadership in the workplace. members of

  employees who take advantage of such             the wff help drive critical organizational

  a valuable program right here in our own         initiatives that move our strategic plan for

  community.                                       a sustainable future forward.




               possible                                         possible
                image                                            image
                 here.                                            here.




                                              20

21

the path
forward.
we believe it’s time for leadership in           as we continue these initiatives in 2015 and beyond, there

sustainability across the board and we’re        are several positive indications that encourage us to redouble

commited to doing our part and taking bold       our efforts:

steps forward — whether it’s developing

strategic partnerships, reducing environmental   benefits of scale — our impact framework, sourcing
impact, improving supply chain performance       guidelines and assurance methodology are all fully implemented for

or meeting long-term challenges with solid,      coffee and extending to tea.

viable solutions.
                                                 customer adoption — our customers are embracing
                                                 sustainably sourced coffee and tea more than ever.



                                                 measureable cost savings — our efforts are yielding
                                                 significant cost savings and improved environmental performance in

                                                 operations and distribution.



                                                 purpose-built systems — our systems are designed to
                                                 provide credible, auditable statements of sustainability performance

                                                 and impact.


                                                 industry recognition — we’re achieving many meaningful
                                                 internal goals, which in turn is earning external recognition from

                                                 across the industry and beyond.



                                                 less risk — we’re continuing to reduce supply chain and
                                                 reputational risk for both our business and our customers.




                                                      22

  2014 goal and progress summary.



  focus                                 goal                                           progress                                        unit of
   area                                                                                                                               measure


 resilient     increase purchases of sustainably certified or verified
  value        coffee and tea:
  chains       • 3rd party certified coffee (rainforest alliance                • +26.7% over 2013                                              %
                 certifiedtm, fair trade certifiedtm, utz, organic)

               • verified coffee*                                               • +254% over 2013                                               %

               • 3rd party certified tea                                        • +175% over 2013                                               %

               continue to invest in farmer support and                         • 14 projects                                                    #
               capacity-building programs




sustainable    ensure 100% compliance with supplier code of                     • 29% compliance of total                                       %
 sourcing      conduct                                                            procurement spend

               increase diversity spend (target to be established)              • 7.77% of total                                                %
                                                                                  procurement spend




  personal     improve leadership competency evaluations and                    • 95.4% development                                             %
development    development plans for employees                                    plans completed




 efficiency    reduce energy and water usage by 20% by 2020 and                 baseline vs. 2014
               achieve zero waste to landfill**

               • waste to landfill                                              • -21.20%                                                      kgs

               • electricity consumed                                           • -2.43%                                                 kwh per kg

               • on-road fuel consumption                                       • -10.39%                                               liters per kg

               • water consumption                                              • +8.23%                                                 liters per kg

               • on-site fuel consumption                                       • +7.90%                                                 kwh per kg




   impact      increase industry participation and engagement
partnerships
               • industry board seats held                                      • 8 seats
     and
 corporate     • collaborative investments                                      – world coffee research,
 citizenship                                                                      tea 2030, coalition for
                                                                                  coffee communities



                                                                          *verified under partner sustainable management systems.
                                                          23             **natural gas and water usage are directly proportional to increased production.

looking
ahead.
we’re proud of the significant progress we’ve

made together in the past year — but our work

is just beginning. we’ll continue to expand

our efforts.



by applying more advanced
performance indicators in 2015,                      top priorities
                                                     for 2015.
we’ll build an even stronger
foundation of sustainable
practices and corporate social
responsibility throughout the
organization — because it’s
the right thing to do, because
it’s the best way to grow and
because, ultimately, our shared
future depends on it.




                                                      continue to develop strategies,
                                                      strengthen monitoring and
                                                      evaluating processes and
                                                      apply more advanced key
                                                      performance indicators.




                                                24

direction forward
for 2016–18.




2016 onward our goal is to further embed sustainability
and csr activity into the organization, accelerate our
achievements, and position for gri-informed reporting
of all standard disclosures.




                                                25

for more information on our
sustainability efforts, please visit
www.sdcoffeetea.com/about-us/sustainability-community


©2015 s&d coffee, inc.
