annual report 2014



                     siemens.com

siemens at a glance
fiscal 2014




                      siemens.com

company report 2014




                we make real what matters by setting
                the benchmark in the way we electrify,
                automate and digitalize the world
                around us.
                to learn more, please read on.

    contents: company report


                                                                                     2 power transmission,
                                                                                       power distribution and
                                                                                             smart grid



                 our
                                                                                             a capacity of 120 gigawatts and more than
                                                                                             100,000 kilometers of high-voltage trans­
                                                                                             mission lines – these are only two features of
                                                                                             a power grid of true superlatives. learn how



                 path
                                                                                             we’ve cooperated with local partners in brazil
                                                                                             to create one of the world’s most advanced,
                                                                                             safest and most reliable power grids.

                                                                                             page 30
                  vision 2020 describes our path to a successful
                  future – a strong mission, a lived ownership
                  ­culture shared by all our people and a consis­
                   tent strategy.

                  page 5




                                               1 power
                                                 generation

                                                      flexible and small gas turbines will be an impor­
                                                      tant growth field in the years ahead. find out
                                                      how our sgt-750 in lubmin, germany, is helping
                                                      secure europe’s power supply.

                                                      page 20




2

                                                               our
                                                               strategy
                                                               our strategy defines the direction our company
                                                               is taking, sets the focus for our business activities
                                                               and determines our entrepreneurial priorities.

                                                               page 85




our
­culture
at siemens, we live and nurture an ownership
­culture – because, by giving his or her best,
 each ­individual makes a vital contribution to
 our ­company’s overall success.

page 41




                                                       4 imaging   and
                                                         in-vitro diagnostics

3 energy
  application
                                                           rush university medical center in chicago
                                                           demonstrates how we’re helping hospital
                                                           operators and clinicians worldwide offer the
                                                           best possible healthcare at affordable prices.
      our intelligent software solutions are setting
      new standards – for example, in qatar, where         page 74
      a new elevated conveyor system for the hamad
      international airport in doha was planned com­
      pletely digitally and commissioned well before
      the airport itself was opened.

      page 64                                                                                                          3

    for over 165 years, siemens has stood for
    engineering excellence and innovation, for
    quality and reliability, for human creativity
    and drive, for stability and financial solidity
    and, last but not least, for good corporate
    citizenship. our vision 2020 fully embraces
    this legacy while moving us forward into
    a successful future.




4

our path




making real what matters

6     our path




    what do we stand for?

    what sets us apart?

    how can we achieve
    long-term success?




                 joe kaeser
                          president and ceo
                            of siemens ag

                                                        our path   7




vision 2020



dear readers,
if you want to gear a company to the future, you’ve got to
provide answers to the following questions: what do you
stand for? what sets you apart? how will you achieve long­
term success? and that’s what we’ve done. vision 2020
is paving the way to a successful future. and to make it
happen, we’re focusing on three topics:


1. a clear mission
a mission expresses a company’s self­understanding and
deﬁnes its aspirations. “we make real what matters.” that’s
our aspiration. that’s what we stand for. that’s what sets
us apart. a reflection of our strong brand, it’s the mission
that inspires us to succeed.


2. a lived ownership culture
one engine of sustainable business is our ownership culture,
in which every employee takes personal responsibility for
our company’s success. “always act as if it were your own
company” – this maxim applies to everyone at siemens, from
managing board member to trainee.


3. a consistent strategy
with our positioning along the electriﬁcation value chain,
we have knowhow that extends from power generation to
power transmission, power distribution and smart grid to
the efﬁcient application of electrical energy. and with our
outstanding strengths in automation, we’re well equipped
for the future and the age of digitalization. vision 2020

8   our path

                                                             our path   9




deﬁnes an entrepreneurial concept that will enable our
company to consistently occupy attractive growth ﬁelds,
sustainably strengthen our core business and outpace
our competitors in efficiency and performance. it’s our
path to long­term success. and we’re measuring our
progress: seven overarching goals support this aim.
 see page 16



we’ll be working on the three areas outlined above. they
describe the key factors that are enabling us to lead
siemens into a successful future. throughout this process,
we will gear all our actions to the requirements of our
customers, our owners and our employees as well as to the
values of society. i personally intend to ensure that the
next generation will inherit a better company. that’s my
vision. that’s my responsibility. that’s my promise.




joe kaeser
president and ceo of siemens ag




                       vision 2020
                                      we make real what matters

10       our path




     mission



        we make real what matters
      by setting the benchmark
     in the way we
        electrify, automate and digitalize
     the world around us.
     ingenuity drives us
     and what we create is yours.
       together we deliver.

                                                                        our path         11




shaped by our history, culture and values, our mission defines
how we understand ourselves. as an expression of a strong brand,
it formulates our aspiration.


we make real what matters
grounded in reality, we’re inspired by the desire to shape the future – in cooperation
with our partners. leveraging our passion for engineering, we make real what
matters, working with our customers to help improve the lives of people today and
in the generations to come. customers all around the world trust us and count on
our knowhow and our reliability to make them more competitive.


by setting the benchmark
we empower our customers to set benchmarks – with our power of innovation,
our leading technologies, our global presence and, last but not least, our financial
solidity. we generate value by transforming the value chain of electrification,
reaching across both the digital and physical worlds. our highly qualified and
committed employees are the foundation for achieving this.


together we deliver
our knowledge is the basis of our performance. we partner with our customers,
leveraging sustainable business practices. with determination and ingenuity, we
deliver engineering excellence, taking personal ownership until we jointly succeed.


this is the foundation on which we’ve been tackling the challenges
of our time ever since werner von siemens and johann georg halske
founded our company in berlin more than 165 years ago.

12             our path




     positioning


     how can we achieve long­term success? and how are we positioning
     ourselves to make it happen? our setup is aligned with framework
     conditions worldwide, with the long­term trends that define our markets,
     with our competitive environment and with the requirements of
     customers, partners and societies. focused on the long term, it stands
     for what all our business activities have in common.


     electrification
     we’re positioned along the value chain of electrification. our products are
     designed to generate, transmit, distribute and utilize electrical energy with
     particularly high efficiency. our roots are in electrification. we’ve been lead­
     ers in this field until now, and it’s here that our future lies.


     automation
     we’ve been successfully automating customer processes for years. in auto­
     mation, too, we’ve already captured leading market positions worldwide.
     we intend to maintain and expand these positions.


     digitalization
     we want to exploit the opportunities offered by digitalization even better.
     because added value for our customers lies more and more in software
     solutions and intelligent data analysis.


     across the areas of electrification, automation and digitalization, there
     are concrete growth fields – fields in which we see major potential. we’re
     rigorously aligning ourselves to exploit this potential in order to achieve
     long­term success. our setup reflects this aspiration.
       see page 88

                                                            our path                  13




     digitalization


                      power                             energy
                      generation                        application
    automation




electrification                    power transmission,                 imaging and
                                   power distribution and              in-vitro diagnostics
                                   smart grid

14            our path




     stages


     our positioning and our strategic direction are closely linked to defined
     milestones – the stages in which we’ll lead our company into a successful
     future. we’re not only focusing on the next one or two quarters or the
     next reporting season but on the years and, perhaps, even decades to come.
     with this future in view, we now have to take all the right steps to create
     value – for the short, medium and long term.


     short term: drive performance
     our first task is to boost our performance. to achieve this aim, we’re retai­
     loring our structures and responsibilities. we’re also focusing on business
     excellence, in other words, the reliable management of our businesses.
     we want to get even those businesses that aren’t reaching their full potential
     back on a successful track and make them competitive again.


     medium term: strengthen core
     to achieve long­term success, you have to focus on the things that make you
     strong and put other things aside. in line with this philosophy, we intend to
     strengthen our successful businesses along the value chain of electrification.
     among other things, we want to allocate resources in a more rigorous way
     in order to expand in strategic growth fields.    see page 90



     long term: scale up
     but we won’t stop there. with the same resolve, we’ll intensify our efforts to
     seize further growth opportunities and tap new fields.

                                         our path   15




value

                                         scale up

                  strengthen core

        drive performance

        2015   2016 2017 2018    2019    2020




                vision 2020
                                stages

16                our path




      goals


      only those who set demanding goals can be successful over the long term.
      that’s why we’ve linked the success of vision 2020 to the attainment of
      seven overarching goals – goals that will provide us with a yardstick and a
      compass on the path to 2020. in particular, we aim to:




              implement stringent corporate governance                                               goal:
                                                                                                     cut costs by
              we’re simplifying and accelerating our processes while
              reducing complexity in our company and strengthening
              our corporate governance functions. in this way, we plan
                                                                                                   ~ €1
                                                                                                     billion
              to reduce our costs by roughly €1 billion. the savings are
              expected to be mainly effective in 2016.




                                           create value sustainably
                                           we’re tapping attractive growth fields and getting
       goal:                               those businesses that haven’t yet reached their full
       tap growth fields and               potential back on track.
       get underperforming
       businesses back on track




                                                                                    goal:
                                                                                    roce of

                                                                                              to   20%
                                                                                           15%
                                                                           goal:
                                                                           growth
     execute ﬁnancial target system
     we’re rigorously implementing our financial target
     system in order to consistently achieve our capital
     efficiency target – an roce of 15% to 20%. our aim is                 most relevant
     to grow faster than our most relevant competitors.                    competitors

                                                                                 our path                    17




  expand global management
  we want more than 30% of our division and business
  unit managers to be based outside germany by 2020.
                                                                       goal:
  we now have business activities in virtually every
  country of the world, generating some 85% of our
  revenue outside germany. we want our management
                                                                   > 30%
                                                                       of division and
  to reflect this global orientation more strongly in                  business unit management
  the future.                                                          outside germany




          goal:


     ≥ 20%
          improvement in                  be a partner of choice for our customers
          net promoter score
                                          we want to be our customers’ partner of choice – both
                                          now and in the future. to measure customer satisfac-
                                          tion, we use the net promoter score – a comprehensive
                                          customer satisfaction survey that we conduct every
                                          year. our goal is to improve our score in the survey by
                                          at least 20%.




be an employer of choice                                                       goal:

highly committed and satisfied employees are the basis
of our success. we are – and want to remain – an                       > 75%   approval rating in the
attractive employer. that’s why we conduct a global                            categories leadership
engagement survey to measure employee satisfaction.                            and diversity in our global
                                                                               engagement survey
in the categories leadership and diversity, we
aim to achieve an approval rating of over 75% on
a sustainable basis.




          goal:
                                                foster an ownership culture

          ≥50%                                  in the future, our employees will have an even greater
                                                stake in their company’s success. we want to increase
          increase in the
          number of employee                    the current number of employee shareholders by at
          shareholders                          least 50%.

18            our path




     strategic framework


     to be successful, a company needs more than concrete financial targets.
     it also requires a comprehensive strategic framework that closely aligns
     the central fields of company management. vision 2020 defines this frame­
     work for siemens.


     ownership culture
     the most important guarantee for the long­term success of our strategy
     is a strong culture. it’s the origin and foundation for all our consider­
     ations. we want to reflect the basic values of responsible action within
     a strong ownership culture – throughout the entire company.
       see page 42



     customer and business focus
     we’re sharpening our customer and business focus through rigorous
     positioning and clear priorities for stringent resource allocation. for
     this reason, we’re concentrating our efforts on selected growth fields.
       see page 88



     governance
     we’re also strengthening our internal setup by streamlining our company
     structure and making our management even more effective – in a word,
     we’re ensuring strong governance.      see page 92



     management model
     last but not least, we’re further expanding the original one siemens
     financial concept to make it a comprehensive management model
     encompassing our financial targets, our operating system and our
     underlying approach to sustainability.    see page 94

                                  our path        19




               customer and
               business focus




ownership       siemens             gov ernance
 culture




                 management
                   model




            strategic framework

     power generation         power transmission, power distribution and smart grid         energy application         imaging and in-vitro diagnostics




     more iq per megawatt –
     generating power more
     efficiently
           efficient power generation requires intelligent solutions like those
     offered by our sgt-750 gas turbine. with a capacity of 37 megawatts,
     the sgt-750 is one of our smaller gas turbines – but its capabilities are
     enormous. on the baltic sea in lubmin, germany, exhaust heat from
     the ­turbine is used to heat natural gas arriving on site through the
     nord stream pipeline, thus keeping the gas transportable. in addition,
     the electricity generated by the turbine is fed into the public grid. this
     two-fold benefit is further enhanced by the turbine’s high efficiency and
     low emissions, which make the sgt-750 one of the most ecofriendly
     turbines in its class.




                           + 60%
                           experts expect global ­demand
                           for electricity to increase signi­
                           ficantly by 2030.




                                  2×
                                  the demand for electricity
                                  is growing twice as fast
                                  as the global population.
20

21

      power generation   




     “already during the
     design phase, we placed
     great importance on
     the turbine’s future ease
     of service as well as its
     efficiency.”

     anders hellberg,
     siemens sales manager,
     product manager and
     development engineer




      less is more     to boost efficiency, you have to eliminate    neers leveraged the advantages of digitalization already
      unnecessary losses. intelligent solutions can cut these to a   during the design phase. using multi-layered 3d models,
      minimum, enabling the siemens sgt-750 gas turbine to           they simulated and planned future maintenance work while
      achieve a mechanical efficiency of more than 40 %. this        still working on first drafts of the new turbines.
22    requires farsighted planning early on. that’s why our engi-

    24 bar
    high compressor pressure enhances
    efficiency and cuts emissions.




                                        95%
                                        fuel efficiency of up to 95 % can
                                        be achieved with combined heat
                                        and power (chp) systems.




true greatness lies in the details     efficiency, cost effec-              optimizes fuel use and minimizes harmful nox emissions.
tiveness and reliability are the three main requirements for                with its advanced materials and precision p    ­ rocessing, our
gas turbines. improvements to details make it possible to                   sgt-750 is deployable worldwide under all possible climatic
constantly push the limits of what is feasible. a prime                     conditions – in the desert as well as in the arctic, on the high
­example is our dry low emissions combustion system, which                  seas as well as on land.                                           23

     power generation   




     energy supply security according to plan     ensuring             errors to be detected and resolved at an early stage. the
     the continued successful provision of energy in the future        advantage: the turbine can operate at full load for nearly eight
     will require sophisticated energy management. to get a grip       years, or 68,000 hours, before it has to be comprehensively
     on rising energy costs, power generation must become more         overhauled. with rigorous monitoring, this service interval
     efficient. our online monitoring system performs tasks such       can be extended even further. that’s what we call energy
     as controlling the capacity utilization of systems and continu­   supply security according to plan.
24   ously monitoring sensitive components – enabling potential

                                                                                            17/17
                                                                                            only 17 maintenance
                                                                                            days are scheduled over
                                                                                            a period of 17 years –
                                                                                            a clear promise.




               68,000
                the gas turbine can operate
                at full load for 68,000 hours
                ­before it’s due for its first
               ­comprehensive overhaul.


maintenance with minimum downtimes     downtime                 ­ aintenance days over a period of 17 years. that’s the stand­
                                                                m
is costly and impairs processes. to minimize it, we designed    ard we’ve set – a benchmark made possible by a design that
the sgt-750. our aim was to ensure that the new turbine         offers ease of service and ready access to all important parts.
would have the least downtime in its class. and our engi-       in addition, high-quality materials and components minimize
neers have kept their word: the sgt-750 has just 17 scheduled   the likelihood of failures.

                                                                                                                                  25

     power generation   




     how the sgt-750 is helping safeguard europe’s gas                   for further transport, for which 100 bar is required. on the
     supplies     along its route from siberia’s large natural gas       other hand, the gas has already cooled down to such an extent
     reserves, the nord stream pipeline transports natural gas           that a further reduction in pressure could cause the pipelines
     through the cold baltic sea. not only does the temperature of       to become iced. that’s where our sgt-750 gas turbine comes
     the gas drop during transport, but the pressure also falls – from   in, helping ensure the smooth provision of gas to europe with
     about 215 bar at the russian city of portovaya to a maximum         its exhaust heat. the fact that the power generated by the
     of 120 bar in lubmin, germany – resulting in a challenging          turbine is fed into the grid and can supply up to 50,000 house-
26   situation. on the one hand, the pressure is still not low enough    holds with electricity rounds off this success story.

combating ice with 459 °c     the joule-thomson effect         more efficient and more ecofriendly: exhaust heat produced
describes the phenomenon whereby natural gas in pipelines      during power generation is ideal for heating the natural gas.
cools when the pressure is reduced. at temperatures near the   reaching temperatures as high as 459 °c, the exhaust airflow
freezing point, a great deal of energy is needed to heat the   supplies enough energy to heat the gas at the pipeline’s
gas in order to prevent icing. in the past, gas-fired boiler   landfall facility in lubmin, even during the cold winter
plants with a heat output of 40 megawatts each were used       months – thus enabling the gas to be further transported.
for this purpose. the sgt-750 offers technology that is both
                                                                                                                               27

     power generation   




                                                    experts are predicting that the demand for electricity
                                                    will grow twice as fast as the global population, surging
                                                    around 60% by the year 2030. since resources are scarce,
                                                    power generation will increasingly require highly effi-
                                                    cient, customized solutions – just like the ones offered
                                                    by our flexible and small gas turbines. these gas tur-
                                                    bines help secure a stable energy supply since they ’re
                                                    well suited for decentralized applications. thanks to
                                                    decades of experience in the manufacture of gas tur-
                                                    bines, we’re ideally positioned in this dynamic growth
                                                    market, drawing upon extensive expertise to support
                                                    customers worldwide.



                                                    decentralized energy supply made reliable
     striking features of the new sgt-750           gas-fired power plants are considered an ideal supplement to renewable energy
     include its efficiency and ecofriendliness,    sources because they’re available at short notice when the wind isn’t blowing or
     combined with high availability and
     ­reli­ability. the turbine has an electrical
                                                    the sun isn’t shining.
      ­efficiency of 39.5 % and achieves an
       ­efficiency of 40.7 % when used as a         decentralized energy supplies play a key role in an intelligent power mix. an
        ­mecha­nical drive. when exhaust heat
                                                    increasing number of companies maintain their own power plants that, using a
         is used in a combined heat and power
         ­system, fuel efficiency can be as high    combined heat and power system, supply valuable process heat that can be used
          as 95 %.                                  in manufacturing or for building services – all at competitive electricity prices.
        www.siemens.com/sgt-750
                                                    our portfolio of gas turbines is already ideally tailored to meet the needs of this
                                                    market environment. models with a capacity of 5 to 400 megawatts cover a broad
                                                    spectrum of applications and ensure efficiency, reliability, flexibility and environ-
                                                    mental compatibility. low lifecycle costs and high profitability round off this
                                                    positive picture.

                                                    our acquisition of rolls-royce’s aero-derivative gas turbines business will close
                                                    an important gap in our portfolio. originally developed for use in aviation, the
                                                    gas turbines from rolls-royce feature an efficient, compact and weight-optimized
                                                    design. this makes them particularly attractive for energy supplies in the oil and
                                                    gas industry. they’re also used in decentralized power supplies because they can
                                                    start up very quickly when needed and rapidly generate power. these advantages
                                                    are particularly useful for managing energy peaks or power reserves for industry
                                                    or for stabilizing power grids. as a result, we’re expanding our access to the
                                                    attractive market of flexible and small gas turbines. we expect high growth poten-
                                                    tial in this market in the years to come.




28

         sgt-750 | fins
                        pång, sweden
         the sgt-750
                     sees the light
         were presente              of day: in no
                       d to the gene               vember 2010
                                     ral public for              , the benefits
                                                    the very first              of our sgt-75
                                                                   time in finsp              0 gas turbines
                                                                                 ång, sweden
                                                                                             .




    sgt-750 | lu
                  bmin, germ
                               any
    doubly ef ficie
                    nt: in lubmin
    grid and safe                 , our sgt-750
                  guards europe                 feeds electricit
                                 ’s gas supply                   y into the loca
                                               with its exha                     l power
                                                             ust heat.




 sgt-750 | al
               tamira, mex
                              ico
textile produc
                tion using on
to the factor                   -site power ge
              ies of a textile                 neration: in
                               manufacture                  mexico, our
                                            r – one exam                  sgt-750 is su
                                                           ple of a dece                pplying pow
                                                                         ntralized pow              er
                                                                                       er supply.




                                                                                                               29

     power generation   power transmission, power distribution and smart grid        energy application         imaging and in-vitro diagnostics




     everything under
     ­control – thanks to
      reliable power grids
           brazil’s social and economic structure has been transformed in the past
     few years, strengthening the country’s domestic market and increasing the
     supply of and demand for goods and services. to prevent power blackouts,
     which can take a heavy toll on a nation’s infrastructure and hamper its
     economic development, brazil’s booming market requires a robust power
     grid. by implementing a centrally managed smart grid solution, siemens
     and its partners are helping make the country ’s power grid more reliable,
     flexible and efficient. the solution, which is enabling brazil to close the
     gap to the leaders in infrastructure technology, has placed the nation in the
     vanguard of a development that is set to spread to many other countries
     around the world in the years ahead.




                                                        5 million km²
                                                        two-thirds of brazil is
                                                        covered by the power grid.




30

97 %
the grid supplies nearly all
the country’s electricity.




                               > 120 gigawatts
                               total grid capacity




                                                     31

     power transmission, power distribution and smart grid   




     reliable power is a prerequisite for growth     brazil’s          from hydropower plants. monitoring this huge and complex
     power grid is a system of superlatives. its more than 100,000     system is the role of ons, brazil’s national grid operator. as
     kilometers of high-voltage lines can transport over 120 giga-     part of a strategic plan, ons invested in a unique solution to
     watts of electricity – compared to around 65 gigawatts at the     increase the reliability and flexibility of the power grid and
     turn of the century. in addition, around 80 % of the country ’s   avoid the risk of blackouts and faults.
     electricity comes from renewable energy sources, mainly

32

                                       “ the combined expertise of                         “our new system places the
                                       cepel and siemens, plus the                         country in the global van­
                                       mutual trust and respect                            guard of energy management
                                       among all partners, were key                        ­tech­nology – thanks to
                                       to the project’s major success.”                     the close cooperation and
                                                                                            ­outstanding competence
                                       albert melo, ­
                                       general director of cepel
                                                                                             of siemens, cepel and ons.”

                                                                                           hermes chipp,
                                                                                           general director of ons




a grid built on experience     in 2009, a consortium com-          “smart grid.” monitoring and controlling power transmission
prising siemens and cepel, the research branch of the              in real time, the grid adapts more effectively to variations
eletrobras group, was selected by ons to develop a state-of-       in demand and makes more intelligent use of available
the-art energy management system. known as reger, the              resources. reger has been a major success, as represen­
system is now monitoring and controlling brazil’s power            tatives of ons, cepel and siemens can confirm: carlos
grid. leveraging its wide-ranging experience in installing         adolfo de souza pereira of siemens, albert melo of cepel,
similar systems worldwide, siemens cooperated with cepel           guilherme vieira de mendonça of siemens and hermes chipp
to develop an intelligent power transmission solution or           of ons (from left to right).                                   33

     power transmission, power distribution and smart grid   




     monitoring the brazilian grid    one of brazil’s four             and if one regional control center becomes very busy, another
     regional control centers is located in rio de janeiro. respon-    can always back it up. the new energy management system
     sible for the southeast region, the center monitors data points   utilizes available resources better than the heterogeneous
     from the country ’s most developed area – which accounts          grid monitoring system that preceded it – thereby reducing
     for around 80 % of brazil’s energy consumption. monitoring        operating costs and making brazil’s energy system more
     and control systems support all the grid’s operating functions.   reliable, more flexible and more efficient.

34

adaptability is a matter of intelligence     brazil’s grid      by 2020. since rainfall volumes are not always constant,
operators face a huge challenge: ensuring the reliable and      however, the amount of electricity supplied by hydropower
economical transport of energy over great distances from        is subject to natural fluctuations. declines must be compen-
many different parts of the country. roughly 80 % of brazil’s   sated for in real time. grid operators also have to plan for
electricity is currently generated by hydropower plants, of     foreseeable demand peaks – at midday, for example, when
which there are now more than 1,100 in the country. to meet     large numbers of air conditioners are switched on – and
the nation’s growing energy requirements, the government        make additional power plant capacity available as quickly
is planning to build up to 50 additional hydropower plants      as ­possible.                                                  35

     power transmission, power distribution and smart grid   




     always up-to-date     brazil’s power grid covers around five   maintenance. to safeguard the grid’s long-term performance,
     million square kilometers or about two-thirds of the country   siemens and cepel have pledged to keep the hardware and
     and supplies 97 % of the nation’s electricity requirements.    software up-to-date, which is made easier thanks to the use
     developed by siemens and cepel, the proven hardware and        of evergreen technology. their ongoing partnership ensures
     software that control and monitor the grid combine high        that brazil’s smart grid will always operate reliably through-
36   performance with outstanding reliability while minimizing      out its entire lifecycle.

generating value with innovative solutions            brazil’s   the causes can be identified, impacts minimized and power
smart grid has already convincingly demonstrated its value:      restored much faster than ever before. and smart grids hold
the resources available to the grid are now being used more      even more potential for the future. they ’re a prerequisite for
flexibly and efficiently. reger situational awareness tools      making power grids more intelligent and thus simplifying
are reducing the risk of blackouts – an important advantage      the management and control of tomorrow’s energy flows.
not only for car manufacturers. however, if outages do occur,                                                                      37

     power transmission, power distribution and smart grid   




38

smart grids are being implemented or planned world-
wide as an energy-efficient, ecofriendly solution for the
reliable supply of power. this complex undertaking
requires new strategies and partnerships, innovative
technologies and tailor-made solutions. as one of the
world’s largest providers in the industry, siemens offers
a comprehensive portfolio of products, solutions and
services that support energy producers, grid operators
and power utilities.



a smart grid for brazil
the transformation of brazil’s power system into a smart grid has been driven           the amount of power being consumed and
primarily by a consortium comprising brazil’s electrical energy research center         generated worldwide is continually increas­
                                                                                        ing. the share of electricity in the energy mix
(cepel) and siemens. our company was selected as a partner for the project on           is on the rise, as is the percentage of power
the basis of its virtually unparalleled experience in designing and implementing        being produced from renewable, decentral­
smart grid applications worldwide.                                                      ized sources. the greatly fluctuating feed-in
                                                                                        from renewables is a further burden for grids
                                                                                        that are already overloaded. leveraging
initial planning for the new system in brazil began in 2009. in 2013, the country’s     its worldwide experience in designing and
national grid operator, ons, commissioned the project. known as reger, the              operating grids, siemens develops intelligent
                                                                                        solutions that better integrate power grids
system integrates five energy management systems as well as four regional oper-
                                                                                        under such conditions and make them smarter.
ating centers into a nationwide power grid.

reger is one of the safest, most advanced and most reliable systems implemented
to date. brazil has thus closed the gap to the world’s leading industrialized nations
and paved the way for the ongoing growth of its economy and infrastructure.


intelligent grids: the key to saving electricity
the development of intelligent grids is one of the key challenges of the future         an it revolution has begun in the area of
for the global energy industry. for the first time, the unilateral flow of energy is    power grids: information and communica­
                                                                                        tion technologies are boosting security of
being transformed into a multidimensional exchange of energy and information.           supply and enhancing the efficiency of grid
                                                                                        infrastructure operations. at the same time,
intelligent and networked energy systems are complex – not only in design, but          grid control software and company software
                                                                                        are becoming increasingly integrated,
also in operation. but there’s also a payoff: the systems offer far more than just
                                                                                        ­opening up new business models for utili­
a failsafe power supply. advanced smart metering solutions make it possible,             ties. siemens offers the energy industry a
for example, to balance generation and consumption more closely while manag-             complete range of products, solutions and
                                                                                         services from a ­single source – from grid
ing – and not merely reacting to – the demand for power. they also enable grid
                                                                                         protection, automation, planning, control,
operators to provide pricing incentives to customers who save electricity during         monitoring and ­diagnostics systems to
periods of high demand or shift their consumption to off-peak periods. the advan-        ­products and turnkey solutions.
tages – flattened demand peaks and improved customer behavior – enhance
energy efficiency, particularly for decentralized power plants and large-scale
­consumers, while ultimately making a further active contribution to environmen-
 tal protection by increasing the share of renewables.




                                                                                                                                          39

     a culture can’t be dictated or imposed:
     a ­culture must be lived. all around the world,
     we want to ­foster a culture that appeals
     to the commitment, creative drive and
     ­entrepreneurial spirit of every individual –
      in short, an ownership culture.




40

our culture




 acting entrepreneurially

42            our culture




     culture makes the difference


     even the best strategy can’t succeed unless it’s supported by
     a strong culture. that’s why we at siemens live and foster an
     ownership culture – a culture that encourages every indi-
     vidual in our company to give his or her best in his or her
     position in order to help build siemens’ long-term success.

     we’ve asked employees to explain what they understand by
     an ownership culture. you’ll meet some of them on the pages
     that follow.

                                      our culture   43




always act as if it were
your own company.




         joe kaeser
                  president and ceo
                    of siemens ag

44                our culture




     「企業にとってのベストは何かを常
     に念頭に、自分のベストを尽くすこ
     とへの責任とコミットメントを、誠
     実に表したい」
     it is genuinely demonstrating commitment and responsibility
     to do my best and what is best for the company.




                                lena ikejiri de medeiros
                                                                   human resources manager

                          our culture          45




mariel von schumann
                head of governance & markets

46   our culture




        together with my team, i work hard and with dedication to ease the
        workload for the colleagues who take over where we’ve left off.




                             rickard olsson
                                                            workshop test manager

                              our culture   47




janina kugel
             chief diversity officer
         head of hr people & leadership

48                   our culture




     ownership culture is an asset as well as
     a prerequisite for our global success.


                                                georgia davari
                                                                 apprentice
                                                             europeans@siemens

                                                                            our culture   49




for me, ownership culture is having both feet on the ground,
knowing the local context like the back of my hand and creating
a culture for the people around me that will motivate them
to do their best.




                                         hamad al khayyat
                                                                  general manager
                                                                     oil & gas

50             our culture




     ownership culture


     it’s not just strategy that makes the difference; it’s also
     a company’s culture, its values and what it stands for.




                                                     leadership

               equity




                                  ownership
                                   culture                     behaviors




               values


                                         people
                                         orientation




                                   our culture

                                                                our culture              51




siemens is a company that was led for generations by owners who
had a passionate interest in the firm’s long­term successful develop­
ment. they all knew that every individual makes a contribution
every day to the company’s enduring success. we’re following this
conviction and want to foster an ownership culture worldwide that
includes all of our people. we believe the following principles are
especially important here:


owners ensure our business success
our managers should serve as role models for the company’s strategic direction
and ensure the sustainable and efficient use of available resources – thus inspiring
and empowering their teams to give their best for the company.


our behaviors bring the ownership culture to life
entrepreneurial behavior should be the standard and foundation for how we act
at siemens. this applies to each individual in the company – since only then can
behaviors constantly evolve and improve.


owners care for each individual
we strive for a people­oriented approach that values and clearly fosters diversity
of experience and expertise. if this is reflected in all that we do, we’ll improve the
performance of our company.


ownership culture is based on our company values
if everyone in the company acts responsibly, achieves excellent results and is
innovative, they will personally contribute to the sustainable success of siemens.
responsible, excellent, innovative – these values are the foundation of our
ownership culture.


owners identify themselves fully with siemens
we strongly believe that employee shareholders act responsibly and are oriented to
the long term when they directly participate in their company’s success. that’s why
the equity culture is an integral part of our ownership culture.  see page 63

52               our culture




     be a role model and follow safe routines for a safer future.




                                         jesper rönnbäck
                                                                    electrician

                                                                        our culture       53




ownership culture is being self­motivated by continuous
improvement for sustainable success, whatever your position is.




                         juliana furlanetto odoni
                                                                  sales support manager

54   our culture




                   devina pasta
                              corporate strategies

                              our culture   55




michael cheng
                senior manager
          engineering for angiography

56                    our culture




creating a good working environment,
trusting and respecting one another –
that’s what ownership culture means to me.




                                      elena rubio lópez
                                                          apprentice
                                                      europeans@siemens

                                                                                      our culture   57




ownership culture is exercising a sense of belonging, taking the
responsibility for doing your best, unconditionally, every day.




                                      sergio souza
                                                                      program manager
                                                                   transformation program
                                                                        siemens brazil

58                   our culture




                                                      lena ikejiri de medeiros
                                                      são paulo, brazil
                                                      i
                                                      after graduating with a degree in business administration and
                                                      specializing in hr, lena ikejiri de medeiros joined siemens in 1996
                                                      as an intern and has worked in human resources with passion ever
                                                      since. lena’s core competencies are employee and leadership develop­
                                                      ment, succession planning and learning – the areas for which she’s
                                                      currently responsible at siemens brazil. drawing on two cultural her­
                                                      itages, brazilian and japanese, lena lives both cultures’ values with
                                                      great enthusiasm. she’s further enhanced her intercultural capabilities
                                                      by working in a variety of latin american countries.




     mariel von schumann
     munich, germany
     i
     mariel von schumann joined siemens in 1999. after serving
     the company in various capacities, she was appointed head of
     governance & markets in november 2013. in her current func­
     tion, she combines internal management of governance topics
     with the external view from the capital market. this includes,
     for instance, communicating with the shareholder community,
     coordinating remuneration of siemens’ managing board and
     top executives, and managing the company’s organizational
     structure and internal equity programs. in addition, she orches­
     trates our initiative for fostering an ownership culture at
     siemens, one of the main building blocks of our vision 2020.
     she’s eager to be a role model in that respect – living this
     ownership culture drives her actions.




                                                       rickard olsson
                                                       finspång, sweden
                                                       i
                                                       rickard olsson is a workshop test manager at our siemens
                                                       industrial turbomachinery ab site in finspång, a town in the
                                                       swedish province of östergötland. once famous for its cannon
                                                       production, the locality now pursues peaceful activities, build­
                                                       ing the most modern and efficient gas turbine in its class.
                                                       rickard looks back on many years of experience in this field.
                                                       he started his career as a trainee, followed by on­site assembly
                                                       and commissioning work. before assuming his current duties,
                                                       he held various positions in a transfer project in the middle
                                                       east and worked as a warranty engineer in europe.

                                                                                           our culture                        59




janina kugel
munich, germany
i
janina kugel is responsible for strategic personnel topics and executive
development at siemens. after studying at universities in mainz and
verona, she began work as a management consultant in 1997. since
joining siemens in 2001, she’s been involved in the company’s develop­
ment in various capacities. from 2012 to 2013, janina headed the global
hr organization at osram and prepared the business for the ipo that
was completed in july 2013. since 2014, she’s been chief diversity officer
at siemens ag.




                                                                     georgia davari | elena rubio lópez
                                                                     berlin, germany
                                                                     i
                                                                     in many eu countries, one out of every two young people
                                                                     has neither a job nor a vocational trainee position. through
                                                                     the europeans@siemens initiative, we’re helping improve
                                                                     this situation by giving young people the chance to com­
                                                                     plete a dual education­and­training program in germany.
                                                                     since 2012, 90 young europeans from 18 eu member
                                                                     countries have been selected by their respective siemens
                                                                     regional companies and sent to berlin. among them are
                                                                     georgia davari and elena lópez, who entered the program
                                                                     on august 1, 2014. whereas 24­year­old georgia had
                                                                     already earned a college degree in automation engineer­
                                                                     ing in her home country of greece, 18­year­old elena left
                                                                     spain after attaining the “bachillerato,” which is a college
                                                                     entrance qualification. in the coming years, in alternating
                                                                     phases of theoretical instruction and hands­on practice,
                                                                     these two women will learn the occupation of electronics
                                                                     technician. after that, they intend to take the knowledge
                                                                     and skills acquired in the program back to their home coun­
                                                                     tries. but first, they need to become proficient in german,
                                                                     the language in which the final examination is conducted.

60                       our culture




           hamad al khayyat
           general manager oil & gas, qatar
           i
           hamad al khayyat joined siemens wll qatar in december 2010
           as general manager of the company’s oil and gas business
           in the gulf state. as a highly respected expert in qatar’s oil, gas
           and petrochemicals industry, hamad boasts vast experience
           in strategic planning and in fostering business relationships with
           other organizations and the representatives of governmental
           and non­governmental institutions. as a large number of projects
           impressively attest, he’s helped strengthen siemens’ successful,
           trust­based partnership with the nation of qatar.




                                                                jesper rönnbäck
                                                                finspång, sweden
                                                                i
                                                                jesper rönnbäck plays a key role in keeping production
                                                                running smoothly at our gas turbine plant in the swedish
                                                                town of finspång. starting out as a technical assistant
                                                                and moving up to the position of foreman in 2010, jesper is
                                                                responsible for all the plant’s electrical installation work,
                                                                including the connecting up of the sgt­750, one of our
                                                                latest gas turbines. a smaller gas turbine in the siemens
                                                                portfolio, the sgt­750 is capable of generating 37 mega­
                                                                watts of power. its outstanding features include versatility,
                                                                high efficiency and low emissions – all of which make it one
                                                                of the most environmentally friendly turbines in its class.




     juliana furlanetto odoni
     são paulo, brazil
     i
     juliana furlanetto odoni holds a bachelor’s degree in environmental
     engineering and a master’s degree in business management. the
     28­year­old brazilian first came to siemens in 2008 as an intern in cor­
     porate quality management before joining a trainee program in 2010.
     since 2011, she’s been working as a sales support manager. always
     motivated to improve processes, juliana has participated in several
     projects and programs focused on making siemens brazil a benchmark
     in leadership, productivity and customer satisfaction. very committed
     to sustainability issues, she’s also been serving as an environmental
     education volunteer and panelist.

                                                                                             our culture                           61




                                                                      devina pasta
                                                                      munich, germany
                                                                      i
                                                                      an electrical engineer, devina pasta joined siemens
                                                                      india in 2006, where she held positions in the area of
                                                                      motion control – first in product management, later in
                                                                      business development. there, she launched a product
                                                                      for the asian market and created new business models.
                                                                      after driving business in asia, she now works at
                                                                      corporate strategies in munich, managing aspects of
                                                                      digital transformation – such as a siemens ceo commu­
                                                                      nity – in order to address the key opportunities arising
                                                                      from digitalization. devina has studied, worked and
                                                                      lived in asia, america and europe and thrives in interna­
                                                                      tional environments.




michael cheng
chicago, usa
i
michael cheng works at siemens in the chicago area. he
holds a degree in actuarial mathematics from the university
of michigan. after working for 16 years as a pension con­
sultant, applications specialist, tester and quality assurance
manager in the defined benefits industry, he joined siemens
in 2007. michael successfully led a test center for six years
before moving on to manage a team in systems engineering.




                                                             sergio souza
                                                             são paulo, brazil
                                                             i
                                                             sergio souza joined siemens in 1990 as a field service technician
                                                             in the area of telecommunications. since then, he’s held a wide
                                                             range of positions in brazil and other countries. since august
                                                             2013, sergio has headed the transformation program, a regional
                                                             initiative aimed at making siemens brazil an agile organization
                                                             with an excellent working environment and at enabling the com­
                                                             pany to better serve its customers, better fulfill its responsibilities
                                                             to society and consistently outpace its competitors.

62      our culture




      owners identify themselves
     with their company
      and thus give their best.




                      joe kaeser
                               president and ceo
                                 of siemens ag

                                          our culture         63




strengthening our equity culture


a company owes its existence to the fact that its employees
identify with it, trust it and commit themselves to its
positive development. we’re proud that around 140,000
of our employees are today expressing these feelings
by owning siemens shares. we intend to increase this
figure by at least 50%. therefore, we want employees
below the management level to participate in their
company’s success on an annual basis. because the more
our people trust their own company, the more personal
commitment they will feel and the greater each individual’s
sense of belonging and sense of responsibility will be.
this is the culture we’re striving to create at siemens –
a culture that will be decisive for our company’s long­
term success.

     power generation         power transmission, power distribution and smart grid   energy application           imaging and in-vitro diagnostics




     ready for take-off –
      thanks to virtual
     ­planning
           in may 2014, the word was “ready for take-off ” at hamad international
     airport in doha. each year, some 30 million passengers arrive in or depart from
     qatar by air – a logistical challenge that also encompasses catering services.
     every day, around 82,000 meals are loaded onto specially prepared trolleys that
     convey them to the aircraft and have to be cleaned on return. the whole sys-
     tem runs smoothly, thanks to sophisticated technology and logistics based on
     german engineering. eisenmann se – a global supplier of industrial systems
     headquartered in böblingen, germany – was commissioned to provide a fully
     automated electrified monorail system that enables the trolleys to be trans-
     ported within the airport’s huge logistics center. the engineers from southern
     germany relied on industry software from siemens that allowed them to plan,
     test and optimize the entire system in a virtual environment before it was
     actually installed.




                                                                                                           130 carts
64                                                                                                         simultaneously coordinated
                                                                                                           and ­controlled

20,000 deliveries
a day




                    1.6 km
                    total length of electrified
                    ­monorail system




                                                  65

     energy application   




     intelligent planning is the key     machine and system        qatar for on-site testing of the system in order to spot and
     suppliers such as eisenmann se are now faced with enor-       eliminate weaknesses in the software,” says dr. monika
     mous complexities as well as growing time and cost pres-      schneider, simu­lation expert at eisenmann. today, every-
     sures. the key to mastering these challenges is intelligent   thing is simpler: “thanks to siemens’ tecnomatix plant
     planning and meticulous preparation from the very begin-      simulation ­software, we were able to test the entire system
     ning – with the help of innovative software. “just a few      right here in böblingen – even though the airport itself was
66   years ago, we would’ve had to send a team of engineers to     still under construction.”

it’s best to spot errors before they’re made    ­eisenmann       of all the parameters for the electrified monorail system on
opted for siemens’ tecnomatix software solution, which           the computer before virtually simulating all its processes.
enables engineers to fully visualize, simulate and analyze a     and the processes are numerous: 130 carts move indepen­
system using a “digital twin” model. potential faults or weak-   dently along the 1.6-kilometer electrified monorail system,
nesses can be detected early on and corrected before the         making around 20,000 deliveries every day. there’s no room
system is actually installed. for the hamad international        here for error.
airport project, the engineers conducted a detailed ­analysis                                                                   67

     energy application   




     entering uncharted territory    for the hamad inter­          “ the ­programmers had to foresee every scenario with the
     national airport project, engineers working at computers      potential to cause problems,” says monika schneider – for
     in böblingen, germany, pushed fully loaded flight-service     example, when a trolley fails to reach its station or the stor-
     carts onto waiting trolleys, transported them to the supply   age area for empty trolleys is too small. “ when we used the
     station, unloaded them, cleaned them in the designated area   real electrified monorail system for the first time, everything
     and then conveyed them to the appropriate terminals –         worked just as we’d planned in the virtual world.”
68   all in a virtual environment and up to 20,000 times a day.

errors cost hard cash     “how does an increase in flight      no need for tedious, labor-intensive on-site work, and we
operations affect catering? how can items of different sizes   were able to quantify our business risks, because the possibil­
be transported? what can be done to ensure that system         ity of project delays could be completely eliminated,” ex­plains
processes don’t interfere with one other? ” by answering       ­monika schneider. this approach will enable eisenmann to
questions like these before a system goes into actual opera-    continue shortening its delivery times in the future – a key
tion, tecnomatix offers decisive advantages for mid-sized       competitive edge.
eisenmann. “development times were shortened. there was                                                                           69

     energy application   




                                                                                                           “our software solutions
                                                                                                           ­enable us to ­connect
                                                                                                            ­productivity and
                                                                                                             ­efficiency across the
                                                                                                              entire product and
                                                                                                              ­production lifecycle –
                                                                                                               from product design
                                                                                                               to services.”

                                                                                                           magnus edholm,
                                                                                                           siemens software developer




     in a world full of questions, software provides the               the case of large and complex systems. scenarios and prob-
     answers     in a globalized world, the question is always the     lems can be tested interactively: does the system still run
     same: how can companies boost their productivity and flex-        smoothly when operating at full capacity? where do bottle-
     ibility while cutting costs? tecnomatix software adds a new       necks arise, and how can they be prevented? what’s more,
     dimension to planning. thanks to 3d simulations, users can        every euro invested in the tecnomatix simulation solution
     obtain a networked overview of a nearly limitless abundance       results in savings of up to 12 euros by the time the system is
70   of variables that are nevertheless clearly visualized – even in   completed.

1.                          2.                           3.                            4.                          5.
product design – ­digital   production planning –        production engineering –      production execution –      services – customer service
planning, designing and     digital planning, simulat­   integrated plant manage-      scalable data process       and support throughout
validating of products      ing and optimizing of        ment throughout the entire    ­information in real time   all steps of the value chain
                            ­production and factory      lifecycle                      company-wide
                             ­automation




integration as a success factor     in the future, eisen-                    platform and nx software (mcad), from which data can
mann will standardize its various processes – everything                     be effortlessly transferred to tecnomatix. gerd schneider,
from sales to service – worldwide. for example, the cross-­                  ­corporate vice president at eisenmann, sums it all up: “ this
border exchange of data within the company’s international                    integration is bringing our worldwide project teams even
project teams will be significantly simplified. product devel-                closer together. so its advantages extend far beyond the
opers and system designers are now using siemens software                     benefits of the individual software solutions.”
solutions: teamcenter (plm) as a shared engineering data                                                                                          71

     energy application   




72

as the development and commissioning of the electri-
fied monorail system for hamad international airport                                    1         2

in doha impressively demonstrates, industrial produc-
tion is now inconceivable without integrated software                                   3         4
solutions. thanks to industry software, product devel-
opment is now digitalized and production systems and
                                                                                     1 – hamad international airport is one of
processes are networked – making efficient, flexibly                                 the world’s newest aviation hubs.
reacting production environments possible. with our                                  2, 3 – the design of the passenger ­terminal
comprehensive offerings in the areas of automation                                   complex is inspired by the waves of the
technology, industrial switchgear, industrial drive sys-                             ­arabian gulf. planned to handle some
                                                                                      30 million passengers a year, the building
tems, industry software and services, we supply and                                   includes over 40,000 square meters of
support customers along the entire value chain – from                                 shops, cafés and restaurants.

product design, production planning and engineering                                   4 – at the end of 2015, 19 siemens trams
to actual production and service.                                                     will ­begin operation in qatar’s education
                                                                                      city, linking 25 stations along 11.5 kilometers
                                                                                      ­of track without any overhead contact
                                                                                       lines – thanks to an innovative energy
                                                                                     ­storage ­system.

the future of industry –
linking the virtual and real worlds
new competitors, global value chains and highly transparent markets are all          eisenmann is a leading international supplier
increasing competitive pressures. industrial companies have to boost their pro-      of systems and services for surface finishing
                                                                                     and paint technologies, material flow auto­
ductivity – using innovative technologies that make production more cost-effective   mation, thermal process engineering and
and flexible while cutting time-to-market.                                           environmental technology. located in south­
                                                                                     ern germany, the company’s been building
                                                                                     highly flexible, energy- and resource-efficient
on the way to the fourth industrial revolution                                       manufacturing, assembly and logistics
                                                                                     ­facilities for over 60 years.
scenarios that sounded like science fiction just a few years ago are increasingly
becoming a reality. machines are largely organizing themselves, supply chains            www.eisenmann.com

are automatically coordinating themselves, and products are supplying all their
production data to the machines on which they’ll be manufactured. a new kind
of industrial production – sometimes referred to as the fourth industrial revolu-
tion or industry 4.0 – is now blazing its own trail.

whether revolution or evolution, one thing is certain: the growing demands being     as the first company in the world to bundle
placed on industrial production and the introduction of new technologies have        all offerings for the digital factory under
                                                                                     one roof, we’re ideally positioned to reinforce
ushered in irreversible change. and we’ll play a key role in shaping this change –   and expand our leading role in turning the
because we’re better equipped for the job than virtually any of our competitors.     digitalized company into reality.
as a world-leading provider of automation technology and industry software,
                                                                                         www.siemens.com/
we not only boast decades of experience in industrial production; we’re also one     future-of-manufacturing
of europe’s biggest software companies, with some 17,500 software engineers.
we offer a complete portfolio of industry software, encompassing everything
from the automotive, shipping and aviation industries to the production of chem-
icals, pharmaceuticals and food. we’re shaping the future of industry – today.




                                                                                                                                        73

     power generation         power transmission, power distribution and smart grid         energy application         imaging and in-vitro diagnostics




     moving into the lead –
     in partnership with
     siemens
           hospital operators around the world are faced with the challenge of
     delivering the best possible healthcare, based on state-of-the-art technol-
     ogy, at affordable prices. and rush university medical center in chicago,
     illinois, is no exception. that’s why the facility ’s management team
     decided ten years ago to embark on a major project that would make the
     medical center one of the leading hospitals in the u.s. the ambitious plan
     called for existing buildings to undergo extensive modernization, a new
     building to be constructed and the entire campus to be equipped with
     leading-edge healthcare technology – while the complex remained in oper-
     ation. the hospital’s project team was looking for a partner with worldwide
     experience, outstanding technological competence and a proven track
     record of implementing complex projects – and chose siemens.




74

75

     imaging and in-vitro diagnostics   




     partnering as equals     to provide the best possible con-          ­concurs with peter butler, president and chief operating
     sulting services in the area of healthcare, you must have a         officer of rush, who says, “ i was very involved in the selec-
     fundamental understanding of clinical workflow processes.           tion of siemens. we knew a lot about their culture and their
     that’s why bernard f. peculis, administrative director at rush      impact on healthcare worldwide, and the depth and breadth
     (pictured on the left), places his trust in siemens. by consult-    of what they could bring to our partnership. we felt there was
     ing with jim gurney, project head for siemens (pictured on          really a lot more intellectual capital than other vendors could
     the right), peculis was able not only to clarify product-specific   bring to the table.”
76   questions but also to discuss the project as a whole. he

a made-to-measure hospital     the extensive modern-         walked by staff and patients? how can the highest standards
ization and expansion of a hospital complex is an opportu-   of hygiene be maintained? how can it be embedded to
nity that comes along at best once in a career – and the     accelerate workflow? in the post-9 / 11 era, the list of ques-
opportunity was tackled with great determination at rush     tions also included how to ensure the provision of basic
university medical center. once the decision to implement    medical services for millions of city residents in the wake of
the project had been made, a team was formed to address      an event like a terrorist attack or an epidemic. these are only
fundamental questions relating to the planned changes.       some of the topics the project team considered and dis-
how can a building be designed to minimize the distances     cussed with siemens.                                              77

     imaging and in-vitro diagnostics   




     saving time can save lives    when discussing ideas              analysis of the processes used at some of the world’s leading
     for enhancing clinical workflow, the project team always         hospitals as well as the latest scientific insights into treating
     returned to the key priority: optimizing patient treatment and   stroke victims. based on this model, numerous suggestions
     outcomes. in the case of a medical emergency like a stroke,      for improvements were developed and implemented that
     patients need to obtain medical treatment as quickly as pos-     save time – and can thus save lives. as a result, clinicians at
     sible. here, too, siemens is a competent partner for rush:       many other hospitals in the u.s. now consider rush univer-
     we’ve designed a consulting model that builds upon an            sity medical center a benchmark in stroke treatment.
78

revealing what’s hidden    rush university medical               media, for example, to examine internal organs: siemens
­center is aiming to set standards in healthcare imaging as      supplied the systems and adapted them to the facility ’s
 well. the intelligent networking of newly acquired imaging      requirements. that’s one of the reasons why the medical
 systems was an important part of the hospital’s moderni­        center chose siemens, as the facility ’s ceo larry goodman,
 zation. from computed tomography systems that generate          md, confirms: “ when we pick a technology, we also pick the
 images faster and minimize radiation doses to magnetic          company and the people. they ’re the ones who are critical
 resonance imaging systems for neurological applications and     to the smooth implementation of the new technology. our
 fluoroscopy systems that are used in connection with contrast   partnership with siemens has been very successful.”           79

     imaging and in-vitro diagnostics   




     information is the key to success     in healthcare, as in             on. the challenge was not only to install new systems and
     many other areas, information technology now plays a vital             get them up and running but also to integrate systems from
     role. that’s why it experts from siemens helped rush uni-              other manufacturers that were already in operation. and all
     versity medical center intelligently integrate its medical             the systems had to be incorporated into the medical center’s
     systems and optimize the flow of information. peter butler             it system without a hitch. when the new hospital tower
     recalls, “ in 1982, the last time we renovated the facility, i still   opened its doors in january 2012, everything worked per-
     saw patients being rolled down the hall with x-rays on their           fectly. and siemens employees at the facility are ensuring
     knees.” those days are long gone. working closely with the             that this will continue to be the case.
80   building planners, siemens defined all requirements early

creating knowledge by sharing     comprehensive health-             at the siemens training center and on-site at rush. around
care requires knowledge – or, in dr. goodman’s words, “ train-      150 rush employees have taken part in training sessions so
ing is incredibly important.” that’s why it was essential to        far, thus ensuring that all equipment is optimally utilized.
familiarize hospital personnel with the systems’ capabilities       dr. goodman is thrilled with his employees’ learning curve
as quickly as possible. to accomplish this, a training plan was     and commitment. “the key was that the entire team was
developed for every work group and every function – from            enthusiastic about the project and also willing to take the
doctors and nursing staff to technicians. in addition, the train-   extra time for training. i’m really proud of how the entire
ing time for participants was significantly reduced by offering     organization got on board. we had the spirit and everyone
online training to supplement classroom-based courses held          said, ‘we can do it!’”                                         81

     imaging and in-vitro diagnostics   




82

with the demand for healthcare continually increasing
worldwide, solutions that offer better treatment at
lower cost are needed. at siemens, we’ve been working
for years to improve medical care around the globe with
our imaging and laboratory diagnostics systems and
related it solutions. we partner with hospital oper-
ators throughout the world – providing everything from
consulting for the construction of new facilities to inno-
vative healthcare technologies, intelligent software
solutions and staff training.



a hospital at its best
“our goal was for rush university medical center to rank among the top ten percent                                                        rush is a not-for-profit healthcare, educa­
of the nation’s hospitals.” formulated by ceo larry goodman, md, this ambitious                                                           tion and research enterprise headquartered
                                                                                                                                          in chicago, illinois. over 2,000 students are
aim was the basis for all planning. together with the project team, goodman set                                                           enrolled at rush university in preparation
out to make his university hospital in the heart of chicago one of the country’s                                                          for careers in the medical field. with around
most advanced facilities – a hospital that sets standards for medical care as well                                                        700 beds, rush university medical center
                                                                                                                                          is one of the biggest hospitals in chicago.
as for university research and education. the project called for modernizing older
                                                                                                                                          with areas of specialization including neuro­
sections of the complex, building a new hospital tower shaped around patients’                                                            science, orthopedics, oncology and cardiol­
needs and fully integrating the entire healthcare infrastructure, including an                                                            ogy, the hospital has received many awards
                                                                                                                                          in recent years. in particular, its outstanding
intelligent it system. the acquisition of new medical technologies – particularly
                                                                                                                                          nursing care and exceptional patient satis­
in the field of imaging – was also part of the plan, and rush formed a special                                                            faction have made rush one of the top-rated
team for that task.                                                                                                                       hospitals in the united states.

                                                                                                                                              www.rush.edu


a trustworthy partner
to achieve all this, the hospital team was looking for a partner who could not                                                            together with customers and partners, we’re
only deliver the technological solutions but also accompany the project with its                                                          working on improving healthcare throughout
                                                                                                                                          the world. we measure our progress in
expertise and competence. and they chose siemens. company employees advised                                                               three key areas. during fiscal 2014, we sus­
the hospital management and the project team throughout all key phases of the                                                             tained the positive trend of the previous
facility’s modernization. siemens was also involved in the construction phase,                                                            years, achieving or even exceeding the tar­
                                                                                                                                          gets we’d set for ourselves.
supplying building technology systems, for instance. in addition, the company
equipped the hospital with numerous imaging systems, provided staff training                                                                	www.siemens.com/
                                                                                                                                              healthcare-­i ndicators
and developed a solution for ongoing services. for example, the facility’s com-
puted tomography (ct) systems, which are vitally important for emergency care,
are constantly monitored. networked with the siemens guardian program, the
systems are watched online by siemens technicians around the clock. what’s the
advantage? potential system errors can be corrected proactively and maintenance
can be planned at an early stage. and an analysis of the captured data can also                                                              1        2
lead to suggestions for enhancing system-related processes – thus creating value
for the hospital.
                                                                                                                                             3        4
dr. goodman and peter butler still have lots of plans for rush. they intend to
continue developing the hospital on an ongoing basis: “our foremost concern is
                                                                                                                                          1 – peter butler, president and chief operating
the patients and their optimal care. that’s why we want to become even better                                                             officer, rush university medical center
and make rush a leading healthcare center.” and in pursuing this vision, they’ll                                                          2 – exterior view of the new hospital tower
continue to rely on siemens.
                                                                                                                                          3 – interior view of the entry pavilion
                                                                                                                                          with ­circular skylights
the statements described herein are based on results that were achieved in the customer’s unique setting. since there is no “­typical”
hospital and many variables exist (e.g., hospital size, case mix, level of it adoption), there can be no guarantee that other customers
                                                                                                                                          4 – larry goodman, md, chief executive
will achieve the same results.                                                                                                            officer, rush university medical center           83

     successful company management demands
     more than financial targets – it requires
     a comprehensive strategic framework that
     integrates the key fields of corporate govern-
     ance: a strategy that sets the course.




84

our strategy




  setting the course

86         our strategy




     strategy sets the course


     to leverage the diverse opportunities of our complex world,
     a company needs a clear direction, a strong internal setup,
     and people who follow the set course and turn plans and
     ideas into reality. and that’s exactly what our strategy does:
     it includes a sharper customer and business focus, streamlined
     governance and an integrated management model that
     defines the concrete targets and measures required to closely
     follow the course we’ve set.

                                          our strategy   87




 to leverage the diverse opportunities
of our complex world, a company
needs a strategy to point the way
  forward and set clear priorities.




             joe kaeser
                      president and ceo
                        of siemens ag

88             our strategy




     customer and business focus


     we’re focusing on our positioning along the value chain of electrification.
     this is where our core business lies. from power generation to power
     transmission, power distribution and smart grid to the efficient application
     of electrical energy – in every one of these interrelated fields, electrification,
     automation and digitalization are the key business drivers. our integrated
     setup not only enables us to leverage opportunities in individual markets;
     it also allows us to exploit the potential at their interfaces. a worldwide
     go­to­market setup and an organization geared toward shared customer
     markets are making this possible.


     power generation
     the field of efficient power generation – encompassing conventional
     and renewable energy sources as well as comprehensive services – is
     addressed by our power and gas division, wind power and renewables
     division and power generation services division.


     power transmission, power distribution
     and smart grid
     solutions and products for power transmission and distribution as
     well as technologies for smart grids are all bundled at our energy
     management division.


     energy application
     our building technologies division, mobility division, digital factory
     division and process industries and drives division are delivering
     technologies for the efficient application of energy in building technol­
     ogy, transportation and industry.


     imaging and in-vitro diagnostics
     siemens healthcare is responsible for our medical imaging and in­vitro
     diagnostics businesses.


     financial services
     in all areas related to project financing, financial services is a reliable
     partner to our customers.

                                                          our strategy                 89




                                                       expected
                                                       market growth


                                                                             7–9%
                            digitalization

                                automation                                   4–6%


                              electrification                                2–3%


  power         power transmission,
                                       energy       imaging
 generation     power distribution
                and smart grid        application   and in-vitro
                                                    diagnostics

– power and gas – energy      – building         – healthcare            – financial
– wind power       management   technologies                               services
  and renewables              – mobility
– power generation            – digital factory
  services
                              – process industries
                                and drives



               customer and business focus

90                     our strategy




             customer and business focus also includes setting clear priorities for
             resource allocation in the future. we’ll utilize the power of our employees,
             our technological expertise and our capital in a more targeted manner
             in the areas where they’ll create maximum value for siemens. positioning
             our company rigorously along the value chain of electrification and allocat­
             ing resources in a targeted manner will enable us to access the fields
             that promise to provide us with long­term profitable growth. on this double
             page, we present selected growth fields.



 flexible and small gas turbines
 in the area of power generation, the trend is increasingly toward decen-
 tralized energy supply. customers worldwide are relying more and more
 on individualized energy supplies and demanding tailor-made solutions.
 as a result, we see major growth potential in the field of flexible and small
 gas turbines – potential that we intend to rigorously exploit.



                                           offshore wind power
                                           among renewable sources of energy, wind power will play a key role over
                                           the long term. offshore wind turbines deliver high yields and are subject
                                           to less fluctuation than other renewables. we want to continue building
                                           on the leading position in offshore wind power that we’ve captured in
                                           recent years. we consider double-digit market growth realistic in this field
                                           in the medium term.



     distribution grid automation and software
     energy management is becoming increasingly vital – for distribution grids as well
     as industrial and private energy producers and consumers. energy management
     systems make it possible to integrate increasingly decentralized power supplies
     into the energy cycle, while mitigating the negative impact of the fluctuations
     that occur when power is generated from renewable sources – thus improving
     the utilization of existing power grids. our intelligent, integrated automation
     solutions offer customers decisive added value.



                             urban and interurban mobility
                             in greater demand than ever before, intelligent mobility solutions are
                             providing major impulses for growth – particularly in the areas of urban
                             transportation and automated traffic-control solutions. we see stronger
                             growth potential in this area as well.

                                                                                 our strategy                  91




digital-twin software
the virtual and real worlds are merging more and more. already today,
our software solutions are helping customers develop products much
faster, more flexibly and more efficiently. for example, they can now
perform endurance tests even before a single bolt is tightened in the real
world. not only products but also the plants in which they’re produced
have digital twins that can be used to coordinate and integrate product
design and production planning. the digital models are always up-to-
date – as planned, as built, as maintained – while allowing improvements
throughout entire lifecycles.




                              key sectors in process industries
                              some industry sectors – oil & gas and food & beverage, for example –
                              are growing at above-average rates. we want to participate in this
                              growth. that’s why we’re bundling our expertise in process industries
                              and drive technologies and continuing to expand our related portfolio
                              of products and software solutions.




      image-guided therapy and molecular diagnostics
      the increasing use of molecular biological methods and progress in
      the life sciences are accelerating technological change in healthcare.
      to improve quality and efficiency, societies worldwide are also demand-
      ing new solutions for next-generation healthcare. against this backdrop,
      fundamental changes are emerging – changes to which we’re optimally
      gearing our healthcare business.




                                    business analytics and data-driven services,
                                    software and it solutions
                                    we have a comprehensive understanding of our customers’ business
                                    processes. in the future, we want to leverage this knowledge even better
                                    by analyzing the data generated in these processes, providing recommen-
                                    dations for improvement and action, and thus creating value. the result-
                                    ing competitive advantages for our customers are increasingly derived
                                    from cloud-based solutions and services powered by data analytics
                                    software. a clear example is our cross-unit remote service, which we’re
                                    continuously expanding.

92            our strategy




     governance


     we want to lead siemens in such a way that we focus on our customers at
     all times and further expand our market penetration while maintaining lean
     and flexible structures. that’s why we’ve selected a market­integrative
     setup that combines a common regional organization with a coordinated
     vertical approach. against this backdrop, we’ve retailored the structures
     and responsibilities of our businesses, our regions and our corporate
     governance functions. concretely, this means:


     we’ve removed layers from our company, thus bringing our businesses closer to
     customers and key markets. we replaced our 14 regional clusters with 30 lead
     countries. these countries, which generate more than 85% of our business,
     now report directly to our managing board.

     we’ve also eliminated the sector level and consolidated our business activities
     into nine divisions and one separately managed unit, healthcare. this change,
     too, is increasing our customer proximity and accelerating our decision­making.

     in addition, we’ve made governance even more stringent across all levels of
     our organization. our managing board leads the company and maintains the
     balance between our businesses and regions. it’s supported by strong, efficient
     corporate governance functions, our corporate core. this corporate core
     ensures fast, unbureaucratic decision­making across key company functions.


     stringent governance also means making sure that our proven method­
     ologies for continuously improving performance are rigorously applied
     company­wide in our businesses and projects in the future. in this con­
     nection, we’re relying on our well­established top+ program. we’re also
     managing our compliance system and company­wide compliance organi­
     zation directly from company headquarters to ensure that our activities
     always fully comply with applicable laws and with our own internal principles
     and regulations.

                        our strategy   93




customers and markets




       regions

     businesses

   managing board




   governance

94            our strategy




     management model


     a strategy sets the course. in the end, however, it’s implementation and
     results that count. to enable us to manage our company more effectively,
     we’ve expanded one siemens into an integrated management model
     that combines under one roof the overarching targets and priorities with
     which we’re implementing our strategy throughout the company.


     financial framework
     to measure and compare our development vis­à­vis the market and in our
     competitive environment, we use a system of defined key indicators. we’ve
     now refined and expanded this financial target system.
       see page 96



     operating system and corporate memory
     we manage our company in accordance with specific, clearly defined prior­
     ities. and we do it rigorously. in addition, the corporate memory – our
     knowledge management – ensures that we learn from mistakes and keep
     our work focused on success.        see page 98



     sustainability and citizenship
     we contribute to sustainable development by maintaining a responsible
     balance at the company level between profit, planet and people.
       see page 102




     these factors are making a decisive contribution to our company’s success –
     managed jointly and holistically, not individually or in isolation. that’s how
     one siemens is helping us to reach our vision 2020 goals.

                                       our strategy   95




            one siemens
               management model

1. financial framework


2. operating system and corporate memory


3. sustainability and citizenship




           management model

96            our strategy




     1. financial framework


     we’ve set out to increase our company’s value on a sustainable basis.
     to measure our progress, we use a balanced system of defined financial
     performance indicators. we’ve further refined the range of the one
     siemens indicators we’ve reported to date:


     growth
     our aim is to outpace the average growth rate of our most relevant
     competitors.


     capital efficiency
     we’ve set ourselves an ambitious target corridor of 15% to 20% for
     sustainable return on capital employed.


     total cost productivity
     we want to continuously optimize our costs and achieve total cost
     productivity gains of 3% to 5% a year.


     capital structure
     we’ve set ourselves a goal for our capital structure that will enable us
     to maintain our very solid and efficient financial basis.


     dividend payout ratio
     we want to achieve an attractive payout ratio of 40% to 60% of net
     income.


     profit margin ranges of businesses
     at the level of our businesses, we’ve defined individual margin ranges
     based on the profitability of the most relevant competitors of each
     business.

                                               our strategy   97




          one siemens
             management model


1. financial framework
                  capital               capital
                  efficiency            structure
 growth
                 total cost            dividend
                productivity          payout ratio


      profit margin ranges of businesses




             one siemens
                               financial framework

98           our strategy




     2. operating system and corporate memory


     doing the right things right – that’s what a strategy’s implementation
     depends on. to manage a company effectively, efficiently and thus
     successfully, you’ve got to set clear priorities, have the right tools and
     base your work on clear goals and rules. our one siemens operating
     system delivers these prerequisites and sets the priorities for:


     customer proximity
     innovation
     business excellence
     people excellence and care

     we’re bundling all the insights that help us improve our business
     operations into a new type of knowledge management. this corporate
     memory isn’t limited to databases and methodologies. it’s also an­
     chored in our organization. why? because it’s the only way we can draw
     the right conclusions – from highly successful projects as well as from
     earlier failures.

                                                   our strategy   99




              one siemens
                 management model

2. operating system and corporate memory


                           business             people
customer     innovation                        excellence
proximity                  excellence          and care




               one siemens
                          operating system and corporate memory

100                  our strategy




           to implement its strategy and ensure its continued development, a company
           needs an operating system that defines principles for the excellent manage­
           ment of its businesses and determines appropriate action areas. our operating
           system, one siemens, sets the following four priorities:




  customer proximity
  profitable growth is based on proximity to our customers and on an
  understanding of their individual requirements. to meet and exceed
  our customers’ expectations, we invest in local sales presence and
  support for specific groups of market partners. our key account
  management approach is just one successful example of this. we’re
  represented in virtually every country in the world by regional
  companies that operate as local partners to our customers. we also
  exploit our in-depth knowledge of customer processes and continually
  develop our offerings for key verticals in a targeted manner – across
  organizational boundaries. to regularly gauge the satisfaction
  of our customers around the world, we use a uniform measure, the
  net promoter score (nps).




                                       innovation
                                       innovation is essential for ensuring long-term competitiveness. this
                                       applies to our entire portfolio of products, solutions and services.
                                       added value for our customers is based increasingly on software and
                                       it solutions. as a result, we’ve made this field a particular focus of our
                                       attention – for example, through research and development activities
                                       in software architecture and platforms. tools such as partner networks
                                       are enabling us to manage highly effective innovation processes and
                                       an open innovation culture. we’re concentrating on new technology-
                                       driven growth areas as well as innovative business models.

                                                                        our strategy                   101




business excellence
we want to do an excellent job of managing our businesses while
pursuing our aim of continuous improvement. for this, we’ve developed
outstanding tools as part of our company-wide top+ movement – tools
that we will apply with even greater rigor in the future. these tools
enable us, for instance, to benchmark our performance against the best
and to increase our productivity. tightening our risk management
approach is helping us identify project risks while still in the bidding
phase and thus avoid costly project delays. last but not least, we’re
fostering our service business across organizational boundaries, for
example, by developing service platforms.




                            people excellence and care
                            excellent employees are the heart and soul of siemens. that’s how
                            it’s always been. and we want it to be even more so in the future.
                            therefore, we’re anchoring an ownership culture at our company. for
                            us, this is not an abstract idea but a concrete goal that we’re pursuing
                            with measures we can track. after all, the behavior, motivation and
                            values of the people who work for siemens mold our culture. in an
                            attractive working environment, we promote lifelong learning and
                            personal development. integ rity – supported by a well-established
                            compliance system – remains the principle that guides our conduct.
                            our share programs are enabling us to increase employee participation
                            in our company’s success while bringing us closer every day to a lived
                            ownership culture.

102            our strategy




      3. sustainability and citizenship


      together with our customers and partners, we want to shape the future by
      making real what matters and addressing the global issues and trends
      that are truly crucial. driven by our passion for engineering excellence,
      we’re committed to the values of our company’s founder. guiding us
      for over 165 years, his maxim – “i won’t sell the future of my company
      for a short­term profit” – demands that we maintain a healthy balance
      between profit, planet and people.


      profit – by offering a range of products, solutions and services that makes
      a difference worldwide, because it provides our customers with decisive
      competitive advantages and strengthens our profitability over the long term.


      planet – by utilizing our planet’s limited resources responsibly and by
      enabling our customers to improve their own environmental performance.


      people – by living a culture that strengthens our employees’ sense of
      responsibility worldwide, fosters their development and places integrity at the
      center of our company’s activities. as good corporate citizens, we’re also
      contributing to the sustainable development of society through our portfolio,
      our local presence worldwide and our role as a thought leader.


      what we create is yours. for the benefit of our customers and for the
      societies in which we live and work. yesterday, today and in the future.
      that’s what ensures our long­term entrepreneurial success. that’s what
      we understand by sustainability. and that’s what we mean when we
      say, “we make real what matters.”

                                                  our strategy   103




            one siemens
                management model

                                        planet
3. sustainability
and citizenship



                profit                             people




                    one siemens
                            sustainability and citizenship

company report
2014

financial report
2014

           key figures fiscal 2014 1




           volume
                                                                                                                                              % change                            further
                                                                                                      fy 2014          fy 2013     actual   comparable 2                     information
      continuing operations
      orders                                                                in millions of €          78,350          79,755        (2)%             1%                      page 193
      revenue                                                               in millions of €          71,920          73,445        (2)%             1%                      page 193




           profitability and capital efficiency
                                                                                                                                                                                  further
                                                                                                      fy 2014          fy 2013                % change                       information
      total sectors
      adjusted ebitda                                                       in millions of €           9,103            8,131                      12%                       page 202
      total sectors profit                                                  in millions of €           7,335            5,842                      26%                       page 202
        in % of revenue (total sectors)                                                  in %            10.0              7.9
      continuing operations
      adjusted ebitda                                                       in millions of €           9,139            8,097                      13%                       page 202
      income from continuing operations                                     in millions of €           5,400            4,179                      29%                       page 201
      basic earnings per share 3                                                          in €           6.24            4.81                      30%                       page 309
      return on capital employed (roce)                                                  in %            17.2            13.7                                                page 188
      continuing and discontinued operations
      net income                                                            in millions of €           5,507            4,409                      25%                       page 201
      basic earnings per share 3                                                          in €           6.37            5.08                      25%                       page 202
      return on capital employed (roce)                                                  in %            17.3            13.5                                                page 188




           capital structure and liquidity
                                                                                                                                                                                  further
                                                                                                         september 30, 2014          september 30, 2013                      information
      cash and cash equivalents                                             in millions of €                            8,013                    9,190                       page 210
      total equity (shareholders of siemens ag)                             in millions of €                          30,954                    28,111                       page 212
      industrial net debt                                                   in millions of €                            1,390                    2,805                       page 189
      industrial net debt /
      adjusted ebitda (continuing operations)                                                                            0.15                      0.35                      page 189

                                                                                                                                                                                  further
                                                                                                                      fy 2014                    fy 2013                     information
      continuing operations
      free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,399                    5,378                       page 207
      continuing and discontinued operations
      free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,201                    5,328                       page 207




           1 october 1, 2013 – september 30, 2014.                   3 basic earnings per share – attributable to shareholders   amounted to 843,449 and 843,819 shares,
                                                                         of siemens ag. for fiscal 2014 and 2013 weighted          respectively.
           2 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.
                                                                         average shares outstanding (basic) (in thousands)




106

      customers and innovation
                                                                                                                                                                        further
                                                                                                                              fy 2014       fy 2013                information
revenue generated by the environmental portfolio 1                                                     in billions of €          33.0         31.9                      page 221
  in % of revenue from continuing operations                                                                      in %             46            43
research and development expenses 1                                                                    in billions of €           4.1           4.0                     page 219
­  in % of revenue from continuing operations                                                                     in %            5.7           5.5
research and development employees 1, 2                                                                  in thousands            28.8         28.1                      page 219
inventions 1, 3                                                                                          in thousands             8.6           8.3                     page 219
patent first filings 1, 4                                                                                in thousands             4.3           4.0                     page 219




      environment
                                                                                                                                                                        further
                                                                                                                              fy 2014       fy 2013                information
accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions                                       in millions of
generated by elements from the environmental portfolio 1                                                   metric tons           428           369                      page 221
energy efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1                                               in %             11                5                  page 222
waste efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1                                                in %             12                8                  page 222
waste for disposal reduction compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1                                                in %               8           10                     page 222
carbon dioxide emission efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1                              in %             20            14                     page 222




      employees
                                                                                                                             sep. 30,      sep. 30,                     further
                                                                                                                                2014          2013                 information
total employees – continuing operations                                                                  in thousands            343           348                      page 216
  europe, c.i.s., 5 africa, middle east                                                                  in thousands            211           215                      page 173
  therein germany                                                                                        in thousands            115           117
  asia, australia                                                                                        in thousands              62            61                     page 173
  americas                                                                                               in thousands              70            72                     page 173
total employees – continuing and discontinued operations­                                                in thousands            357           367

                                                                                                                                                                        further
                                                                                                                              fy 2014       fy 2013                information
employee turnover rate 6, 7                                                                                       in %            9.1         10.8                      page 216
female employees in management positions (percentage of all management positions) 6, 8                            in %           15.6         15.6                      page 216
expenses for continuing education 6, 9                                                                 in millions of €          276           265                      page 216
expenses per employee for continuing education 6, 9                                                               in €           769           670                      page 216




      1 continuing operations.                          5   commonwealth of independent states.                    8 employees in management positions include
                                                                                                                       all managers with disciplinary responsibility,
      2   average number of employees in fiscal year.    6   continuing and discontinued operations.
                                                                                                                       plus project managers.
      3 number of inventions reported by the business   7 employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of
                                                                                                                    9     without travel expenses.
         units in an internal report.                       voluntary and involuntary exits from siemens during
                                                            the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
      4 first filings as part of inventions submitted
         to patent offices.                                                                                                                                                    107

           a.1  letter to our shareholders




      berlin and munich, december 3, 2014




      in fiscal 2014, we worked hard, we were highly focused, and we achieved a great
      deal. despite a complex geopolitical situation, our overall results for the year were
      very good. we increased profit by 25 %, tackled a great many issues and improved
      our operations, even though in some areas we could have been even more success­
      ful. above all, we gave our company a new setup based on our vision 2020 and
      defined the direction we’ll be taking in the years ahead.

      we’re proud of what we’ve achieved so far, particularly because the circumstances
      have been anything but favorable: global economic development was very uneven
      in fiscal 2014, and with more than 40 critical hotspots around the world, political
      uncertainties were greater than they ’d been in decades. that’s why we were right
      when we decided not to pin our hopes on a global economic recovery but to exploit
      our own strengths.

      for fiscal 2014, we reported net income of € 5.5 billion, with revenue totaling
      € 71.9 billion and orders € 78.4 billion. we thus reached the targets we’d originally
      set for the year and exceeded our goal for profit development while making sub­
      stantial progress in strengthening our portfolio. these achievements will enable us
      to propose a dividend of € 3.30 to the annual shareholders’ meeting. siemens is
      and will remain a good investment. we stand for a long-term, reliable and attractive
      dividend policy and will remain a company with a rock-solid financial basis.

      nevertheless, our performance could have been even better. the high charges
      on which we again focused considerable attention in fiscal 2014 are not what
      siemens stands for. we’re working hard to improve our risk management, and
      we expect to see successes already in fiscal 2015.

      fiscal 2014 was a year of upheaval for our company. our company-wide vision 2020
      concept is paving the way to the future. vision 2020 defines a clear strategic direc­
      tion for the “new siemens.” we’re positioning our company in strategically attractive
      growth fields and demonstrating a clear focus as we gear our setup to these fields.




108

joe kaeser
           president and
         ceo of siemens ag

      i’d like to extend my thanks to all 343,000 siemens employees – and particularly
      to our many people in the world’s crisis regions – for their continuing dedication.
      throughout fiscal 2014, the managing board team received tremendous employee
      support for the changes now necessary at our company. cooperation with the
      employee representatives was also characterized by a spirit of mutual trust. in addi­
      tion, dr. gerhard cromme and the members of the supervisory board diligently
      assisted the work of the managing board, providing outstanding support for all our
      activities and projects. i’m very grateful for the commitment of all these individu­
      als. i’d also like to extend a special thanks to our customers, who gave us their trust
      and confidence in fiscal 2014. we’ll remain an expert and reliable partner for them
      in the future.

      vision 2020 – our company-wide concept
      vision 2020 is our concept for the future and, above all, for achieving sustainable
      growth. we proceeded calmly and carefully in drafting vision 2020, taking all the
      time we needed, and then implemented the concept in record time.

      in keeping with vision 2020, we’re positioning siemens along the electrification
      value chain. electrification, automation and digitalization, and the impact of these
      fields on all parts of our company: that’s what the new siemens is all about. our
      new setup will help us close the gap to our competitors. we have some catching up
      to do – in terms of growth as well as margin development. our goal must be to
      close that gap. and we’ll succeed, although not overnight. one thing, however, is
      clear: vision 2020 has already made us stronger and brought us closer to our mar­
      kets. we’ll also be investing more in innovation and market access than in the past ‒
      with the aim of creating sustainable value for our employees, our customers and
      for you, our shareholders.

      for years now, we’ve been focusing on the megatrends of urbanization, demo­
      graphic change, globalization and climate change. and now a further megatrend
      has emerged: digitalization, which consists in capturing and analyzing data and
      then using it to create customer value. we want to play a key role in shaping this
      digital transformation. businesses related to software and data analytics are
      ­achieving dynamic annual growth of 7 % to 9 % and, in some fields of digitalization,
       even more. highly attractive markets await us here, and we’re positioning our
       company accordingly.

      our stages on the path to 2020
      our company-wide reorganization will be implemented in three phases. while the
      measures included in these phases will be reflected in our key financial figures at
      various times, we’re continually addressing all of them with the same intensity and
      the same rigor:

      >> for the short term, we’re improving our performance and efficiency.
      >> for the medium term, we’re strengthening our core business.
      >> for the long term, we’re driving sustainable growth.

      let me start with the most important thing: our company ’s long-term, sustainable
      development. already today, siemens is a leader in electrification and automation –
      just think of our urban mobility systems, our solutions for the process industry and
      our power plants as well as our outstanding position in power plant instrumentation




110

and control technology, power grids, and factory and rail automation. we aim
to achieve an equally strong position in the field of digitalization, in which we’re
already a key player: our worldwide installed customer base gives us not only
access to an enormous volume of data but also an in-depth understanding of the
related processes. and our customers appreciate these advantages.

a company like siemens never stands still. this was the case in the past, and it will
remain so in the future. that’s why we intend to continue developing our port­
folio with determination and the utmost prudence in order to strengthen our core
business in the medium term. we’ve taken the first steps with our acquisition
of rolls-royce’s aero-derivative gas turbine business and our decision to acquire
u.s. compressor and turbine manufacturer dresser-rand. these two acquisitions
will close important gaps in our electrification portfolio for the oil and gas industry
as well as for decentralized power generation.

the announcement that we’re divesting our stake in bsh bosch und siemens
­hausgeräte (bsh) was a further signal that we’re intent on implementing our
 vision 2020. the siemens brand will continue to be used for household appliances,
 so siemens will still be found “in the kitchen and in the laundry room.” however,
 bsh will now be managed exclusively by bosch.

we can accept the fact that we didn’t win the bid for the french company alstom,
although, objectively speaking, our offer was the better one. in this connection,
one thing is particularly important to me: we proved that siemens is capable of
taking action in any situation. what’s more, we had an impact on the transaction
that was not negligible for our competitors.

new setup at all levels and in all business fields
our focus on what is essential is also reflected in our company’s organization.
we’ve eliminated the clusters and sectors and reduced the number of divisions
from 16 to ten. in addition, we’ve substantially strengthened our international
organization.

we’re blazing new trails with our new setup. for instance, thanks to our digital
factory division, we’re the world’s first company to bundle all the requirements for
the factory of the future under one roof. the division will be our driving force
for industry 4.0, the much-discussed fourth industrial revolution in which every
aspect of production – from idea, development and manufacturing to services
and recycling – will be totally integrated. at siemens, we’re not just talking about
industry 4.0; we’re implementing it.

in view of the growing strategic importance of the u.s. energy markets, we’ve
­relocated the management of our energy business as well as the responsibility for
 supporting our marketing activities throughout the americas to houston, texas.

to head our energy business, we’ve brought in lisa davis, who joined the managing
board of siemens ag on august 1, 2014, and has since been making valuable
­contributions to its work. for our customers and for our company, the energy
 landscape has changed dramatically, not least because of political factors such as
 germany’s “energy transition.” we’re responding to these shifts.




                                                                                          111

      our healthcare business achieved very good results overall in the past quarters, an
      accomplishment we’re proud of. however, over the long term, we anticipate fun­
      damental changes and new business models in healthcare markets and technologies.

      with the aim of continuing the success story of siemens’ medical engineering
      activities and of giving them greater freedom and better prospects for the future,
      we’ll manage our healthcare business independently within siemens – as a
      ­company within the company. healthcare is not “still” at siemens or “staying” at
       siemens. healthcare is part of siemens.

      we’ve paved the way for the sale of our audiology business to the investment
      ­company eqt and germany’s strüngmann family of entrepreneurs. siemens will
       remain invested in the hearing aid business with preferred equity and will thus
       benefit from the business’s future successes. not only is the transaction an excellent
       move from a financial perspective; we’re also convinced that the new investors
       have a clear growth strategy for further developing the hearing aid business over
       the long term.

      this step is fully in line with our strategy of strengthening our core business and
      of divesting activities that yield few or no synergies for the company.

      looking at my description of our vision 2020 targets, you’ll have noticed that we’ve
      set very ambitious goals. in pursuing these goals, we won’t be able to please
      ­everyone, because the pace in international competition is far too fast. that’s why
       we have to set priorities. but our actions will be well-focused, level-headed and
       responsible – as can be expected of siemens.

      culture makes the difference
      however, strategy isn’t the only thing that counts here – since a strategy can
      be implemented only if it’s based on a strong company culture. at siemens, this
      means an ownership culture. i asked our employees and managers how they’d
      describe ownership culture in one word. “responsibility” was far and away the
      most common answer. and that’s precisely the point: we must always bear in mind
      that we have a responsibility to pass on a better company to the next generation.

      our foremost maxim must be: always act as if it were your own company! i’m
      ­convinced that an ownership culture is not only a formula for success at strong,
       ­family-run enterprises but that it will also be the foundation for our success. it’s
        this culture that will shape siemens.




112

already today, 140,000 siemens employees hold shares in our company. i want to
increase this figure substantially. our aim is to have more than 200,000 employee
shareholders by 2020. and i’m convinced we can do it.

with greater employee participation, we’ll also ensure that siemens remains an
excellent company in the future. a company that

>> more than any other, stands for innovation in the electrification of the world
>> is a strong, global brand renowned for hard work, financial solidity, top quality,
   engineering excellence and a talent for innovation
>> assumes responsibility and makes a difference.

in 2014, we defined our strategic direction and aligned our organization accordingly.
in 2015, we’ll consolidate our operations. we’re increasing expenditures for research
and development and for our go-to-market activities in selected areas and regions.
operational improvements will already be visible in 2016. starting in early 2017, all
our efforts will bear fruit in the form of faster growth and enhanced cost efficiency.

vision 2020 sets the strategic course for siemens. the direction is clear, team spirit
is flourishing, and we have every reason to look to the future with confidence.
ever since werner von siemens founded his company in a rear building in berlin in
1847, siemens has stood for pioneering spirit. we continuously foster long-term
success – day by day, quarter by quarter, year by year. rigorously and responsibly.

after a year at the helm of this great company, i assure you that i still feel person­
ally responsible for passing on to the next generation an enterprise that’s even
better and stronger than today ’s. “we make real what matters.” that’s my mission
for siemens. that’s my responsibility. that’s my promise.

for the managing board




joe kaeser
president and chief executive officer




                                                                                         113

                  a.2  managing board of siemens ag




           ralf p. thomas                           roland busch                           joe kaeser                           klaus helmrich
           controlling and finance,                 asia, australia                        president and                        europe, africa
           financial services,                                                             chief executive officer
                                                    energy management,                                                          digital factory,
           global services                          ­building technologies,                corporate development,               process ­industries
                                                     ­mobility                             governance & markets,                and drives
                                                                                           ­communications
                                                                                            and ­government affairs,
                                                                                            legal and compliance




      from left
      to right

                            siegfried russwurm                                hermann requardt                   lisa davis
                            labor director                                    healthcare                         americas
                            commonwealth of independent states,                                                  power and gas,
                            middle east                                                                          wind power and renewables,
                            human resources,                                                                     power generation services
                            corporate technology




114

115

            contents: financial report




       a.
       to our shareholders
                                                b.
                                                corporate
                                                                                          c.
                                                                                           combined
                                                ­governance                                m
                                                                                           ­ anagement report




      108    a.1 letter to our shareholders    132   b.1 corporate                        172    c.1 business and
                                                         governance report                           ­economic environment
      114    a.2 managing board of
                 siemens ag                    136   b.2 corporate governance             187    c.2 financial performance
                                                         statement pursuant                          system
      118    a.3 report of the                           to section 289a of the
                 ­supervisory board                      ­german commercial code          193    c.3 results of operations
                                                          (part of the combined
                                                          management report)              205    c.4 financial position
      126    a.4 the siemens
                 share / ­investor relations
                                               138   b.3 compliance report                210    c.5 net assets position
                                                         (part of the combined
                                                         management report)
                                                                                          213    c.6 overall assessment
                                                                                                     of the economic position
                                               144   b.4 compensation report
                                                         (part of the combined
                                                                                          214    c.7 subsequent events
                                                         ­management report)

                                                                                          215    c.8 sustainability
                                               165   b.5 takeover-relevant
                                                                                                     and citizenship
                                                           ­information (pursuant to
                                                            ­sections 289 para. 4 and
                                                                                ­ erman
                                                             315 para. 4 of the g         225    c.9 report on expected
                                                             commercial code) and                     ­developments and
                                                             explanatory report                      ­associated material
                                                             (part of the combined                     opportunities and risks
                                                             management report)
                                                                                          242   c.10 compensation report
                                                                                                     and legal disclosures

                                                                                          242   c.11 siemens ag
                                                                                                     (discussion on basis of
                                                                                                     german ­commercial code)




116

 d.
 consolidated
                                     e.
                                     additional
 ­ inancial statements
 f                                   ­information




                                                                                                          contents: financial report
248   d.1 consolidated statements   338   e.1 responsibility statement   key to references
          of income
                                                                           	reference within
                                    339   e.2 independent                     the publication
249   d.2 consolidated statements             ­auditorʼs report
                                                                         	reference to an
          of comprehensive income                                          ­e xternal publication
                                    341   e.3 statement of the
                                                                           	reference to the
250   d.3 consolidated statements             ­managing board                ­i nternet
          of financial position
                                    342   e.4 company structure
251   d.4 consolidated statements
          of cash flows             344   e.5 five-year summary

252   d.5 consolidated statements   345   e.6 notes and forward-­
          of changes in equity                looking statements

254   d.6 notes to consolidated     346   e.7 further information and
          financial statements                information resources

330   d.7 supervisory board and     347   e.8 financial calendar
          managing board




                                                                                                    117

           a.3  report of the supervisory board




      berlin and munich, december 3, 2014




      in fiscal 2014, the managing board cooperated with the supervisory board closely
      and regularly in the development of vision 2020, which defines siemens’ long-term
      perspective along the electrification value chain, with our strengths in automation
      and digitalization. the goal is to enhance siemens’ performance in the short term,
      strengthen its core business in the medium term and return to profitable growth.

      in fiscal 2014, the supervisory board performed with great diligence the duties
      assigned to it by law, the siemens articles of association and the bylaws for the
      supervisory board. we regularly advised the managing board on the management
      of the company and monitored the managing board’s activities. we were directly
      involved at an early stage in all major decisions regarding the company. in written
      and oral reports, the managing board regularly provided us with timely and com­
      prehensive information on company planning and business operations as well as
      on the strategic development and current state of the company. on the basis of
      reports submitted by the managing board, we considered in detail business devel­
      opment and all decisions and transactions of major significance to the company.
      deviations from business plans were explained to us in detail and intensively
      ­discussed. the managing board coordinated the company’s strategic orientation
       with us. the proposals made by the managing board were approved by the super­
       visory board and / or the relevant supervisory board committees after in-depth
       examination and consultation. in my capacity as chairman of the supervisory
       board, i was also in regular contact with the managing board and, in particular,
       with the president and ceo and was kept up-to-date on current developments
       in the company’s business situation and on key business transactions. in addition,
       i engaged in separate discussions with members of the managing board regard­
       ing the prospects for and the future orientation of individual siemens businesses.

      topics at the plenary meetings of the supervisory board
      we held a total of six regular meetings and three extraordinary meetings in fiscal
      2014. i­ n addition, we made one decision outside meetings. attendance at supervisory
      ­board meetings by members was around 91 %.

      regular topics of discussion at our plenary meetings were revenue, profit and
      employ­ment development at siemens ag, at the company ’s operating units
      and at the siemens group as well as the company’s financial situation, profitability
      and major investment and divestment projects.




118

dr. gerhard cromme
                  chairman of the
                 supervisory board

      at our meeting on november 6, 2013, we discussed the company ’s key financial
      figures for fiscal 2013 and approved the budget for 2014. in addition, we adjusted
      the composition of the supervisory board committees and the assignment of
      responsibilities in the managing board. on the basis of reported target achievement,
      ­we also defined the compensation of the managing board members for fiscal 2013.
       the appropriateness of this compensation was confirmed by an internal review. on
       the recommendation of the compensation committee, we amended the managing
       board contracts in order to bring them into line with the new recommendations
       of the german corporate governance code – in particular, with the code’s recom­
       mendation ­that compensation amounts be capped. at this meeting, the amount
       of managing ­board compensation was also reviewed and adjusted. on january 28,
       2014, the annual shareholders’ meeting approved by a majority of over 93 %
       the remuneration system for the managing board members for fiscal 2014. at our
       meeting on november 6, 2013, we also approved the sale of major businesses at
       the water technologies business unit and our share buyback program. the manag­
       ing board reported to us on the current status of acquisitions and divestments
       and on sustainability at siemens.

      at our meeting on november 27, 2013, we discussed the financial statements and
      the combined management report for siemens ag and the siemens group as of
      september 30, 2013, as well as the agenda for the annual shareholders’ meeting on
      january 28, 2014, and the annual report for 2013, including the report of the super­
      visory board and the corporate governance report. at this meeting, we approved
      the termination by mutual consent of peter y. solmssen’s appointment as a full
      member of the managing board, effective december 31, 2013, as well as the termina­
      tion agreement regarding his managing board employment contract. responsibility
          ­ egal & compliance was transferred to joe kaeser. on the recommendation of
      for l
      the compensation committee, we approved the targets for managing board com­
      pensation ­for fiscal 2014. the infrastructure & cities sector provided us with a
      status report on its current business situation. the managing board also reported
      to us on operational excellence at siemens.

      at our meeting on january 27, 2014, the managing board reported to us on the com­
      pany’s business and financial position following the conclusion of the first quarter.
      we also discussed the annual shareholders’ meeting to be held on january 28, 2014.

      at extraordinary meetings on april 29, 2014, and june 15, 2014, we dealt with the
      submission of a bid to alstom. even though our offer was not accepted, it demon­
      strated the managing board’s and supervisory board’s capacity to act and showed
      that our company can respond quickly and decisively to changes in its competitive
      environment.

      at our meeting on may 6, 2014, we discussed vision 2020 and the related reorien­
      tation of the company’s organization structure. in this connection, we approved
      a reassignment of responsibilities in the managing board. we approved the
      termination by mutual consent of dr. michael süß’s appointment as a member of
      the managing board as well as the termination agreement regarding his managing




120

board employment contract. lisa davis was appointed a full member of the managing
­board, effective august 1, 2014. we also approved the exchange of managing board
 responsibilities between klaus helmrich and prof. dr. siegfried russwurm, effective
 october 1, 2014 – in particular, the transfer of the function of labor director. in
 ­addi­tion, we discussed the company ’s business and financial position following
  the conclusion of the second quarter. at this meeting, we approved the acquisition
  of rolls-royce’s aero-derivative gas turbine and compressor business and the
  ­contribution of key parts of our metals technologies business unit to a joint venture
   ­with the japanese company mitsubishi-hitachi metals machinery, inc.

at our meeting on july 30, 2014, the managing board reported on the company’s
business and financial position following the conclusion of the third quarter as well
as on the status of the implementation of vision 2020. on the recommendation of
the supervisory board’s compliance committee, we approved the settlement agree­
ment with former managing board member heinz-joachim neubürger and decided
to submit the agreement to the annual shareholders’ meeting for approval. we also
dealt with the planned sale of our health services business unit to cerner corpora­
     ­ f the u.s. following the conclusion of negotiations with cerner, we approved
tion o
the transaction on august 6, 2014. jim hagemann snabe did not take part in these
discussions and, as a precaution, abstained from voting on the proposal in order to
preclude any appearance of a conflict of interest.

the supervisory board has reviewed the efficiency of its activities with the help of
an external consultant. the results of this review were presented and discussed at
our meeting on july 30, 2014. the review confirmed that the members of the super­
visory board were independent and highly competent. the wish was expressed that
this situation continue to be ensured in the future. cooperation within the super­
visory board was assessed as open and constructive. the innovation and finance
committee had been previously repositioned to better meet the company ’s future
technological challenges. this committee will, among other things, consider
­strategically important technological issues in order to further strengthen tech­no­l­
ogy and innovation. as suggested by the efficiency review, reporting to the full
 ­super­visory board on technology, innovation and risk management will also be
  intensified.

at our extraordinary meeting on september 21, 2014, we approved the managing
board’s decisions to acquire the dresser-rand group, which is listed on the
new york stock exchange, and to sell our 50 % stake in bsh bosch und siemens
hausgeräte gmbh (bsh) to co-owner robert bosch gmbh.

at our meeting on september 24, 2014, the managing board reported to us on the
state of the company shortly before the end of fiscal 2014. on the recommendation
of the compensation committee, we adjusted and simplified the managing board
remuneration system, effective the beginning of fiscal 2015. we also reviewed and
adjusted the amount of managing board compensation. a detailed explanation
of the new remuneration system is available in chapter b.4 compensation report              b.4
                                                                                             see pages
on pages 161 - 162 of this annual report.                                                    161 - 162




                                                                                                         121

                    corporate governance code
                     we’ve discussed the implementation of the german corporate governance code.
                     at our meeting on may 6, 2014, we approved an interim update to our declaration
                     of conformity with the code, in which a temporary deviation from one of the
                     code’s recommendations was explained. this deviation resulted from the fact
                     that – contrary to section 5.4.5, para. 1, sentence 2 of the german corporate gover­
                     nance code – jim hagemann snabe, in his capacity as a member of sap’s executive
                     board, briefly held supervisory board positions in four external, publicly listed
                     companies. jim hagemann snabe resigned his position on sap’s executive board,
                     effective may 21, 2014. at our meeting on september 24, 2014, we decided to issue
                     an unqualified declaration of conformity in accordance with section 161 of the
                     german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz), whereby the company complies –
                     and will continue to comply – with the recommendations of the german corporate
                     governance code. information on corporate governance at siemens is available in
       b.1          ­chapter b.1 corporate governance report on pages 132 - 136 of this annual report.
        see pages
        132 - 136
                    ­our declarations of conformity have been made permanently available to our
                     shareholders on our website. the current declaration of conformity is available in
       b.2          chapter b.2 corporate governance statement pursuant to section 289a of the german
        see page
                      commercial code on page 136 of this annual report.
        136


                    work in the supervisory board committees
                    to ensure the efficiency of its work, the supervisory board has established seven
                    standing committees, which prepare proposals and issues to be dealt with at the
                    board’s plenary meetings. the supervisory board’s decision-making powers have
                    also been delegated to these committees within the permissible legal framework.
                    the committee chairpersons report to the supervisory board on their committees’
                    work at the subsequent board meetings. the members of the individual super­
                    visory board committees, the number of committee meetings and the number of
       
       d .7         committee decisions are set out in chapter d.7 supervisory board and managing
       see pages
                    board on pages 330 - 333 of this annual report.
       330 - 333


                    the chairman’s committee met seven times in fiscal 2014. it also made one deci­
                    sion ­by written circulation. between meetings, i discussed topics of major impor­
                    tance with the members of the chairman’s committee. the committee concerned
                    itself, in particular, with personnel topics and corporate governance issues – for
                    example, the preparation of the efficiency review – as well as with the assumption by
                    managing ­board members of positions at other companies and institutions.

                    the nominating committee met once in fiscal 2014 and made one decision by
                    ­written ­circulation. the members of the committee concerned themselves with
                     longer-­term succession planning for the supervisory board also outside committee
                     meetings. in addition, the nominating committee prepared recommendations
                     regarding the candidates to be proposed to the supervisory board for a by-election
                     of shareholder representatives at the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 27,
                     2015, and was supported in this process by an external personnel consultant.
                     in searching for and evaluating succession candidates, the nominating committee
                     took into account ­the requirements of the german stock corporation act,
                     the ­german ­corporate governance code and the bylaws for the supervisory board




122

as well as the goals that the supervisory board had set for its own composition,
giving ­particular consideration to the goal of increasing the number of women on
the super­visory board if possible and ensuring broad industry and technology
expertise as emphasized by the supervisory board in its efficiency review.

the compliance committee met five times in fiscal 2014. it discussed the quarterly
­reports and the annual report submitted by the chief compliance officer.
 ­the committee also concerned itself with a review of the circumstances relating to
  a pay increase that had been granted to the former chairman of the central works
  council, lothar adler, at the beginning of 2009. as a precaution, mr. adler did
  not participate in the discussions of this matter in order to preclude any appearance
  ­of a conflict of interest. the compliance committee recommended that the
   ­supervisory board approve the settlement agreement with former managing board
    ­member heinz-joachim neubürger and present the agreement to the annual
     share­holders’ meeting for its approval.

the mediation committee was not required to meet in fiscal 2014.

the compensation committee met six times in fiscal 2014. the committee prepared
­proposals for the supervisory board regarding the implementation of the new
 recommendations of the german corporate governance code as well as the simpli­
 fication of the managing board remuneration system as of fiscal 2015. in addition,
 the compensation committee prepared, in particular, proposals for the full super­
 visory board regarding the determination of targets for variable compensation, the
 determination and review of the appropriateness of managing board compensation
 and the approval of the compensation report.

the innovation and finance committee (formerly the finance and investment
com­mittee) met four times and made one decision by written circulation. the
focuses of its meetings included the committee’s recommendation regarding the
budget for fiscal 2014 as well as the preparation and / or approval of investment and
divestment projects. in addition, the committee intensively addressed the company’s
­innovation focuses.

the audit committee met six times in fiscal 2014. in the presence of the indepen­
dent ­auditors as well as the president and chief executive officer and the chief
financial officer, the committee discussed the financial statements and the com­
bined ­management report for siemens ag and the siemens group. in addition,
the audit committee addressed the half-year and quarterly financial reports and,
in the presence of the independent auditors, discussed their audit reviews. the
committee recommended that the supervisory board propose to the annual share­
holders’ meeting the election of ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
­as the independent auditors. the committee appointed the independent auditors
 for fiscal 2014, defined the audit focal points and determined the auditors’ fee.
 the committee monitored the independence and qualifications of the independent
 auditors. furthermore, the audit committee dealt with the company’s financial
 ­r eporting and risk management systems and with the effectiveness, resources
  and findings of the internal audit as well as with reports concerning potential
  and pending legal disputes.




                                                                                          123

      detailed discussion of the financial statements
      ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft audited the annual financial
      ­statements of siemens ag, the consolidated financial statements of the siemens
       group and the combined management report for siemens ag and the siemens
       group for fiscal 2014 and issued an unqualified opinion. the annual financial
       statements of siemens ag and the combined management report for siemens ag
       and the siemens group were prepared in accordance with the requirements of
       ­german law. the consolidated financial statements of the siemens group were
        prepared in accordance with the international financial reporting standards (ifrs)
        as adopted by the european union (eu) and with the additional requirements ­of
        ­german law set out in section 315a (1) of the german commercial code (handels­
         gesetzbuch). the financial statements also comply with the ifrs as issued by the
         inter­national accounting standards board (iasb). the independent auditors con­
      ducted their audit in accordance with section 317 of the german commercial code
      and in compliance with the generally accepted german standards for the audit of
         financial statements promulgated by the institut der wirtschaftsprüfer (idw) and
         with the international standards on auditing (isa). the above-mentioned docu­
         ments as well as the managing board’s proposal for the appropriation of net income
         ­were submitted to us by the managing board in a timely manner. the audit com­
      mittee discussed the dividend proposal in detail at its meeting on november 4,
          2014. it discussed the annual financial statements of siemens ag, the consolidated
          financial statements of the siemens group and the combined management report
          in detail at its meeting on december 2, 2014.

      the audit reports prepared by ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
      ­were distributed to all members of the supervisory board and comprehensively
       reviewed at the supervisory board’s meeting on december 3, 2014, in the presence
       of the independent auditors, who reported on the scope, focal points and main
       findings of their audit. no major weaknesses in the company’s internal control or
       risk management systems were reported. at this meeting, the managing board
       explained the financial statements of siemens ag and the siemens group as well as
       the company’s risk management system.

      the supervisory board concurs with the results of the audit. following the
      ­definitive findings of the audit committee’s examination and our own examination,
       ­we have no objections. the managing board prepared the annual financial state­
        ments of siemens ag and the consolidated financial statements of the siemens
        ­group. we approved the annual financial statements and the consolidated finan­
      cial statements. in view of our approval, the financial statements are accepted as
      submitted. at our meeting on december 3, 2014, we endorsed the managing board’s
         proposal that the net income available for distribution be used to pay out a divi­
         dend of € 3.30 per share entitled to a dividend and that the amount of net income
         attributable to shares of stock not entitled to receive a dividend for fiscal 2014 be
         carried forward.




124

changes in the composition of
the supervisory and managing boards
prof. dr. rainer sieg left the supervisory board on february 28, 2014, upon reaching
retirement age. lothar adler left the supervisory board on may 31, 2014, upon reach­
ing retirement age. they were succeeded by michael sigmund and olaf bolduan,
who were appointed to the supervisory board by court order. berthold huber,
gerd von brandenstein ­and prof. dr. peter gruss have announced that they will
resign from the supervisory ­­board, effective the end of the annual shareholders’
meeting on january 27, 2015. prof. dr. gruss will serve as the chairman of the
siemens technology & innovation council that reports to the managing board,
a move that – in line with the suggestions ­of the efficiency review – will further
strengthen technology and innovation at siemens. the supervisory board would
like to express its appreciation to the members who have left or are leaving the board
for their many years of loyal support. ­on the recommendation of the nominating
committee, the supervisory board decided at its meeting on december 3, 2014, to
propose to the 2015 annual shareholders’ meeting that dr. nathalie von siemens
and dr. norbert reithofer be elected to succeed the two departing shareholder
representatives, effective the end of the annual shareholders’ meeting. a successor
to mr. huber will be appointed by court order.

peter y. solmssen left the managing board, effective december 31, 2013. dr. michael
süß ­left the managing board, effective may 6, 2014. the supervisory board appointed
­lisa davis a full member of the managing board, effective august 1, 2014.

on behalf of the supervisory board, i would like to thank the members of the manag­
ing board as well as the employees and employee representatives of siemens ag
and all group companies for their outstanding commitment and constructive coop­
eration in fiscal 2014.

for the supervisory board




dr. gerhard cromme
chairman




                                                                                         125

               a.4  the siemens share / investor relations


               change in the value of an investment in siemens shares in fiscal 2014 (with dividends reinvested; indexed)

            in %   september 30, 2013                                                                                                                        september 30, 2014

            125
            120
            115
            110
            105
            100
             95
             90




                         siemens              dax®           msci world



      the siemens share price developed positively during fiscal 2014                            a.4.1 development of the siemens share
      in a market environment strongly impacted by economic and
      political factors. in the first four months, european stock mar-                           over the entire fiscal year, siemens stock performed well in
      kets and the siemens share price rose substantially due to un-                             the market environment, closing at € 94.37 per share on
      expectedly positive economic data. after the siemens share                                 ­september 30, 2014. for shareholders who reinvested their
      achieved its high for the year of € 101.35 in january 2014, stock                           ­dividends, this amounted to a gain of 9.3 % (fiscal 2013: a gain
      markets initially began to decline in february and then moved                                of 22.8 %, including the proceeds from the osram spinoff)
      sideways in the following months in a volatile stock market                                  compared to the price on september 30, 2013. the develop-
      environ­ ment. on september 30, 2014, the siemens share                                      ment of the siemens share price was slightly below the perfor-
      closed at € 94.37, a gain of 6 % compared to september 30, 2013.                             mance of the leading german stock exchange index, the
                                                                                                   dax (which rose 10.2 %), and the leading international index,
      the managing board and the supervisory board will propose                                    msci world (which advanced 12.2 %).
      a dividend payment of €3.30 per share for fiscal 2014. represent-
                                                                                                             long-term performance of siemens shares compared
      ing a planned payout ratio of 49%, this proposal ensures – in                                          with leading indices (average annual performance with dividends
      accordance with our one siemens dividend policy – that our                                             and the corresponding value of the osram spinoff reinvested)
      shareholders participate adequately in the company ’s profit                                                                                                 fy 2005 – fy 2014
                                                                                                      ten-year period
      ­development. in may 2014, we launched a share buyback pro-                                     siemens                 7.9%
       gram of up to € 4 billion. by the end of fiscal 2014, we’d acquired                            dax®                    9.3%
       shares with a total value corresponding to about € 1.1 billion.                                msci world              7.1%
       siemens ag continues to have a very sound financial b      ­ asis. in
       an environment in which the ratings of many countries have
       come under pressure, the company continues to e        ­ njoy good
       investment-grade credit ratings.                                                          the strength of the siemens share is also illustrated by a long-
                                                                                                 term comparison: the assets of an investor who acquired
                                                                                                 siemens stock worth € 1,000 at the beginning of fiscal 2005
                                                                                                 and reinvested the dividends and the corresponding value of
                                                                                                 the osram spinoff in additional siemens shares would have
                                                                                                 increased to € 2,147 by the end of fiscal 2014. this annual
                                                                                                 ­return of 7.9 % is above the results for msci world (7.1 %) but
                                                                                                  below those for the dax 30 (9.3 %).




      108    a.    to our shareholders                              131   b.   corporate governance                            171   c.   combined ­management report
126
      108    a.1   letter to our shareholders
      114    a.2   managing board of siemens ag
      118    a.3   report of the ­supervisory board
      126    a.4   the siemens share / ­investor relations

       dividend

 fiscal year                                                                                      fy 2014               fy 2013              fy 2012                fy 2011                fy 2010
 dividend per share                                                           in €                   3.301                 3.00                3.00                   3.00                    2.70
 dividend yield 2                                                             in %                    3.5                   3.0                  3.6                    3.9                    2.9
 ex-dividend date                                                                        jan. 28, 2015         jan. 29, 2014          jan. 24, 2013        jan. 25, 2012          jan. 26, 2011
 net income (as reported)                                    in millions of €                      5,507                 4,409                4,590                  6,321                  4,068
 total dividend payout                                       in millions of €                      2,7063                2,533                2,528                  2,629                  2,356
 payout ratio 4                                                               in %                     49                    57                   48                     42                     46


       1   to be proposed to the annual shareholders’ meeting.                3 based on estimated number of shares entitled to          4 to calculate the payout ratio, net income was adjusted
                                                                                 a ­dividend payment on day of annual shareholders’          for non-cash items in 2010 (dx impairment charges)
       2 dividend payout / siemens share price on day of
                                                                                 meeting for fiscal 2014.                                    and 2012 (impairment charges for solar and nsn
          ­annual shareholders’ meeting; for fiscal 2014:
                                                                                                                                             restructuring).
           ­dividend payout / siemens share price at fiscal year-end.




a.4.2 dividend proposal                                                                                   the goal of the delisting and deregistration was to address
                                                                                                          the change in the behavior of investors. the trading of siemens
at the annual shareholders’ meeting, the managing board and                                               shares is now conducted predominantly in germany and
the supervisory board will propose a dividend payment of                                                  via electronic trading platforms (over-the-counter, otc). the
€ 3.30, which represents a dividend yield of 3.5 % and a payout                                           ­trading volume of siemens shares in the u.s. was low, amount-
ratio of 49 %. this proposal continues our tradition of paying                                             ing to significantly less than 5 % of their global trading volume
attractive dividends to our investors.                                                                     over the last 12 months. the deregistration has enabled us to
                                                                                                           ­simplify our financial reporting processes and increase their
                                                                                                            efficiency.
a.4.3 share buyback program
                                                                                                          on october 8, 2014, the listing of the siemens share on the
in may 2014, siemens began to improve its capital structure                                               london stock exchange (lse) was terminated. on the same
and repurchase its shares. the share buyback program has a                                                date, six swiss exchange ag in zürich (six) approved the
total value of up to € 4 billion for the repurchase of shares by                                          ­request of siemens ag to terminate the siemens share’s listing
the end of october 2015. by september 30, 2014, the company                                                on the six stock exchange as of january 8, 2015.
had acquired about 11.3 million shares at an average price of
€ 95.25 per share, for a total value of around € 1.1 billion.                                             like the delisting in new york, these two delistings were the
                                                                                                          result of a change in investor behavior. in 2013, trading volume
                                                                                                          on both exchanges accounted for considerably less than 3 % of
a.4.4 delisting from stock exchanges                                                                      our global trading volume.
in new york, london and zürich
                                                                                                          independently of the delistings, high standards of transparency
on may 15, 2014, the listing of siemens’ american depository                                              in financial reporting and first-class corporate governance will
receipts (adrs) on the new york stock exchange (nyse) was                                                 continue to be a top priority at siemens. the company will, of
terminated. on the same date, the company applied for dereg-                                              course, continue to foster open and direct dialogue with its
istration at the u.s. stock exchange regulatory authority, the                                            german and international investors. the termination of the
united states securities and exchange commission (sec). the                                               stock exchange listings will have no impact on siemens’ stra­
deregistration became effective on august 15, 2014.                                                       tegic orientation or its presence.




247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements                           337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      127

      a.4.5 shareholder structure                                                            a.4.6 credit ratings
      with around 660,000 shareholders, siemens ag is one of the                             siemens ag has good, investment-grade credit ratings.
      world’s largest publicly owned companies. siemens has a sta-                           “aa3/negative/p-1” from moody’s investors service and “a+/stable/
      ble shareholder structure that has changed only slightly over                          a-1+” from standard & poor’s are very p ­ ositive ratings – particu-
      time. this applies, in particular, to our more than 650,000 pri-                       larly when compared to those of our competitors in the indus-
      vate siemens shareholders, who have often maintained their                             try sector. our solid financial position gives us unrestricted
      investments for many years. in july 2014, we mandated an ex-                           ­access to the international financial and capital markets.
      ternal institute to conduct an analysis of our shareholder struc-
      ture. based on an evaluation of publications from institutional                        at the end of fiscal 2014, the net debt of siemens ag was
      investors and on statistical estimates, this analysis showed that                      €  12,008 million, with cash and cash equivalents of € 8,013 mil-
      shareholders in germany hold the largest percentage of our                             lion. for further information on our credit ratings and financial
      outstanding shares, about 27 % of the total. shareholders in the                       obligations, please see     note 26 additional capital disclosures

      u.s. hold roughly 21 % and shareholders in the u.k. around 11 %,                       ­in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements on pages

      while investors in france hold 8 % and those in switzerland 8 %.                        290 - 292 of this annual report.

      around 64 % of siemens’ outstanding shares are currently held                                 credit ratings

      by institutional investors, about 19 % by private shareholders                                                       september 30, 2014               september 30, 2013
      and around 6 % by members of the siemens family. for fur-                                                       moody ’s       standard &       moody ’s        standard &
                                                                                                                     investors    poor’s ratings     investors     poor’s ratings
      ther information on our shareholder structure, please see                                                        service          services       service           services
         www.siemens.com/shareholderstructure .                                                 long-term debt           aa3                a+              aa3              a+
                                                                                                short-term debt            p -1           a -1+             p -1           a -1+




             investor type and regional distribution



                                                                                             u.k.: 11%
      private investors: 19%
                                                                                                                                                        germany: 27%
                                                                                             u.s.: 21%
      unidentified                                               institutional investors:
      investors: 11%                                                                64%
                                                                                                                                                        switzerland: 8%
                                                                                             unidentified: 11%
      siemens family
      members: 6%                                                                                                                                       france: 8%

                                                                                             rest of world: 9%
                                                                                                                                                              rest of europe: 5%




      108   a.    to our shareholders                       131    b.    corporate governance                        171    c.     combined ­management report
128
      108   a.1   letter to our shareholders
      114   a.2   managing board of siemens ag
      118   a.3   report of the ­supervisory board
      126   a.4   the siemens share / ­investor relations

a.4.7 siemens on the capital market                                                                 a.4.8 ownership culture /
                                                                                                    stock-based programs
we take our responsibility to maintain an intensive dialogue
with the capital market very seriously. cultivating close con-                                      fostering an ownership culture is a key pillar of vision 2020,
tacts with our shareholders, we keep them informed of all                                           which is sustainably supported, among other things, by em-
­major developments throughout siemens. as part of our inves-                                       ployee share ownership. siemens intends to increase the num-
 tor relations work, we provide information on our company ’s                                       ber of employee shareholders from today ’s figure of about
 ­development in quarterly, semiannual and annual reports. our                                      140,000 to over 200,000. to strengthen participation by em-
  ceo and cfo also maintain close contact with investors                                            ployees around the world in our company ’s success, we’re
  through roadshows and conferences. in addition, siemens                                           launching a new profit-sharing scheme for fiscal 2015. called
  holds capital market days, at which company management                                            siemens profit sharing, the scheme offers employees below
  ­informs investors and analysts about our business strategy                                       senior management level worldwide an opportunity to benefit
   and market environment.                                                                          from the company ’s outstanding success by receiving shares
                                                                                                    from siemens free of charge.1
        stock market information

                                                                   fy 2014 1        fy 2013 1        we already enable our workforce to participate in a variety of
 siemens stock price                                                                                 share-based programs: the siemens stock awards, the share
 (xetra closing price)                                                                               matching program (with its underlying share matching plan,
 high                                                    in �      101.35             90.33          monthly investment plan and base share program) and the
 low                                                     in �          88.71          76.00          ­jubilee share program. in fiscal 2014, 3,584,370 shares were
 fiscal year-end                                         in �          94.37          89.06           ­issued to service these programs. non-vested grants under the
 number of shares issued                                                                               various programs will result in additional share issuances
 (september 30)                                   in millions            881            881
                                                                                                       to employees in the future. for more detailed information
 market capitalization 2                     in millions of �      78,823           75,078
                                                                                                       on share-based payment, please see         note 32 share-based
 basic earnings per share3                               in �           6.37           5.08
                                                                                                    ­payment in        d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements
 diluted earnings per share3                             in �           6.31           5.03
                                                                                                       on pages 306 - 309 of this annual report.
 dividend per share                                      in �           3.30 4         3.00

                                                                                                    in addition to our share programs, we’ve established share
        1 fiscal year from october 1 to september 30.
        2   on the basis of outstanding shares.                                                     ownership guidelines. applicable company-wide, these guide-
        3   continuing and discontinued operations.                                                 lines require members of the managing board of siemens ag
        4 to be proposed to the annual shareholders’ meeting.                                      and other senior executives of the siemens group to hold an
                                                                                                                                          ­ etween 50 % and 300 %
                                                                                                    interest in siemens equal in value to b
we also provide extensive information online. quarterly, semi-                                      of their base compensation for the ­period in which they hold
annual and annual financial reports, analyst presentations and                                      office.
press releases as well as our financial calendar for the c­ urrent
year – which includes all major publication dates and the date
of the annual shareholders’ meeting (please see     e.7 financial                                        1 like siemens’ existing share programs, siemens profit sharing is a voluntary and
                                                                                                            discretionary benefit for eligible employees. the issuance of a new tranche or the
calendar on page 347 of this annual report) – are available at                                              distribution of the profit-sharing pool to employees in one or several fiscal years
                                                                                                            does not create a legal claim or right to issue a new tranche or to receive a distribu­
   www.siemens.com/investors. for each quarter and each fiscal                                              tion in subsequent years. if a distribution in shares is not feasible or economically
year, we also publish the siemens shareholder letter, which is                                              appropriate, an equivalent cash payment will be made.

addressed primarily to our private investors and provides a
brief summary of key developments during the previous quar-
ter or fiscal year.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                   337    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      129

      good corporate governance comprises
      ­responsible, value-based management
       and monitoring focused on long-term
       success. in this chapter, we present
       siemens’ corporate governance report,
       ­discuss the company ’s management
        and control structure, explain the
        remuneration of the managing board
        and the supervisory board and provide
        detailed insights into the takeover-­
        relevant information of the company.
       www.siemens.com/ar/corporate-governance




130

b.                   corporate
                     governance




                                                                                                             b. corporate governance
132 b.1     corporate governance report             144 b.4      compensation report
132 b.1.1   declaration of conformity pursuant                   (part of the combined
            to section 161 of the german stock                   ­management report)
            ­corporation act                        144 b.4.1 remuneration of members
132 b.1.2   management and control structure                  of the managing board
135 b.1.3   share ownership and share               163 b.4.2 remuneration of members
            ­transactions by members of the                   of the supervisory board
             ­managing and supervisory boards       164 b.4.3 other
135 b.1.4   annual shareholders’ meeting
            and investor relations
                                                    165 b.5      takeover-relevant information
                                                                 (pursuant to sections 289 para. 4
136 b.2      orporate governance statement
            c                                                    and 315 para. 4 of the german
            pursuant to section 289 a of                         commercial code) and explanatory
            the ­german commercial code                          report (part of the combined
            (part of the combined                                ­management report)
            ­management report)                     165 b.5.1 composition of common stock
                                                    165 b.5.2 restrictions on voting rights
                                                              or transfer of shares
138 b.3     compliance report (part of the
            combined ­management report)            165 b.5.3 equity interests exceeding 10 %
                                                              of voting rights
138 b.3.1   compliance priorities for fiscal 2014
                                                    165 b.5.4 shares with special rights conferring
139 b.3.2   compliance risk management
                                                              powers of control
139 b.3.3   business partners and suppliers
                                                    165 b.5.5 system of control of any employee
140 b.3.4   compliance training                               share scheme where the control rights
140 b.3.5   compliance indicators                             are not exercised directly by the
141 b.3.6   data privacy                                      employees
141 b.3.7   company-wide award for integrity        166 b.5.6 legislation and provisions of the
            and compliance                                    ­articles of association applicable to
                                                               the appointment and removal of
141 b.3.8   collective action and                              ­members of the managing board
            siemens integrity initiative                        and governing amendment to the
142 b.3.9   our revised compliance priorities –                 ­articles of association
            guidance until 2020                     166 b.5.7 powers of the managing board to
143 b.3.10 further information and                            issue and repurchase shares
           legal proceedings                        168 b.5.8 significant agreements which take
                                                              effect, alter or terminate upon a
                                                              change of control of the company
                                                              ­following a takeover bid
                                                    169 b.5.9 compensation agreements with
                                                              ­members of the managing board
                                                               or employees in the event of a
                                                               ­takeover bid




                                                                                                       131

             b.1  corporate governance report


      b.1.1 declaration of conformity                                             the regular term of office of the members of the supervisory
      pursuant to section 161 of the german                                       board will expire at the close of the annual shareholders’
                                                                                  ­meeting in 2018. jim hagemann snabe – who was appointed
      stock corporation act                                                        by court order until the end of the annual shareholders’
      siemens ag complies with all the currently applicable recom-                 meeting 2014 as successor to dr. josef ackermann, who re-
      mendations of the german corporate governance code (code)                    signed from the supervisory board effective september 30,
      without exception.                                                           2013 – was elected a shareholder representative on the
                                                                                   ­supervisory board at the annual shareholders’ meeting on
      the managing board and the supervisory board of siemens ag                    january 28, 2014. michael sigmund and olaf bolduan were
      have discussed compliance with the code’s recommendations                     ­appointed to the supervisory board by court order to succeed
      in detail. based on their deliberations, the boards have                       the employee representatives prof. dr. rainer sieg and lothar
      ­approved the annual declaration of conformity as of october 1,                ­adler, who resigned from the supervisory board effective
       2014. the declaration of conformity is posted on our website                   ­february 28, 2014 and may 31, 2014, respectively.
       and presented in chapter     b.2 corporate governance state-

      ment pursuant to section 289a of the german commercial code                 the composition of the supervisory board is to be such that its
      on page 136 of this annual report.                                          members as a group have the knowledge, skills and profes-
                                                                                  sional experience necessary to carry out its proper functions.
      siemens voluntarily complies with the code’s non-binding                    for this reason, the supervisory board approved ‒ taking into
      ­suggestions, with the following exceptions:                                account the code’s recommendations ‒ concrete objectives for
                                                                                  its composition in fiscal 2013:
      >> pursuant to section 3.7 para. 3 of the code, in the case of a
         takeover offer, a management board should convene an ex-                 >> the composition of the supervisory board of siemens ag
         traordinary general meeting at which shareholders discuss                   shall be such that qualified control and advising for the
         the takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions. the                 ­managing board is ensured. the candidates proposed for
         convening of a shareholders’ meeting – even taking into                      election to the supervisory board shall have the expertise,
         ­account the shortened time limits stipulated in the german                  skills and professional experience necessary to carry out the
          securities acquisition and takeover act (wertpapiererwerbs-                 functions of a supervisory board member in a multinational
          und übernahmegesetz) – is an organizational challenge for                   company and safeguard the reputation of siemens in public.
          large publicly listed companies. it appears doubtful whether                in particular, care shall be taken in regard to the personality,
          the associated effort is justified in cases where no relevant               integrity, commitment, professionalism and independence
          decisions by the shareholders’ meeting are intended. there-                 of the individuals proposed for election. the goal is to ensure
          fore, extraordinary shareholders’ meetings shall be convened                that, in the supervisory board, as a group, all know-how and
          only in appropriate cases.                                                  experience is available that is considered essential in view of
      >> since the managing board appointments of 2011, the sugges-                   siemens’ activities.
          tion in section 5.1.2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the code that the           >> taking the company’s international orientation into account,
          maximum possible appointment period of five years should                    care shall also be taken to ensure that the supervisory board
          not be the rule for first-time appointments to a management                 has an adequate number of members with extensive interna-
          board has not been followed.                                               tional experience. our goal is to make sure that the present
                                                                                      considerable share of supervisory board members with
                                                                                      ­extensive international experience is maintained.
      b.1.2 management and control structure                                      >> in its election proposals, the supervisory board shall also
                                                                                       pay particular attention to the appropriate participation of
      siemens ag is subject to german corporate law. therefore, it                     women. qualified women shall already be included in the
      has a two-tier board structure, consisting of a managing board                   initial process of selecting potential candidates for new elec-
      and a supervisory board.                                                         tions or for the filling of supervisory board positions that
                                                                                       have become vacant and shall be considered, as appropriate,
      b.1.2.1 supervisory board                                                        in nominations. we have meanwhile been able to increase
      as required by the german codetermination act (mitbestim-                        the number of women on our supervisory board to five.
      mungsgesetz), the company’s shareholders and its employees                       our goal is to maintain and, if possible, to increase this
      each select one-half of the supervisory board’s twenty members.                  ­number. it is also intended that – as is currently the case – at
                                                                                        the ­minimum one woman should be a member of the nomi-
                                                                                        nating committee.




      108   a.   to our shareholders               131   b.    corporate ­governance
132
                                                   132   b.1   corporate governance report                   144   b.4       compensation report
                                                   136   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                               c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                               section 289a of the ­german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                               (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                   138   b.3    ompliance report
                                                               c                                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                     (part of the combined management report)

>> an adequate number of independent members shall belong                     for the ­appropriation of net income and the report of the
   to the supervisory board. material and not only temporary                  ­ upervisory board to the annual shareholders’ meeting. in
                                                                              s
   conflicts of interest, such as organizational functions or advi-           ­addition, the supervisory board or the compliance committee,
   sory capacities with major competitors of the company, shall                ­which is described in more detail below, concern themselves
   be avoided. under the presumption that the mere exercise of                  with the company’s adherence to statutory provisions, official
   supervisory board duties as an employee representative                       regulations and internal company policies (compliance). the
   gives no cause to doubt the compliance with the indepen-                     supervisory board also appoints the members of the managing
   dence criteria pursuant to section 5.4.2 of the code, the                    board and determines each member’s portfolios. important
   ­supervisory board shall have a minimum of 16 members who                    managing board decisions – such as those regarding major
    are independent in the meaning of the code. in any case, the                ­acquisitions, divestments, fixed asset investments and finan-
    supervisory board shall be composed in such a way that a                     cial meas­ures – require supervisory board approval, unless the
    number of at least six independent shareholder representa-                   bylaws for the supervisory board specify that such authority be
    tives in the meaning of section 5.4.2 of the code is achieved.               delegated to the innovation and finance committee of the
    in addition, the supervisory board members shall have suffi-                 super­visory board. in the bylaws for the managing board, the
    cient time to be able to devote the necessary regularity and                 supervisory board has established the rules that govern the
    diligence to their mandate.                                                  managing board’s work.
>> the age limitation established in the bylaws for the super­
    visory board will be taken into consideration. in addition, no            the supervisory board has seven committees, whose duties,
    more than two former members of the managing board of                     responsibilities and procedures fulfill the requirements of the
    siemens ag shall belong to the supervisory board.                         german stock corporation act and the code. the chairmen of
                                                                              these committees provide the supervisory board with regular
these objectives for the supervisory board’s composition have                 reports on their committees’ activities.
been fully achieved: a considerable number of supervisory
board members are currently engaged in international activi-                  the chairman’s committee, which comprises the chairman
ties and / or have many years of international experience. since              and deputy chairmen of the supervisory board as well as one
the supervisory board election in 2013, the supervisory board                 further employee representative elected by the supervisory
has had five female members. dr. nicola leibinger-­kammüller                  board, makes proposals, in particular, regarding the appoint-
is a member of the nominating committee. the supervisory                      ment and dismissal of managing board members and handles
board has an adequate number of independent members. in                       contracts with members of the managing board. in preparing
the opinion of the supervisory board, a minimum of 16 super-                  recommendations on the appointment of managing board
visory board members are independent in the meaning of sec-                   members, the chairman’s committee takes into account the
tion 5.4.2 of the code. some supervisory board members                        candidates’ professional qualifications, international experience
hold – or have held in the past fiscal year – high-ranking posi-              and leadership qualities, the age limit specified for managing
tions at other companies with which siemens does business.                    board members, the managing board’s long-range plans for suc-
transactions between siemens and such companies are carried                   cession as well as its diversity and, in particular, the appropriate
out on an arm’s length basis. we believe that these trans­                    consideration of women. the chairman’s committee concerns
actions do not compromise the independence of the super­                      itself with questions regarding the company’s corporate gover-
visory board members in question.                                             nance and prepares the resolutions to be approved by the super-
                                                                              visory board regarding the declaration of conformity with the
the supervisory board oversees and advises the managing                       code ‒ including the explanation of deviations from the code ‒
board in its management of the company’s business. at regular                 and regarding the approval of the corporate governance report
intervals, the supervisory board discusses business develop-                  as well as the report of the supervisory board to the annual
ment, planning, strategy and the strategy ’s implementation.                  shareholders’ meeting. furthermore, the chairman’s committee
it reviews the annual financial statements of siemens ag and                  submits recommendations to the supervisory board regarding
the consolidated financial statements of the siemens group,                   the composition of the supervisory board committees and de-
the combined management report of siemens ag and the                          cides whether to approve contracts and business transactions
siemens group, and the proposal for the appropriation of net                  with managing board members and parties related to them.
income. it approves the annual financial statements of
siemens ag as well as the consolidated financial statements                   the compensation committee, which comprises the mem-
of the siemens group, based on the results of the preliminary                 bers of the chairman’s committee of the supervisory board as
review conducted by the audit committee and taking into                       well as one of the supervisory board’s shareholder representa-
­
account the reports of the independent auditors. the                          tives and one of the supervisory board’s employee representa-
­supervisory board decides on the managing board’s proposal                   tives, prepares, in particular, the proposals for decisions by the



171   c.   combined ­management report        247   d.   consolidated f
                                                                      ­ inancial statements          337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                     133

      supervisory board’s plenary meetings regarding the system of                 r­ epresentatives. the compliance committee concerns itself, in
      managing board compensation, including the implementation                     particular, with the company ’s adherence to statutory provi-
      of this system in the managing board contracts, the definition                sions, official regulations and internal company policies.
      of the targets for variable managing board compensation, the
      determination and review of the appropriateness of the total                 the nominating committee, which comprises the chairman
      compensation of individual managing board members and the                    and the second deputy chairman of the supervisory board as
      approval of the annual compensation report.                                  well as two further members to be elected by the shareholder
                                                                                   representatives of the supervisory board from among their own
      the audit committee comprises the chairman of the super­                     number, is responsible for making recommendations to the
      visory board, three of the supervisory board’s shareholder                   ­supervisory board on suitable candidates for election as share-
      ­representatives and four of the supervisory board’s employee                 holder representatives on the supervisory board by the annual
       representatives. according to the german stock corporation                   shareholders’ meeting. in preparing these recommendations,
       act, the audit committee must include at least one indepen-                  the objectives specified by the supervisory board regarding its
       dent supervisory board member with knowledge and experi-                     composition are to be taken into account as well as the required
       ence in the application of accounting principles or the audit-               knowledge, abilities and experience of the proposed candi-
       ing of financial statements. the chairman of the audit                       dates; attention shall also be paid to independence, diversity
       committee, dr. hans michael gaul, fulfills these statutory re-               and, in particular, the appropriate participation of women.
       quirements. the audit committee oversees, in particular, the
       accounting process and conducts a preliminary review of the                 the mediation committee, which comprises the chairman of
       annual ­financial statements of siemens ag, the consolidated                the supervisory board, the first deputy chairman (who is
       financial ­statements of the siemens group and the combined                 elected in accordance with the german codetermination act),
       management report. on the basis of the independent audi-                    one of the supervisory board’s shareholder representatives and
       tors’ report on their audit of the annual financial statements,             one of the supervisory board’s employee representatives, sub-
       the audit committee makes, after its preliminary review, rec-               mits proposals to the supervisory board in the event that the
       ommendations regarding supervisory board approval of the                    supervisory board cannot reach the two-thirds majority
       annual ­financial statements of siemens ag and the consoli-                 ­required for the appointment or dismissal of a managing board
       dated f­ inancial statements of the siemens group. in addition               member.
       to the work performed by the independent auditors, the audit
       committee discusses the company ’s quarterly financial state-               the innovation and finance committee comprises the chair-
       ments and half-year financial reports, which are prepared by                man of the supervisory board, three of the supervisory board’s
       the managing board, as well as the report on the auditors’ re-              shareholder representatives and four of the supervisory board’s
       view of the quarterly financial statements and the half-year fi-            employee representatives. based on the company ’s overall
       nancial report (condensed financial statements and interim                  strategy, the committee discusses, in particular, the company’s
       management ­report). it concerns itself with the company ’s                 focuses of innovation and prepares the supervisory board’s
       risk monitoring system and oversees the effectiveness of the                ­discussions and resolutions regarding questions relating to the
       internal control system as this relates, in particular, to finan-            company’s financial situation and structure ‒ including annual
       cial reporting, the risk management system and the internal                  planning (budget) ‒ as well as the company ’s fixed asset
       audit system. the audit committee receives regular reports                   invest­ments and its financial measures. in addition, the inno-
       from the internal ­audit department. it prepares the supervi-                vation and finance committee has been authorized by the
       sory board’s recommendation to the annual shareholders’                      ­supervisory board to decide on the approval of transactions
       meeting concerning the election of the independent auditors                   and measures that require supervisory board approval and
       and submits the corresponding proposal to the supervisory                     have a value of less than € 600 million.
       board. it awards the audit contract to the independent auditors
       elected by the a­ nnual shareholders’ meeting and monitors the              the composition of the supervisory board and its committees
       independent audit of the financial statements – including, in               is presented in chapter     d.7 supervisory board and managing

       particular, the auditors’ independence, professional expertise              board on pages 330 - 333 of this annual report. information on

       and services.                                                               the work of the supervisory board is provided in the        a.3

                                                                                   ­r eport of the supervisory board on pages 118 - 125. the com­

      the compliance committee comprises the chairman of the                        pensation paid to the members of the supervisory board
      supervisory board, three of the supervisory board’s shareholder               is ­explained in chapter    b.4 compensation report on pages

      representatives and four of the supervisory board’s employee                 163 - 164.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.    corporate ­governance
134
                                                    132   b.1   corporate governance report                   144   b.4       compensation report
                                                    136   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                section 289a of the ­german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    138   b.3    ompliance report
                                                                c                                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                 (part of the combined management report)                     (part of the combined management report)

b.1.2.2 managing board                                                         b.1.3 share ownership and share
as the company’s top management body, the managing board                       transactions by members of the
is committed to serving the interests of the company and
achieving sustainable growth in company value. the members                     managing and supervisory boards
of the managing board are jointly responsible for the entire                   as of september 30, 2014, the managing board’s current mem-
management of the company and decide on the basic issues                       bers held a total of 181,009 (2013: 216,560) siemens shares
of business policy and corporate strategy as well as on the                    ­
                                                                               representing 0.02 % (2013: 0.02 %) of the capital stock of
company’s annual and multi-year plans.                                         siemens ag, which totaled 881,000,000 shares.

the managing board prepares the company ’s quarterly finan-                    as of the same day, the supervisory board’s current members
cial statements and the half-year financial reports, the annual                held siemens shares representing less than 0.01 % (2013: less
financial statements of siemens ag, the consolidated finan-                    than 0.01 %) of the capital stock of siemens ag, which totaled
cial statements of the siemens group and the combined man-                     881,000,000 shares. these figures do not include the 9,386,535
agement report of siemens ag and the siemens group. in                         (2013: 9,313,438) shares or 1.07 % (2013: 1.06 %) of the capital
­addition, the managing board must ensure that the company                     stock of siemens ag, which totaled 881,000,000 shares, over
 adheres to statutory provisions, official regulations and internal            which the von siemens-vermögensverwaltung gmbh (vsv),
 company policies (compliance) and works to achieve compli-                    a german limited liability company, has voting control under
 ance with these provisions and policies within the siemens                    powers of attorney based on an agreement between – among
 group. further comprehensive information on the compliance                    others – members of the siemens family, including gerd von
 program and related activities in fiscal 2014 is presented                    brandenstein, and vsv. these shares are voted together by vsv
 in chapter       b.3 compliance report on pages 138 - 143 of this             based on proposals made by a family partnership established
 ­annual report. the managing board and the supervisory board                  by the siemens family or by one of its committees. gerd von
  cooperate closely for the benefit of the c­ ompany. the manag-               brandenstein is the chairman of the executive committee and
  ing board informs the supervisory board regularly, comprehen-                has a deciding vote in cases of deadlock.
  sively and without delay on all issues of importance to the
  ­company with regard to strategy, planning, business develop-                pursuant to section 15a of the german securities trading act
   ment, financial position, earnings, compliance and risks. when              (wertpapierhandelsgesetz), members of the managing board
   filling managerial positions at the ­company, the managing                  and the supervisory board are legally required to disclose the
   board takes diversity into consideration and, in particular, aims           purchase or sale of shares of siemens ag or of financial instru-
   for an appropriate consideration of women and internationality.             ments based thereon if the total value of such transactions en-
                                                                               tered into by a board member or any closely associated person
currently, there is one managing board committee, the equity                   reaches or exceeds € 5,000 in any calendar year. all transac-
and employee stock committee. this committee comprises                         tions reported to siemens ag in accordance with this require-
three members of the managing board and oversees, in particu-                  ment have been duly published and are available on the
lar, the utilization of authorized capital in connection with the              ­company’s website     www.siemens.com/directors-dealings .

issuance of employee stock and the implementation of certain
capital measures. it also determines the scope and conditions
of the share-based compensation components and / or pro-                       b.1.4 annual shareholders’ meeting
grams for employees and managers (with the exception of the                    and investor relations
managing board).
                                                                               shareholders exercise their rights in the annual shareholders’
the composition of the managing board and its committee is                     meeting. an ordinary annual shareholders’ meeting normally
presented in chapter      d.7 supervisory board and managing                   takes place within the first four months of each fiscal year. the
board on pages 334 - 335 of this annual report. information on                 annual shareholders’ meeting decides, among other things, on
the compensation paid to the members of the managing board                     the appropriation of unappropriated net income, the ratifica-
is provided in the   b.4 compensation report on pages 144 - 162.               tion of the acts of the managing and supervisory boards, and
                                                                               the appointment of the independent auditors. amendments to
                                                                               the articles of association and measures that change the com-
                                                                               pany ’s capital stock are approved at the annual shareholders’
                                                                               meeting and are implemented by the managing board. the
                                                                               managing board facilitates shareholder participation in this




171   c.   combined ­management report         247   d.   consolidated f
                                                                       ­ inancial statements         337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                   135

      meeting through electronic communications – in particular, via                 as part of our investor relations activities, we inform our inves-
      the internet – and enables shareholders who are unable to                    tors comprehensively about developments within the company.
      ­attend the meeting to vote by proxy. furthermore, shareholders              ­for communication purposes, siemens makes extensive use of
       may exercise their right to vote in writing or by means of elec-             the internet. we publish quarterly, half-yearly and annual
       tronic communications (absentee voting). the managing board                  ­reports, earnings releases, ad hoc announcements, analyst pre-
       may enable shareholders to participate in the annual share-                   sentations, shareholder letters and press releases as well as the
       holders’ meeting without the need to be present at the venue                  financial calendar for the current year, which contains the pub-
       and without a proxy and to exercise some or all of their rights               lication dates of significant financial communications and the
       fully or partially by means of electronic communications.                     date of the annual shareholders’ meeting, at         www.siemens.

       shareholders may submit proposals regarding the proposals of                  com/­i nvestors . details of our investor relations activities are

       the managing and supervisory boards and may contest deci-                     provided in chapter       a.4 the siemens share/investor rel ations

       sions of the annual shareholders’ meeting. shareholders                       on pages 126 - 129 of this annual report.
       ­owning siemens stock with an aggregate notional value of
        € 100,000 or more may also demand the judicial appointment                 our articles of association, the bylaws for the supervisory
        of special auditors to examine specific issues. the reports, doc-          board, the bylaws for the most important supervisory board
        uments and information required by law, including the annual               committees, the bylaws for the managing board, all our decla-
        report, may be downloaded from our website. the same                       rations of conformity with the code and a variety of other
        ­applies to the agenda for the annual shareholders’ meeting                ­corporate-governance-related documents are posted on our
         and to any counterproposals or shareholders’ nominations that              website at:   www.siemens.com/corporate-governance.

         require disclosure.




              b.2  corporate governance statement pursuant to section 289a
                    of the german commercial code
      the corporate governance statement pursuant to section 289a                        corporate governance code (“code”), published by the
      of the german commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch) is an                            ­federal ministry of justice in the official section of the
      ­integral part of the combined management report. in accord­                        ­federal gazette (bundesanzeiger).
       ance with section 317 para. 2 sentence 3 of the german
       ­commercial code, the disclosures made within the scope of                        since making its last declaration of conformity dated may 7,
        ­section 289a of the german commercial code are not subject                      2014, siemens ag has complied with the recommendations
         to the audit by the auditors.                                                   of the code with the one exception noted therein (contrary
                                                                                         to section 5.4.5, paragraph 1, sentence 2 of the code, jim
      declaration of conformity with the german                                           hagemann snabe, who is a member of the supervisory
      corporate governance code                                                          board of siemens ag and a former member of the executive
      the managing board and the supervisory board of siemens ag                         board of sap ag, held four supervisory board positions at
      approved the following declaration of conformity pursuant to                       other publicly listed companies). this exception has been
      section 161 of the german stock corporation act as of octo-                        eliminated since mr. snabe resigned his position on the
      ber 1, 2014:                                                                       ­executive board of sap ag, effective may 21, 2014.

            “declaration of conformity by the managing board and the                     berlin and munich, october 1, 2014
             supervisory board of siemens aktiengesellschaft with the                    siemens aktiengesellschaft
             german corporate governance code
                                                                                         the managing board   the supervisory board“
             siemens ag complies and will continue to comply with
             the currently applicable recommendations of the german




      108    a.   to our shareholders               131   b.    corporate ­governance
136
                                                    132   b.1   corporate governance report                   144   b.4       compensation report
                                                    136   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                section 289a of the ­german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    138   b.3    ompliance report
                                                                c                                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                 (part of the combined management report)                     (part of the combined management report)

information on                                                               operation of the managing board, the
corporate governance practices                                               supervisory board, and composition and
suggestions of the code                                                      operation of their committees
siemens voluntarily complies with the code’s non-binding                      the composition of the committees of the managing and super­
­suggestions, with the following exceptions:                                  visory boards is given under chapter    d.7 supervisory board

                                                                              and managing board on pages 330 - 335, respectively of the

pursuant to section 3.7 para. 3 of the code, in the case of a                ­annual report, as is a description of the composition of the
­takeover offer, a management board should convene an ex-                     managing board and the supervisory board. the compositions
 traordinary general meeting at which shareholders discuss the                can be accessed via the internet on:
 takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions. the con-                    www.siemens.com/289a .

 vening of a shareholders’ meeting – even taking into account
 the shortened time limits stipulated in the german securities               a general description of the functions and operation of the
 acquisition and takeover act (wertpapiererwerbs- und über-                  managing board and the supervisory board can be found under
 nahmegesetz) – is an organizational challenge for large pub-                the heading       b.1.2 management and control structure under

 licly listed companies. it appears doubtful whether the associ-             chapter      b.1 corporate governance report on pages 132 - 135

 ated effort is justified in cases where no relevant decisions by              and via the internet on:      www.siemens.com/289a . further

 the shareholders’ meeting are intended. therefore, extraordi-               ­details regarding the operation of the managing board and
 nary shareholders’ meetings shall be convened only in appro-                 ­supervisory board can be derived from the description of the
 priate cases.                                                               committees as well as from the bylaws for the corporate bodies
                                                                             concerned. these documents can be found at:
since the managing board appointments of 2011, the sugges-                       www.siemens.com/289a .

tion in section 5.1.2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the code that the
maximum possible appointment period of five years should not
be the rule for first-time appointments to a management board
has not been followed.

the code can be downloaded from the internet at:
  www.siemens.com/289a .



further corporate governance practices applied beyond legal
requirements are contained in our business conduct guidelines.

our company’s values
and business conduct guidelines
in the 167 years of its existence, our company has built an
­excellent reputation around the world. technical performance,
 innovation, quality reliability, and international engagement
 have made siemens one of the leading companies in electron-
 ics and electrical engineering. it is top performance with the
 highest ethics that has made siemens strong. this is what the
 company should continue to stand for in the future.

the business conduct guidelines provide the ethical and legal
framework within which we want to maintain successful activi-
ties. they contain the basic principles and rules for our conduct
within our company and in relation to our external partners and
the general public. they set out how we meet our ethical and
legal responsibility as a company and give expression to our cor-
porate values of being “responsible – excellent – innovative.”

the business conduct guidelines can be downloaded from the
internet on:   www.siemens.com/289a .




171   c.   combined ­management report       247   d.   consolidated f
                                                                     ­ inancial statements        337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                               137

             b.3  compliance report


      for us at siemens, integrity means acting in accordance with                 our activities in the world economic forum include the com­
      our values – responsible, excellent and innovative – wherever                pany ’s participation in the pact against corruption initiative
      we do business. a key element of integrity is compliance:                    and the siemens general counsel’s membership in the global
      ­adherence to the law and to our own internal regulations. we                agenda council on transparency & anti-­corruption.
       have zero tolerance for corruption and violations of the princi-
       ples of fair competition – and where these do occur, we rigor-
      ously respond.                                                               b.3.1 compliance priorities for fiscal 2014
      the compliance report is an integral part of the combined                    our compliance priorities provide the basis for the ongoing
      management report.                                                           ­
                                                                                   development and further improvement of our compliance
                                                                                   ­system. in this connection, we take into account and aim to
      our business conduct guidelines describe how we fulfill our                   fulfill continuously evolving requirements in the compliance
      compliance-related responsibilities. they are also an ­expression             field, which reflect both our own work and the changing mar-
      of our values and lay the foundation for our own internal regu-               ket conditions and compliance risks of our business activities.
      lations. our business conduct guidelines are binding for all
      employees worldwide.                                                         for fiscal 2014, we defined the following compliance priorities:

      our compliance system aims to ensure that all our worldwide                  >> stand for integrity: our aim is to support business leadership
      business practices are in line with these guidelines and in com-                in its responsibility for compliance and to execute our collec-
      pliance with all applicable laws. to serve this purpose and pro-                tive action strategy focused on tangible business benefits.
      vide the company with reliable protection against compliance                 >> committed to business: we want to foster trustful collabora-
      risks, our compliance system has three pillars: prevent, detect                 tion between the compliance organization and our busi-
      and respond. we are continuously working to further strengthen                  nesses as well as strengthen the market and customer focus
      compliance in our company and to combat corruption together                     of compliance.
      with other organizations (collective ­action).                               >> manage risk & assurance: we want to continue to provide our
                                                                                      businesses with the appropriate level of assurance within
      we actively support the enactment of the united nations con-                    our compliance system.
      vention against corruption and the anti-bribery convention of                >> responsibility for data privacy: we will assume new
      the organization for economic co-operation and development                      ­responsibilities in the area of data privacy.
      (oecd), which – like the ten principles of the united nations
      global compact – provide important guidance for our entire                   these priorities, which guided our activities in fiscal 2014, in-
      ­organization. we are also actively involved in the global com-              clude the conclusion of project- and market-specific collective
       pact. at the end of 2013, our chief compliance officer was                  action agreements and the launch of the second funding
       elected chairman of the task force on anti-bribery / corruption             round of the siemens integrity initiative. we have also carried
       of the business and industry advisory committee to the oecd.                out a project to reinforce our business-partner compliance due

             siemens compliance system


                                                               management responsibility




                              prevent                                        detect                                                    respond

        > compliance risk management                     > whistleblowing channels “tell us”                   > consequences for misconduct
        > policies and procedures                             and ombudsman                                     > remediation
        > training and communication                     > compliance controls                                  > global case tracking
        > advice and support                             > monitoring and compliance reviews
        > integration in personnel processes             > compliance audits
        > collective action                              > compliance investigations




      108   a.   to our shareholders               131   b.     corporate ­governance
138
                                                   132   b.1    corporate governance report                   144   b.4       compensation report
                                                   136   b.2     orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                section 289a of the ­german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                   138   b.3     ompliance report
                                                                c                                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                 (part of the combined management report)                     (part of the combined management report)

diligence process. the company’s compliance risk assessment                   b.3.3 business partners and suppliers
process has been further developed: besides other improve-
ments data privacy has been included therein as part of our                   cooperation with third parties such as sales agents, customs
activities to integrate data privacy into the compliance system.              clearing agents, consultants, distributors and resellers is part
                                                                              of company operations and often essential in order to reach
                                                                              certain areas of the market. at the same time, however, the
b.3.2 compliance risk management                                              company may be liable for the actions of these third parties.

our compliance risk assessment (cra) process requires that                    our mandatory process and tool for business-partner com­
ceos and managers in the company – together with the                          pliance due diligence is designed to help all siemens entities
­relevant compliance officers – systematically determine and                  ­
                                                                              conduct risk-based integrity checks of business partners.
 ­assess the compliance risks to their units on a regular basis.              ­transparent and risk-oriented decisions about a business part-
                                                                               ner relationship are based on high-quality compliance due
a cra was performed for all the company’s operating units in                   ­diligence.
fiscal 2013. based on our experience to date and the analysis
of these results, the cra process has been further developed.                 the management of each siemens unit is responsible for the
starting fiscal 2014, the cra is performed in two different ways:             unit’s utilization of business partners. this means that busi-
                                                                              ness partners must be carefully selected and appropriately
>> in even-numbered years, the cra process is performed for                   monitored and managed throughout the course of a business
                                   ­ rder to complement the anal-
   so-called top-risk countries in o                                          relationship.
   yses at lead country / division level with in-depth risk assess-
   ments for selected countries. we will identify these countries             in fiscal 2014, we carried out a project to reinforce the effective-
   in advance based on an analysis of external and internal                   ness of our business-partner compliance due diligence process
   compliance risks.                                                          and of management’s assessment of the related compliance
>> in odd-numbered years (starting in fiscal 2015), the cra                   risks. key outcomes of the project include the regular review of
   ­process will be performed at lead country / division level.              business partner portfolios at the lead countries and divisions
                                                                              and on-site compliance checks for selected types of business
in fiscal 2014, the cra was performed for a total of 14 top-risk              partners as part of due diligence. both measures are scheduled
countries. the cra results have been incorporated into the                    for implementation in fiscal 2015. furthermore we have
group-level compliance risk analysis, which aims to determine                 ­introduced a web-based compliance training program, which is
systematic and globally recurring compliance risks to the                      mandatory for certain business partners before they can enter
­company as quickly as possible. as well as the cra ­results, this             into a business relationship with our company. other business
 analysis of the overall group-level compliance risks takes into               partners may also take part in the training program on a volun-
 account, for example, the insights from compliance controls –                 tary basis.
 the ongoing assessment of the operation of our compliance
 processes to ensure their effectiveness – and the results of                 we require our suppliers to comply with our code of conduct
 case-related investigations.                                                 for siemens suppliers, which includes compliance with all
                                                                              ­applicable laws and, in particular, the prohibition of corrupt
the corporate compliance risks are derived from these consol-                  ­activities. we also require our suppliers to support the code’s
idated results, which are then shared with the company’s busi-                  implementation in their own supply chains. the code of
nesses. as in the cra process, relevant risks are reported to                   ­conduct is based on the ten principles of the united nations
siemens’ enterprise risk management (erm), and measures to                              ­ ompact. instruments such as sustainability self-assess-
                                                                                 global c
reduce the risks are drawn up and implemented.                                   ments by suppliers and sustainability audits by external audi-
                                                                                 tors enable us to systematically identify potential risks in our
the identification of compliance risks in individual siemens                     supply chain and to monitor whether our suppliers are in com-
­entities worldwide (cra) and the group-level compliance risk                    pliance with the code’s requirements.
 analysis are complemented by an interdisciplinary exchange
 during the quarterly compliance risk radar meeting.




171   c.   combined ­management report        247   d.   consolidated f
                                                                      ­ inancial statements          337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                     139

      b.3.4 compliance training                                                                        the “tell us” help desk and the company’s ombudsman are two
                                                                                                       secure reporting channels that can be used by our employees
      one focus of our preventive measures under the compliance                                        and external stakeholders to report violations of external and
      system is to provide compliance training to all managers and                                     internal rules. reports to these channels are passed on to our
      employees who hold positions with a particular risk profile. in                                  compliance organization. possible misconduct may also be
      fiscal 2014, the definition of these “sensitive functions” was ex-                               ­reported directly via the managing board or via supervisors
      panded and specified more precisely. in accordance with this                                      to the compliance organization and, in particular, to the
      definition, the compliance officers of the relevant company                                       ­
                                                                                                        compliance officers in our individual company units. our
      units identify the managers and employees whose participa-                                        ­employees regularly make use of this reporting channel. in fis-
      tion is required and ensure that they attend the training                                          cal 2014, the total number of compliance cases requiring
      ­sessions. they monitor and confirm the fulfillment of these                                       ­further inquiries or ­investigations reported via all the above-­
       require­ments at regular intervals.                                                                mentioned reporting channels was 653. we believe that the
                                                                                                          decrease from fiscal 2013 (908) is within the normal range of
      our company-wide compliance training portfolio consists of                                          variation.
      in-person and web-based training programs. the in-person
      training programs also provide our employees with an opportu-                                    the total number of disciplinary sanctions for compliance vio-
      nity to discuss correct behavior based on day-to-day work                                        lations in fiscal 2014 was 195 (fiscal 2013: 305). the disciplinary
      ­examples. in fiscal 2013, we introduced an annual integrity                                     sanctions reported in a specific fiscal year do not all relate to
       ­dialog to maintain a high awareness of integrity and compli-                                   the compliance cases reported in the same ­period: disciplinary
        ance topics at siemens. the dialog, which is conducted across                                  sanctions are frequently not implemented in the year in which
        the entire company, serves as a forum for managers to discuss                                  a case was reported. this is due to the fact that a reported com-
        recent compliance matters with their employees.                                                pliance case has to undergo the company’s entire internal case
                                                                                                       handling process (see top right), from the mandating and per-
      the assessment and analysis of compliance risks for the oper-                                    forming of an internal investigation to the documentation of its
      ating units and at group level offers important indicators that                                  results in an investigation report that will form the basis for
      help us develop and define the focus of our training activities,                                 related disciplinary sanctions and remediation measures.
      including the selection of themed modules for the annual
      events held in conjunction with the integrity dialog. our oper-                                  furthermore, a single reported compliance case may, for
      ating units address specific challenges by enhancing their                                       ­instance, result in several disciplinary sanctions or in no disci-
      training activities with additional topics from their own busi-                                   plinary sanctions at all – for instance, because the employee
      nesses or by extending the mandatory target groups for spe-                                       concerned meanwhile has left the company for some other
      cific compliance training programs in their units. in this way,                                   ­reason. therefore, too, it is not possible to establish a ­direct
      our training activities reflect both siemens-wide topics and the                                   correlation between the numbers of reported compliance cases
      key topics specific to the operating units.                                                        and the numbers and types of disciplinary sanctions
                                                                                                         ­implemented in a given reporting period.

      b.3.5 compliance indicators                                                                      in our view, the detected compliance violations in our company
                                                                                                       in the past fiscal year demonstrate once again that our
              compliance indicators1
                                                                                                       ­compliance system was properly designed and is ­being imple-
                                                                      year ended september, 30          mented effectively.
                                                                             2014              2013
       compliance cases reported                                             653               908     the “ask us” help desk encourages our employees to ask com-
       disciplinary sanctions                                                195               305     pliance-related questions. incoming questions are automati-
            therein warnings                                                 114               188     cally forwarded without prior registration to the compliance
            therein dismissals                                                50                75     officers responsible for the employees’ entities. furthermore,
            therein other 2                                                   31                42     all employees can pose questions directly to the compliance
                                                                                                       officers responsible for their respective units. most employee
              1 continuing and discontinued operations.                                               questions are now being handled and answered in this way.
              2 includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and
                 suspension.
                                                                                                       these questions are not registered either. in light of these
                                                                                                       develop­ments, we have decided to discontinue the reporting
                                                                                                       of inquiries submitted to the “ask us” help desk.




      108    a.   to our shareholders                                  131    b.    corporate ­governance
140
                                                                       132    b.1   corporate governance report                   144   b.4       compensation report
                                                                       136    b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                                    c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                                    section 289a of the ­german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                                    (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                       138    b.3    ompliance report
                                                                                    c                                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                     (part of the combined management report)                     (part of the combined management report)

       compliance investigation process


      compliance case

           allegation            assessment            mandating             research and               investigation         preparation              disciplinary
            received              carried out                                 planning                                         of the investi-          measures and
                                    by examining                                                                                gation report            remediation
                                     or evaluating
                                      the allegation                               compliance investigation
                                      before
                                     mandating an
                                   investigation




b.3.6 data privacy                                                                      i­ntegrity. this approach proved useful in the following period.
                                                                                         it was subsequently replaced by a specific process for dealing
in line with our compliance priorities for fiscal 2014, we’ve con-                       with weak compliance performance on the part of managers.
tinued to integrate data privacy into our company’s c  ­ ompliance                       as part of this process, a corrective factor is applied to bonus
system. selected measures include the integration of data                                payments if remedial action is not taken following the issuance
­privacy into the compliance risk assessments, data privacy                              of a ”yellow card.”
 ­reporting via our quarterly compliance performance review
  and the inclusion of data privacy incidents in our global compli-                     effective fiscal 2015, the consideration of weak compliance per-
  ance case tracking tool.                                                              formance on the part of managers has been made a mandatory
                                                                                        element of the company ’s bonus regulations. in addition, re-
data protection laws in the european economic area (eea)                                lated performance issues will also be addressed through the
­require a recipient of personal data located outside the eea to                        compliance organization. in light of the above and to reinforce
 provide a level of data protection equivalent to the level of data                     the recognition of exemplary commitment to integrity and
 protection in the eea. as a result, the instrument of binding                          compliance within the company, an annual award for integrity
 corporate rules (bcr) was developed at european union level                            and compliance will be presented starting in fiscal 2015. the
 to allow multinational groups of companies, such as siemens,                           award will honor outstanding examples of management
 to make transfers of personal data across borders and between                          ­responsibility for compliance and employee commitment to
 group companies that implement the bcr in compliance with                               compliance. in addition to recognition by company manage-
 the aforementioned requirement. in this context, siemens                                ment, the competition will promote best practices within
 has issued, effective fiscal 2015, its bcr for the protection of                        siemens and encourage others to follow these examples.
 ­personal data within the company.

                                                                                        b.3.8 collective action
b.3.7 company-wide award                                                                and siemens integrity initiative
for ­integrity and compliance
                                                                                        if substantial progress is to be made in combating corruption
in 2008, we made compliance excellence a component of the                               and fostering fair competition, as many stakeholders as pos­
incentive system for our senior management. this system was                             sible must act collectively. that’s why we have joined forces
not designed to honor basic compliance with the law and inter-                          with other organizations to fight corruption and promote
nal regulations, which is always expected. instead, it focused                          ­ethical markets through collective action and the siemens
on rewarding managers for “going the extra mile” in imple-                               ­integrity initiative.
menting our compliance program and driving a culture of




171   c.     combined ­management report                247   d.   consolidated f
                                                                                ­ inancial statements                   337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       141

      achievements during fiscal 2014 include a collective action in               b.3.9 our revised compliance priorities –
      colombia: in august 2014, a code of conduct was signed for the               guidance until 2020
      first time by around 190 companies associated with the colom-
      bian chamber of goods and oil services (­c ampetrol) as well                 since their introduction in fiscal 2011, our compliance priorities
      as several oil and gas operators. all of the signatories, of whom            have provided the focus of our compliance-related activities
      siemens is one, are committed to initiating corporate ethics                 and the basis for the ongoing development of our compliance
      programs that abolish and prohibit activities such as bribery                system. in light of our experience to date and – above all – in
      and the demand for and offering of undue ­favors. the signato-               line with our entrepreneurial concept vision 2020, we have
      ries have also agreed to disclose serious cases to campetrol                 ­decided to develop this approach further in order to create a
      and the regional center of the united ­nations global compact,                                   ­ erspective for the ongoing development of
                                                                                    reliable long-term p
      which will act as a neutral facilitator.                                      compliance at siemens.

      to support the enforcement of the code of conduct, a compli-                 ownership culture is a cornerstone of vision 2020, and the in-
      ance pact has also been signed, involving a whistleblower                    tegrity of our employees’ decisions and actions is an essential
      channel – supported by the secretary of transparency in the                  part of it. every employee is expected to act responsibly and
      president’s office – and sanctions in cases of wrongdoing.                   to live up to this principle. our compliance system aims to
                                                                                   ­support siemens employees in making risk-based decisions
      the global siemens integrity initiative was launched by siemens               with integrity – this is how compliance can ultimately provide
      on december 9, 2009. it earmarks more than us$100 million for                 ­reliable assurance to our company and its employees and at
      supporting organizations and projects fighting corruption and                  the same time help strengthen an ownership culture at
      fraud through collective action, education and training. the                   siemens. therefore, ownership culture lies at the heart of our
      initiative focuses on supporting projects that have a clear im-                compliance priorities.
      pact on the business environment, can demonstrate objective
      and measurable results and have the potential to be scaled up                compliance will also make further contributions to vision
      and replicated. the siemens integrity initiative constitutes one             2020. the following five compliance priorities define the levers
      element of the july 2009 settlement between siemens and the                  for the future development of compliance at siemens:
      world bank and the march 2013 settlement between siemens
      and the european investment bank (eib).                                      >> foster integrity: a clear tone from the top, coupled with tan-
                                                                                      gible ownership of compliance at all management levels, is
      the status of the 31 projects funded within the first funding                   essential. we will continue to help our managers meet this
      round – based upon the settlement with the world bank –, with                   ­responsibility. our new company-wide award for integrity
      a total contractual funding volume of us$ 37.7 million, was                      and compliance will play an important role in this respect.
      ­presented to the world bank in april 2014, together with the                    beyond the boundaries of our organization, we will continue
       siemens integrity initiative annual report 2013.                                to cooperate with our stakeholders in order to combat cor-
                                                                                       ruption and promote fair markets.
      the second funding round was announced on june 27, 2013,                     >> committed to business: our compliance organization and
       and the deadline for applications was august 29, 2013. we                       our businesses must work hand-in-hand to effectively miti-
      ­received more than 180 applications from about 60 countries.                    gate compliance risks. without compromising our integrity
       in a two-stage review and due diligence process, we selected                    standards, we’ll also intensify support for our businesses in
       projects which are to receive approximately us$ 30.0 million of                 order to allow them to seize business opportunities even in
       total funding over a period of three to five years. we began con-               challenging environments.
       cluding the funding contracts in october 2014.                              >> manage risk & assurance: we want to continue providing our
                                                                                       businesses with the appropriate level of assurance within
                                                                                       our compliance system. we constantly monitor external and
                                                                                       internal developments and, where necessary, update the
                                                                                       compliance safeguards for our company.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.    corporate ­governance
142
                                                    132   b.1   corporate governance report                   144   b.4       compensation report
                                                    136   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                section 289a of the ­german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    138   b.3    ompliance report
                                                                c                                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                 (part of the combined management report)                     (part of the combined management report)

>> excellent compliance team: we expect our compliance                                     ­ ompliance officers around the world and our company units.
                                                                                           c
   ­officers to combine compliance expertise with business                                 the other pillar of our compliance system – with its three
    understanding, and we offer them attractive career paths.                              ­action levels prevent, detect and respond – is the requirement
    that’s why we will continue working to develop a first-class                            that all siemens managers assume personal responsibility for
    learning and development landscape for our compliance                                   ­compliance at their respective units.
   organization. we will also reinforce close collaboration
    across the company ’s global compliance organization to                                we will continue to further develop our compliance system in
    ensure that we provide the best possible support for our                               order to adapt it to evolving requirements in the field of
                                                                                           ­
    businesses.                                                                            ­compliance. our overall aim remains unchanged: we want to
>> effective processes: utilizing our compliance portfolio man-                             anchor integrity permanently throughout our company in
    agement system, we will continue to improve our compliance                              ­order to e­ nsure sound business decisions based on clear princi-
    processes in order to optimize efficiency and keep opera-                                ples of ­integrity.
    tional burdens as low as possible while further strengthen-
    ing the assurance against compliance risks that those pro-
    cesses provide.                                                                       b.3.10 further information
                                                                                           and legal ­proceedings
our compliance priorities as of fiscal 2015 are illustrated and
briefly described in the figures below. these priorities, which                            for further information, please see:
will also guide our activities for fiscal 2015, will be supple-                                 c.9 report on expected developments and associated material

mented by focus areas and activities for each fiscal year.                                 opportunities and risks on pages 225 - 241 and                     note 28 ­l egal

                                                                                           proceedings in    d.6 notes to consolidated financial state-

the effectiveness of compliance at siemens is based on                                     ments on pages 293 - 295 of this annual report.

the global governance of our compliance organization and
clear-cut reporting lines and close cooperation between our                                     www.siemens.com/compliance


       compliance priorities for fiscal 2015


                                                                             foster integrity

                                                    support business management to meet its
                                                    responsibilities for compliance and further
                                                    strengthen the culture of integrity in our
                                                    ­company and beyond.




             committed to business                                                iance priorit                                      manage risk & assurance
                                                                              mpl               ies
                                                                            co
  further intensify cooperation between the                                          foster                                  continue providing our businesses with
  compliance organization and our b ­ usinesses                                     integrity                                the appropriate level of assurance within
  and reinforce our compliance system’s                                                                                      our compliance system.
  ­market and customer focus.
                                                                                                      m ssur
                                                              busine d to




                                                                                                       an
                                                                                                        a
                                                                    ss




                                                                                                          age nce
                                                                    e
                                                             committ




                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                             r isk &




                                                                                  ownership
                                                                                   culture
           excellent compliance team                                                                                                     effective processes
                                                                            c
                                                                      ex




                                                                        m elle                       tiv
                                                                       co




                                                                                                    e




  provide an excellent compliance team through                            p    n                   ec e                      continue to further optimize and streamline
                                                                       te lian t
                                                                                                      s




                                                                                                eff ess
  a first-class learning and development land­                           am ce
                                                                                                 pro
                                                                                                     c                       our compliance processes.
  scape and close collaboration.

                                                                                vision 2020




171   c.    combined ­management report           247   d.     consolidated f
                                                                            ­ inancial statements                      337    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                143

             b.4 compensation report


      the compensation report outlines the principles underlying                                      for their remuneration to be commensurate with the company’s
      the determination of the total compensation of the members of                                   size and economic position. exceptional achievements are to be
      the managing board of siemens ag, and sets out the structure                                    rewarded adequately, while falling short of goals is intended to
      and level of the remuneration of the managing board mem-                                        result in an appreciable reduction in remuneration. the
      bers. it also describes the policies governing, and levels of, the                              managing board’s compensation is also structured so as to be
      compensation paid to supervisory board members.                                                 attractive in comparison to that of competitors, with a view to
                                                                                                      attracting outstanding managers to our company and keeping
      this section is based on the recommendations of the german                                      them with us for the long term.
      corporate governance code (code) and the requirements of
      the german commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch), german                                          the system and levels for the remuneration of the managing
      accounting standards (deutsche rechnungslegungs standards),                                     board are determined and reviewed regularly by the full super-
      and international financial reporting standards (ifrs). the                                     visory board, based on proposals from the compensation com-
      compensation report is an integral part of the combined                                         mittee. the supervisory board reviews remuneration levels
      management report.                                                                              annually to ensure that they are appropriate. in that process,
                                                                                                      the company ’s economic situation, performance and outlook,
                                                                                                      as well as the tasks and performance of the individual manag-
      b.4.1 remuneration of members                                                                   ing board members, are taken into account. in addition, the
      of the managing board                                                                           supervisory board considers the common level of remunera-
                                                                                                      tion in comparison with peer companies and with the compen-
      b.4.1.1 remuneration system                                                                     sation structure in place in other areas of the company. here it
      the remuneration system for the managing board at siemens is                                    also takes due account of the relationship between the manag-
      intended to provide an incentive for successful corporate man-                                  ing board’s remuneration and that of senior management and
      agement with an emphasis on sustainability. members of the                                      staff, both overall and with regard to its development over
      managing board are expected to make a long-term commitment                                      time, and for this purpose the supervisory board has also
      to and on behalf of the company, and may benefit from any sus-                                  determined how senior management and the relevant staff
      tained increase in the company’s value. in the interest of that                                 are to be differentiated. the remuneration system that was in
      aim, a substantial portion of their total remuneration is linked to                             place for the managing board members for fiscal 2014 was
      the long-term performance of siemens stock. a further aim is                                    approved by 93.98% at the annual shareholders’ meeting on

             remuneration system for managing board members for fiscal 2014

      target compensation                                                          maximum amounts of compensation                                             share ownership guidelines




                                                                                               stock­based
                                                                                               components
                                                                                               (bonus awards
                                                                                               and stock
                                                                                               awards):
                                                                                               max. 300% of
                                       long­term stock­based compensation                      the respective
                                                                                               target amount                                                                        president
                                       > target parameter: stock price                                                                                                              and ceo:
                                         compared to 5 competitors                                                           compensation                                           3­times
      stock­                           > target parameter: ø earnings per share                                              overall                                                of base
      based                            > variability: 0 – 200% respectively                                                  max. 1.7­times                                         compen­
      compen­                          variable compensation (bonus)                                                         of target                                              sation
                                                                                               bonus (cash):                 compensation
      sation                           > target parameter: return on                           0 – 200%
                                         capital employed, free cash flow,                     add. + 20%
                                         individual targets                                    adjustment                                                                              managing
                                       > variability: 0 – 200%                                                                                                                         board
      cash                               add. ± 20% adjustment                                                                                                                         member:
                                       > 75% granted in cash and                                                                                                                       2­times
      compen­                            25% in bonus awards                                                                                                                           of base
      sation                           base                                                    base                          base                                                      compen­
                                       compen­                                                 compen­                       compen­                                                   sation
                                       sation                                                  sation                        sation



                    performance­based components with deferred payout                        performance­based component
                    non­performance­based component                                          obligation to hold shares during term of office on the managing board




      108   a.   to our shareholders                                   131   b.    corporate governance
144
                                                                       132   b.1   corporate governance report                         144   b.4   compensation report
                                                                       136   b.2   corporate governance statement pursuant to                      (part of the combined management report)
                                                                                   section 289a of the german commercial code          165   b.5   takeover­relevant information (pursuant to
                                                                                   (part of the combined management report)                        sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                       138   b.3   compliance report                                               german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                   (part of the combined management report)                        (part of the combined management report)

january 28, 2014. the new remuneration system that takes                      the adjusted amount of the bonus paid can be as much as 240 %
effect in fiscal 2015 is explained in section  b.4.1.4 remuner-               of the target amount. in choosing the factors to be considered
ation system for the managing board from fiscal 2015 onward .                 in deciding on possible revisions of the bonus payouts (± 20 %),
the new remuneration system will be submitted to the annual                   the supervisory board takes account of incentives for sustain-
shareholders’ meeting for its approval on january 27, 2015.                   able corporate management. the revision option may also
                                                                              be exercised in recognition of managing board members’ indi-
in fiscal 2014, the remuneration system for the managing board                vidual achievements.
had the following components:
                                                                              the bonus is paid 75 % in cash and 25 % in the form of gener-
non-performance-based components                                              ally non-forfeitable siemens stock commitments (bonus
base compensation                                                             awards). after a four-year waiting period, the beneficiary will
base compensation is paid as a monthly salary. it is reviewed                 receive one share of siemens stock for each bonus award. the
annually, and revised if appropriate. the base compensation of                value of siemens stock to be transferred for bonus awards
the president and ceo joe kaeser has been €1,845,000 per year                 after the waiting period is subject to a ceiling of 300 % of the
since the time of his appointment on august 1, 2013. the base                 target amount of the bonus awards. if this maximum amount
compensation of the cfo, of those members of the managing                     is exceeded, the corresponding entitlement to share commit-
board who have responsibilities for sector portfolios and of klaus            ments will be forfeited without replacement. instead of the
helmrich because of his additional services as labor director                 transfer of siemens stock, an equivalent cash settlement may
(“arbeitsdirektor”) has been €998,400 per year since october 1,               be effected.
2013. the base compensation of the other members of the man-
aging board has been €928,800 per year since october 1, 2013.                 long-term stock-based compensation
                                                                              long-term stock-based compensation consists of a grant of for-
fringe benefits                                                               feitable stock commitments (stock awards). the beneficiaries
fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivalent, of                     will receive one free share of siemens stock for each stock
non-monetary benefits and other perquisites, such as the pro-                 award after a restriction period. beginning with the award for
vision of a company car, contributions toward the cost of insur-              fiscal 2011, the restriction period for stock awards ends at the
ance, reimbursement of fees for legal advice, tax advice and                  close of the second day after publication of the preliminary
accommodation and moving expenses, including a gross-up for                   operating results for the fourth calendar year after the date of
any taxes that have to be borne in this regard, as well as costs              the award.
relating to preventive medical examinations.
                                                                              in the event of extraordinary unforeseen developments that
performance-based components                                                  have an impact on the stock price, the supervisory board may
variable compensation (bonus)                                                 decide to reduce the number of promised stock awards retro-
variable compensation (bonus) is based on the company ’s                      actively, or it may decide that in lieu of a transfer of siemens
business performance in the past fiscal year. the targets for                 stock only a cash settlement in a defined and limited amount
variable compensation are derived from the financial frame-                   will be paid, or it may decide to postpone transfers of siemens
work of our integrative management model one siemens. on                      stock for payable stock awards until the developments have
this basis, the supervisory board at the beginning of each                    ceased to have an impact on the stock price.
fiscal year defines specific targets. corresponding targets – in
addition to other factors – also apply to senior managers, with               in the event of a 100 % target attainment, the annual target
a view to establishing a consistent target system throughout                  amount for the monetary value of the stock awards com-
the company.                                                                  mitment is € 1.9 million for the president and ceo (effective
                                                                              august 1, 2013) and € 1 million for each of the other members of
for a 100 % target attainment (target amount), the amount of                  the managing board. beginning with fiscal 2011, the super-
the bonus equals the amount of base compensation. the bonus                   visory board has the option of increasing, on an individual
is subject to a ceiling (cap) of 200 %. if targets are substantially          basis, the target amount for a member of the managing board
missed, variable compensation may not be paid at all.                         who has been reappointed by as much as 75 % above the
                                                                              amount of € 1 million, for one fiscal year at a time. this option
the supervisory board is entitled to revise the amount resulting              enables the supervisory board to take account of the managing
from attaining targets by as much as 20 % downward or up-                     board member’s individual accomplishments and experience as
ward, at its duty-bound discretion (pflichtgemäßes ermessen);                 well as the scope and demands of his or her function.




171   c.   combined management report          247   d.   consolidated financial statements         337   e.   additional information
                                                                                                                                                  145

      the performance-based component of long-term stock-based                     maximum amount for compensation overall
      compensation is likewise founded on one siemens. the allo-                   in addition to the forfeiture rules to maintain the maximum
      cation rules for long-term stock-based compensation take this                amounts of compensation for variable compensation (bonus)
      focus into account as follows:                                               and long-term stock-based compensation, a maximum amount
                                                                                   for the compensation overall has also been agreed upon.
      > on the one hand, half of the annual target amount for the                  beginning with fiscal 2014, this amount cannot be more than
        annual stock awards is linked to the average basic earnings                1.7 times greater than target compensation. target compensa-
        per share (eps) from continuing and discontinued operations                tion comprises base compensation, the target amount for vari-
        for the last three completed fiscal years. in principle, the tar-          able compensation (bonus), and the target amount for long-
        get value is the average basic eps from the past three fiscal              term stock-based compensation, excluding fringe benefits and
        years completed prior to the year of compensation. at the                  pension benefit commitments. including fringe benefits and
        end of each fiscal year, the supervisory board decides on a                pension benefit commitments of the relevant fiscal year, the
        figure that represents that year’s target attainment, which                maximum amount of compensation for the overall compensa-
        may lie between 0 % and 200 % (cap). this target attainment                tion increases by corresponding amounts.
        will then determine the actual monetary value of the award
        and the resulting number of stock awards.                                  share ownership guidelines
      > on the other hand, the development of the performance of                   the siemens share ownership guidelines are an integral part
        siemens’ stock relative to competitors is to have a direct ef-             of the remuneration system for the managing board and senior
        fect on compensation. for this purpose, with respect to the                executives. these guidelines require the members of the
        other half of the annual target amount for the stock awards,               managing board – after a certain buildup phase – to hold
        the supervisory board will first grant a number of stock                   siemens stock worth a multiple of their base compensation –
        awards equivalent to the monetary value of half the target                 300 % for the president and ceo, 200 % for the other members
        amount on the date of the award. the supervisory board will                of the managing board – during their term of office on the
        also decide on a target system (target value for 100 % and tar-            managing board. the determining figure in this context is the
        get curve) for the performance of siemens stock relative to                average base compensation that each member of the managing
        the stock of competitors (for fiscal 2014, these are abb,                  board has drawn over the four years before the applicable date
        alstom, general electric, rockwell and schneider). the refer-              of proof of compliance. accordingly, changes that have been
        ence period for measuring the target will be the same as the               made to base compensation in the meantime are included.
        four-year restriction period for the stock awards. after this              non-forfeitable stock commitments (bonus awards) are taken
        restriction period expires, the supervisory board will deter-              into account in determining compliance with the share owner-
        mine how much better or worse siemens stock has per-                       ship guidelines.
        formed relative to the stock of its competitors. this determi-
        nation will yield a target attainment of between 0 % and                   evidence that this obligation has been met must first be pro-
        200 % (cap). if target attainment is above 100 %, an additional            vided after a four-year buildup phase, and updated annually
        cash payment corresponding to the outperformance is                        thereafter. if the value of the accrued holdings declines below
        effected. if target attainment is less than 100 %, a number of             the minimum to be evidenced from time to time because the
        stock awards equivalent to the shortfall from the target will              market price of siemens stock has fluctuated, the member of
        expire without replacement.                                                the managing board must acquire additional shares.

      the value of siemens stock to be transferred for stock awards                pension benefit commitments
      after the end of the restriction period is subject to a ceiling of           the members of the managing board, like all siemens ag
      300 % of the respective target amount. if this maximum amount                employees, are included in the siemens defined contribution
      of compensation is exceeded, the corresponding entitlement to                benefit plan (bsav). under the bsav, members of the managing
      stock commitments will be forfeited without replacement.                     board receive contributions that are credited to their personal
                                                                                   pension account. the amount of the annual contributions is
      with regard to the further terms of the stock awards, the same               based on a predetermined percentage which refers to the base
      principles apply in general for the managing board and for                   compensation and the target amount for the bonus. this per-
      senior managers; these principles are discussed in more detail               centage is decided upon annually by the supervisory board;
      in    note 32 share-based payment in       d.6 notes to consoli-             most recently it was set at 28 %. in making its decision, the
      dated financial statements . that note also includes further                 super visory board takes account of the intended level of provi-
      information about the stock-based employee investment plans.                 sion for each individual, also considering the length of time for




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.    corporate governance
146
                                                    132   b.1   corporate governance report                  144   b.4   compensation report
                                                    136   b.2   corporate governance statement pursuant to               (part of the combined management report)
                                                                section 289a of the german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover­relevant information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                 sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    138   b.3   compliance report                                        german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                 (part of the combined management report)

which the individual has been a managing board member, as                   commitments in connection with termination
well as the annual and long-term expense to the company as a                of managing board membership
result of that provision. the non-forfeitability of pension bene-           managing board contracts provide for a compensatory payment
fit commitments is in compliance with the provisions of the                 if membership on the managing board is terminated pre-
german company pensions act (betriebsrentengesetz). special                 maturely by mutual agreement, without serious cause. the
contributions may be granted to managing board members on                   amount of this payment must not exceed the value of two
the basis of individual decisions of the supervisory board. in              years’ compensation and compensate no more than the re-
the case of new appointments of members of the managing                     maining term of the contract (cap). the amount of the compen-
board from outside the company, these contributions may                     satory payment is calculated on the basis of base compensa-
be defined as non-forfeitable from their inception. if a member             tion, together with the variable compensation (bonus) and the
of the managing board earned a pension benefit entitlement                  long-term stock-based compensation (stock awards) actually
from the company before the bsav was introduced, a portion                  received during the last fiscal year before termination. the
of his or her contributions went toward financing this prior                compensatory payment is payable in the month when the
commitment.                                                                 member leaves the managing board. in addition, a one-time
                                                                            special contribution is made to the bsav. the amount of this
members of the managing board are entitled to benefits under                contribution is based on the bsav contribution that the board
the bsav on reaching age 60, at the earliest, or age 62 for ben-            member received in the previous year, and on the remaining
efit commitments made on or after january 1, 2012. as a rule,               term of the appointment, but is limited to not more than two
the accrued pension benefit balance is paid out to the                      years’ contributions (cap). the above benefits are not paid if an
managing board member in twelve annual installments. at the                 amicable termination of the member’s activity on the managing
request of the managing board member or of his or her surviv-               board is agreed upon at the member’s request, or if there is
ing dependents, the pension benefit balance may also be paid                serious cause for the company to terminate the employment
out in fewer installments or as a lump sum, subject to the                  relationship.
company’s consent. the accrued pension benefit balance may
also be paid out as a pension. as a further alternative, the                in the event of a change of control that results in a substantial
managing board member may choose a combination of pay-                      change in the position of the managing board member – for
ment in one to twelve installments and payment of a pension.                example, due to a change in corporate strategy or a change in
if the pension option is chosen, a decision must be made as to              the managing board member’s duties and responsibilities –
whether it should include pensions for surviving dependents.                the member of the managing board has the right to terminate
if a member of the managing board dies while receiving a pen-               his or her contract with the company for good cause. a change
sion, benefits will be paid to the member’s surviving depen-                of control exists if one or more shareholders acting jointly or in
dents if the member chose such benefits. the company will                   concert acquire a majority of the voting rights in siemens ag
then provide a limited-term pension to surviving children until             and exercise a controlling influence, or if siemens ag becomes
they reach age 27, or age 25 in the case of benefit commitments             a dependent enterprise as a result of entering into an inter-
made on or after january 1, 2007.                                           company agreement within the meaning of section 291 of the
                                                                            german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz), or if siemens ag
benefits from the retirement benefit system that was in place               is to be merged into an existing corporation or other entity. if
before the bsav are normally granted as pension benefits with               this right of termination is exercised, the managing board
a surviving dependent’s pension. in this case as well, a payout             member is entitled to a severance payment in the amount of
in installments or a lump sum may be chosen instead of pen-                 not more than two years’ compensation. the calculation of the
sion payments.                                                              annual compensation includes not only the base compensation
                                                                            and the target amount for the bonus, but also the target
members of the managing board who were employed by the                      amount for the stock awards, in each case based on the most
company on or before september 30, 1983, are entitled to tran-              recent completed fiscal year prior to termination of the con-
sition payments for the first six months after retirement, equal            tract. the stock-based components for which a firm commit-
to the difference between their final base compensation and the             ment already exists will remain unaffected. there is no entitle-
retirement benefits payable under the corporate pension plan.               ment to a severance payment if the managing board member
                                                                            receives benefits from third parties in connection with a
                                                                            change of control. moreover, there is no right to terminate if
                                                                            the change of control occurs within a period of twelve months
                                                                            prior to a managing board member’s retirement.




171   c.   combined management report        247   d.   consolidated financial statements         337   e.   additional information
                                                                                                                                                 147

      additionally, compensatory or severance payments cover non-                  b.4.1.2 remuneration of the members
      monetary benefits by including an amount of 5 % of the total                 of the managing board for fiscal 2014
      compensation or severance amount. compensatory or sever-                     on the basis of the financial framework in the context of one
      ance payments will be reduced by 15 % as a lump-sum allow-                   siemens, at the beginning of the fiscal year the supervisory
      ance for discounted values and for income earned elsewhere.                  board set the targets and weighting for the parameters of return
      however, this reduction will apply only to the portion of the                on capital employed (roce) and free cash flow, together with
      compensatory or severance payment that was calculated with-                  earnings per share (eps), in each case on the basis of continu-
      out taking account of the first six months of the remaining                  ing and discontinued operations. the definition of these param-
      term of the managing board member’s contract.                                eters and their weighting acknowledges a sustainable enhance-
                                                                                   ment of corporate value. additionally, in setting the target for
      if a member leaves the managing board, the variable compen-                  the variable compensation (bonus) for those managing board
      sation (bonus) is determined pro rata temporis after the end of              members with responsibilities for sector portfolios, the super-
      the fiscal year in which the appointment was terminated and is               visory board set economic value added (eva) as a sector-specific
      settled in cash at the usual payout or transfer date, as the case            target, as well as additional individual targets for all members of
      may be. if the employment contract is terminated in the course               the managing board so as to take fuller account of the individ-
      of an appointment period, the non-forfeitable stock commit-                  ual board members’ performance. for this purpose, up to five
      ments (bonus awards) for which the waiting period is still in                individual targets were generally defined; these take account of
      progress remain in effect without restriction. if the employ-                such aspects as business performance in the regions, imple-
      ment agreement is terminated because of retirement, disability               mentation of portfolio measures, and customer satisfaction. an
      or death, a managing board member’s bonus awards will be                     external review of the appropriateness of the managing board’s
      settled in cash as of the date of departure from the board.                  compensation for fiscal 2014 confirmed that the remuneration
                                                                                   of the managing board resulting from target attainment for fis-
      stock commitments that were made as long-term stock-based                    cal 2014 is to be considered appropriate. in light of this expert
      compensation (stock awards) and for which the restriction                    review, and following a review of the achievement of the targets
      period is still in progress will be forfeited without replacement            set at the beginning of the fiscal year, the supervisory board
      if the employment agreement is not extended after the end of                 decided at its meeting on november 5, 2014, to set the variable
      an appointment period, either at the board member’s request                  compensation (bonus), the bonus awards and stock awards to
      or because there is serious cause that would have entitled the               be granted, and the pension benefit contributions as follows:
      company to revoke the appointment or terminate the contract.
      however, once granted, stock awards are not forfeited if the                 variable compensation (bonus)
      employment agreement is terminated by mutual agreement at                    in setting the targets for the variable compensation (bonus) at
      the company ’s request, or because of retirement, disability or              the beginning of fiscal 2014, the supervisory board took into
      death, or in connection with a spinoff, the transfer of an oper-             account that the company continues to focus on a sustainable
      ation, or a change of activity within the corporate group. in this           appreciation of value. this focus is intended to enable the com-
      case, the stock awards will remain in effect upon termination                pany to maintain its financial flexibility and hold its own
      of the employment agreement and will be honored on expira-                   against competitors even in periods of high market volatility:
      tion of the restriction period.
                                                                                   the emphasis in terms of the sustainable enhancement of
                                                                                   value was on capital efficiency and capital structure. target
                                                                                   values slightly higher than the prior-year figures were set in the
                                                                                   case of return on capital employed and substantially higher
                                                                                   than the prior-year figures in the case of free cash flow. these
                                                                                   were agreed upon uniformly with all members of the managing
                                                                                   board. moreover, the target values for the target parameters
                                                                                   were set on the basis of continuing and discontinued opera-
                                                                                   tions, so as to take full account of the managing board’s overall
                                                                                   responsibility for the company ’s economic situation, perfor-
                                                                                   mance and outlook. additionally, targets were set taking
                                                                                   account of business expectations for fiscal 2014. here capital
                                                                                   efficiency improved because of the absence of the expenses for
                                                                                   the siemens 2014 program in comparison to the prior year, as
                                                                                   well as because of effects outside the sectors.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.    corporate governance
148
                                                    132   b.1   corporate governance report                  144   b.4   compensation report
                                                    136   b.2   corporate governance statement pursuant to               (part of the combined management report)
                                                                section 289a of the german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover­relevant information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                 sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    138   b.3   compliance report                                        german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                 (part of the combined management report)

the following targets were set and attained with respect to                                                                                                                                compensation (stock awards) for fiscal 2014 will be calculated      total compensation
these two target parameters for variable compensation (bonus):                                                                                                                             once the actual target attainment is available, and will be         on the basis of the decisions by the supervisory board de-
                                                                                                                                                                                           granted at the usual date. the stock awards already granted         scribed above, managing board compensation for fiscal 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                           in the past and those for fiscal 2014, for which the restriction    totaled € 28.57 million, a decrease of 17.4 % (2013: € 34.58 mil-
 target parameter                                                                                         100% of target     actual fy 2014 figure               target attainment         period is still running, will be absolutely maintained, in accor-   lion). of this total amount, €17.89 million (2013: €16.98 million)
 return on capital employed (roce) 1                                                                              15.4%                       17.3%                     163.67%            dance with the terms of his contract with the company, and          was attributable to cash compensation and € 10.68 million
 free cash flow 1                                                                                       € 5,250 million               € 5,201million                      97.55%           will be settled in cash in september 2015 at the closing price      (2013: € 17.60 million) to stock-based compensation.
                                                                                                                                                                                           of siemens stock in xetra trading on may 6, 2014 (€ 93.91).
       1   continuing and discontinued operations. the values measured for target attainment were not adjusted.                                                                            dr. süß agreed not to take up activities for any significant        the following disclosure of the compensation granted for fis-
                                                                                                                                                                                           competitor of siemens for a period of one year after the end        cal 2014 takes account not only of the applicable reporting
                                                                                                                                                                                           of his employment contract ‒ that is, until september 30,           standards, but also of the recommendations of the code. con-
in addition, in determining target attainment, the attainment                                    beneficiaries are not entitled to receive dividends. this figure                          2015. for this post-contractual non-compete commitment, he          sequently, the model table recommended by the code for dis-
of sector-specific targets for economic value added (eva) and                                    for determining the number of commitments amounted to                                     will be paid a monthly total of gross € 65,000. in determining      closing the value of benefits granted for the year under review
of the respective individual targets was taken into account. in                                  €72.30 (2013: €80.88).                                                                    the amount of the compensatory payment for dr. süß, in ac-          was used. the figures presented also include the attainable
measuring attainment of the individual targets, the super-                                                                                                                                 cordance with the terms of his contract with the company,           minimums or maximums, as applicable. the fair values shown
visory board took account of the compensation committee’s                                        benefits associated with termination                                                      the base compensation for fiscal 2014 and the variable com-         for granted stock-based compensation were calculated on the
recommendation.                                                                                  of managing board membership                                                              pensation and long-term stock-based compensation actually           basis of the applicable reporting standards. the transfer of
                                                                                                 as barbara kux’s appointment to the managing board expired                                received for fiscal 2013 were applied and limited, as applica-      one share per award will not take place until the expiration of
in an overall assessment of all aspects, taking individual                                       regularly on november 16, 2013, no compensatory payments                                  ble, to either two annual payments in total or the compensa-        the four-year waiting or restriction period – that is, not until
achievements into account and exercising its duty-bound                                          were agreed upon in that connection. the stock awards already                             tion for the remaining term of his appointment. the portion         november 2018. the number of stock awards linked to the
discretion (pflichtgemäßes ermessen), the supervisory board                                      granted in the past for fiscal 2011, 2012 and 2013, for which the                         of the compensatory payment that was calculated excluding           performance of the price of siemens stock will be adjusted
decided to adjust the bonus payout amounts resulting from                                        restriction period is still running, will be absolutely maintained,                       the first six months of the remaining contract term was re-         after the end of the restriction period, on the basis of the
target attainment downward for one managing board member.                                        in accordance with the terms of her contract with the company.                            duced by 15 % as a lump-sum allowance for discounted values         actual target attainment. accordingly, the value of the ac-
taking this adjustment by the supervisory board into account,                                                                                                                              and for income earned elsewhere. in addition, non-monetary          tual shares transferred may be higher or lower than shown
target attainment grades of the bonus for members of the                                         in connection with the mutually agreed termination of peter y.                            benefits were covered by a payment in the amount of 5 % of          here, also depending on the stock price in effect at the time
managing board came to between 78.81 % and 161.57 %.                                             solmssen’s activity on the managing board as of december 31,                              the compensatory payment.                                           of transfer.
                                                                                                 2013, it was agreed that his contract with the company would
long-term stock-based compensation                                                               remain in effect until march 31, 2015. the entitlements agreed                                                                                                the compensation presented on the following pages was
for half of the annual target amount for the stock awards, an                                    upon under the contract will remain in effect until that date.                                                                                                granted to the members of the managing board for fiscal 2014
average basic eps of €5.40 was determined for fiscal years 2012                                  these will not include the fringe benefits under the contract,                                                                                                (individualized disclosure).
through 2014, yielding a target attainment of 96 %.                                              particularly the company car and contributions toward the cost
                                                                                                 of insurance, which will be covered until the contract ends by
for the other half of the annual target amount for the stock                                     a monthly lump-sum payment of € 11,500. the stock awards
awards, the supervisory board approved a number of stock                                         already granted in the past for fiscal 2011, 2012 and 2013, for
awards equivalent to the monetary value of half the target                                       which the restriction period is still in progress, will be abso-
amount on the award date. the amount by which these stock                                        lutely maintained. mr. solmssen was also reimbursed for relo-
commitments must be adjusted – or an additional cash pay-                                        cation costs, in accordance with the commitment he received
ment must be made – after the end of the restriction period                                      when he took office. the company furthermore reimbursed
will depend on the performance of siemens stock compared to                                      mr. solmssen for out-of-pocket expenses of € 100,000 plus
the stock of five competitors – abb, alstom, general electric,                                   value added-tax.
rockwell and schneider – over the coming four years, and will
therefore not be determined until after the end of fiscal 2018. if                               in connection with the mutually agreed termination of
significant changes occur among the relevant competitors                                         dr. michael süß’s activity on the managing board as of may 6,
during the period under consideration, the supervisory board                                     2014, it was agreed that his current contract with the company
may appropriately take these changes into account in deter-                                      would terminate as of september 30, 2014. the entitlements
mining the values for comparison and / or calculating the rele-                                  agreed upon under the contract remained in effect until that
vant stock prices of those competitors.                                                          date. dr. süß receives a compensatory payment in the gross
                                                                                                 amount of € 4,286,092 in connection with the mutually agreed
the number of stock commitments (bonus awards and stock                                          premature termination of his activity as a member of the man-
awards) granted was based on the closing price of siemens                                        aging board, together with a one-time special contribution of
stock in xetra trading on the date of award less the present                                     € 812,700 to the bsav, to be credited in january 2015. it was
value of dividends expected during the holding period, because                                   also agreed with dr. süß that the long-term stock-based




171   c.   combined management report                           247   d.    consolidated financial statements              337   e.     additional information
                                                                                                                                                                                     149

     managing board members serving as of september 30, 2014

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       joe kaeser                                                    dr. roland busch                                                           lisa davis 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 president and ceo                     member with responsibilities for sector portfolio                  member with responsibilities for sector portfolio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     since august 1, 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                        fy 2013           fy 2014          fy 2014           fy 2014           fy 2013           fy 2014          fy 2014           fy 2014        fy 2013          fy 2014          fy 2014           fy 2014
(amounts in €)                                                                                                                                                                                                               (min)             (max)                                                (min)             (max)                                            (min)             (max)

non­performance­                                                        fixed compensation (base compensation)                                                                       1,113,750       1,845,000        1,845,000         1,845,000            967,500          998,400           998,400          998,400                 –       166,400           166,400           166,400
based components                                                        fringe benefits 1                                                                                              71,843            95,184           95,184            95,184            48,591            51,089           51,089            51,089                –         14,542            14,542           14,542
                                                                        total                                                                                                        1,185,593       1,940,184        1,940,184         1,940,184           1,016,091       1,049,489        1,049,489         1,049,489                 –       180,942           180,942           180,942
performance­based            without long­term incentive                one­year variable compensation (bonus) –
components                   effect, non­stock­based                    cash component (gcgc) 2                                                                                       556,875        1,383,750                    0     3,321,000            483,750          748,800                    0     1,797,120                 –       124,800                    0        299,520
                             with long­term incentive                   multi­year variable compensation 3, 4                                                                        2,542,970       2,220,668                    0     7,083,750           1,551,574       1,218,300                    0     3,748,800                 –     1,520,154                    0     5,566,905
                             effect, stock­based                        variable compensation (bonus) – bonus awards 2, 5                                                             558,881          672,101                    0     1,383,750            433,840          403,289                    0       748,800                 –         41,645                   0        124,800
                                                                        siemens stock awards (restriction period: 4 years)
                                                                           target attainment depending on eps for past three fiscal years 5                                          1,047,315         912,065                    0     2,850,000            590,020          480,000                    0     1,500,000                 –       870,781                    0     2,721,053
                                                                           target attainment depending on future stock performance 6                                                  936,774          636,502                    0     2,850,000            527,714          335,011                    0     1,500,000                 –       607,728                    0     2,721,052
                                                                        total 7                                                                                                      4,285,438       5,544,602        1,940,184         9,503,000           3,051,415       3,016,589        1,049,489         5,094,560                 –     1,825,896           180,942           849,093
                                                                        service cost                                                                                                  504,323        1,058,566        1,058,566         1,058,566            520,736          561,000           561,000          561,000                 –     2,818,722        2,818,722         2,818,722
                                                                        total (gcgc) 8                                                                                               4,789,761       6,603,168        2,998,750 10,561,566                  3,572,151       3,577,589        1,610,489         5,655,560                 –     4,644,618        2,999,664         3,667,815
total compensation of all managing board members for fiscal 2014, according to the applicable reporting standards, amounted to €28.57
(2013: €34.58 9) million. the granted payout amount presented below is to be used instead of the target value according to the gcgc for
the one­year variable compensation (bonus), and service costs for pension benefits are not included. in addition, the cash component of
the compensatory payment of lisa davis in the amount of €1,098,246 is included.
performance­based              without long­term incentive              one­year variable compensation (bonus) –
components                     effect, non­stock­based                  cash component 2                                                                                              558,849        2,016,262                                               433,819        1,209,836                                                    –       124,800
total compensation                                                                                                                                                                   4,287,412       6,177,114                                              3,001,484       3,477,625                                                    –     1,825,896




     managing board members serving as of september 30, 2014

                                                                                                                                                                                                              prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                                          dr. ralf p. thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                                member with responsibilities for sector portfolio                                                                       cfo



                                                                                                                                                                                        fy 2013           fy 2014          fy 2014           fy 2014           fy 2013           fy 2014          fy 2014           fy 2014
(amounts in €)                                                                                                                                                                                                               (min)             (max)                                                (min)             (max)

non­performance­                                                        fixed compensation (base compensation)                                                                        967,500          998,400           998,400          998,400             34,938          998,400           998,400          998,400
based components                                                        fringe benefits 1                                                                                              42,134            43,731           43,731            43,731                2,465         61,222           61,222            61,222
                                                                        total                                                                                                        1,009,634       1,042,131        1,042,131         1,042,131             37,403        1,059,622        1,059,622         1,059,622
performance­based            without long­term incentive                one­year variable compensation (bonus) –
components                   effect, non­stock­based                    cash component (gcgc) 2                                                                                       483,750          748,800                    0     1,797,120             17,469          748,800                    0     1,797,120
                             with long­term incentive                   multi­year variable compensation 3, 4                                                                        1,856,952       1,171,739                    0     3,748,800             57,134        1,163,786                    0     3,748,800
                             effect, stock­based                        variable compensation (bonus) – bonus awards 2, 5                                                             459,722          356,728                    0       748,800             16,661          348,775                    0       748,800
                                                                        siemens stock awards (restriction period: 4 years)
                                                                           target attainment depending on eps for past three fiscal years 5                                           737,545          480,000                    0     1,500,000             21,352          480,000                    0     1,500,000
                                                                           target attainment depending on future stock performance 6                                                  659,685          335,011                    0     1,500,000             19,121          335,011                    0     1,500,000
                                                                        total 7                                                                                                      3,350,336       2,962,670        1,042,131         5,094,560            112,006        2,972,208        1,059,622         5,094,560
                                                                        service cost                                                                                                  519,915          560,147           560,147          560,147            208,034          230,055           230,055          230,055
                                                                        total (gcgc) 8                                                                                               3,870,251       3,522,817        1,602,278         5,654,707            320,040        3,202,263        1,289,677         5,324,615
total compensation of all managing board members for fiscal 2014, according to the applicable reporting standards, amounted to €28.57
(2013: €34.58 9) million. the granted payout amount presented below is to be used instead of the target value according to the gcgc for
the one­year variable compensation (bonus), and service costs for pension benefits are not included. in addition, the cash component of
the compensatory payment of lisa davis in the amount of €1,098,246 is included.
performance­based              without long­term incentive              one­year variable compensation (bonus) –
components                     effect, non­stock­based                  cash component 2                                                                                              459,642        1,070,035                                                16,598        1,046,148
total compensation                                                                                                                                                                   3,326,228       3,283,905                                               111,135        3,269,556


     1   fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equiva­   3   the figures for individual maximums for multi­            (2013: € 1,058,299), prof. dr. hermann requardt            6   the monetary values referred to a 100 % target attainment               excluding fringe benefits and pension benefit commitments.      10   in compensation for the forfeiture of stock, pension bene­
         lent, of non­monetary benefits and other perqui­         year variable compensation reflect the possible           € 1,254,756 (2013: € 1,686,929), prof. dr. siegfried           amounted to € 4,970,916 (2013: € 6,197,430). the following              the maximum amount, at 1.7 times target compensation                 fits, health benefits and transitional remuneration from her
         sites, such as provision of company cars in the          maximum value in accordance with the maximum              russwurm € 1,118,839 (2013: € 1,653,844), and                  amounts pertained to the members of the managing board:                 (base compensation, target amount for bonus and target               former employer, the supervisory board granted ms. davis
         amount of €181,638 (2013: €239,301), contributions       amount agreed for fiscal 2014, that is 300 % of           dr. ralf p. thomas € 446,570 (2013: € 19,572). the             joe kaeser € 950,022 (2013: € 887,577), dr. roland busch                amount for stock­based compensation) is less than the total          a one­time amount of € 5,491,229. this amount will be
         toward the cost of insurance in the amount of            the applicable target amount.                             corresponding expense, determined in the same                  € 500,027 (2013: € 500,000), lisa davis € 907,076 (2013: € 0),          of the individual contractual caps for performance­based             provided 20 % in cash, 30 % in the form of siemens stock
         € 71,776 (2013: € 88,827), reimbursement of fees                                                                   way, for former managing board members was as                  klaus helmrich € 500,027 (2013: € 500,000), prof. dr.                   components.                                                          awards, and the remaining 50 % as a special contribution
                                                              4   the expenses recognized for stock­based compen­
         for legal advice, tax advice and accommodation                                                                     follows: brigitte ederer € 35,373 (2013: € 3,062,678),         hermann requardt € 625,034 (2013: € 625,041), prof. dr.                                                                                      to the pension plan.
                                                                  sation (bonus awards and stock awards) and for                                                                                                                                              8    the total compensation reflects the current fair value of
         and moving expenses, including any taxes that                                                                      barbara kux € 1,971,611 (2013: € 1,566,960), peter             siegfried russwurm € 500,027 (2013: € 625,041), and dr.
                                                                  the share matching plan for members of the man­                                                                                                                                                  stock­based compensation components on the award date.          11 the supervisory board increased the annual target amount for
         have been assumed in this regard as well as costs                                                                  löscher € 107,733 (2013: € 8,261,949), peter y.                ralf p. thomas € 500,027 (2013: € 18,117). the corresponding
                                                                  aging board in accordance with ifrs in fiscal 2014                                                                                                                                               on the basis of the current monetary values of stock­based         the monetary value of the stock awards commitment for fiscal
         connected with preventive medical examinations,                                                                    solmssen € 3,430,484 (2013: € 1,566,874), and                  monetary values for former managing board members were
                                                                  and 2013 amounted to €16,141,235 and €23,160,536,                                                                                                                                                compensation components, total compensation amounted               2014 by 25 % to € 1,250,000 for prof. dr. hermann requardt.
         in the amount of € 194,498 (2013: € 176,221).                                                                      dr. michael süß € 2,742,885 (2013: € 1,091,934).               as follows: brigitte ederer € 0 (2013: € 500,000), barbara kux
                                                                  respectively. the following amounts pertained to                                                                                                                                                 to € 29,109,709 (2013: € 34,236,151).
                                                                                                                                                                                           € 63,913 (2013: € 500,000), peter y. solmssen € 125,007 (2013:                                                                          12   brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board effective
     2 the supervisory board adjusted the bonus payout            the members of the managing board in fiscal 2014:      5 for stock awards for which the target attainment
                                                                                                                                                                                           € 500,000), and dr. michael süß € 299,756 (2013: € 500,000).       9    the total compensation of € 34.58 million for the prior year         at the end of the day on september 30, 2013. according
       amount resulting from target attainment individu­          joe kaeser € 1,822,932 (2013: € 2,099,925), dr. ro­      depends on the eps for the past three fiscal years,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   also includes the fiscal 2013 compensation of € 5,604,567 for        to the provisions of her contract, the variable compensation
       ally downward by 10 % for dr. süß.                         land busch € 922,535 (2013: € 1,091,572), lisa davis     and for bonus awards, the fair value at the date of         7   the total maximum compensation for fiscal 2014 represents
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   former managing board member peter löscher.                          (bonus) for fiscal 2013 was granted entirely in cash, and the
                                                                  € 1,337,996 (2013: € 0), klaus helmrich € 949,521        award is equivalent to the respective monetary value.           the contractual maximum amount for overall compensation,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        siemens stock awards for fiscal 2013 were settled in cash.

                                              klaus helmrich                                    prof. dr. hermann requardt 11
                                member of the managing board                     member with responsibilities for sector portfolio

       fy 2013          fy 2014          fy 2014          fy 2014         fy 2013           fy 2014          fy 2014           fy 2014
                                           (min)            (max)                                              (min)             (max)

     900,000         998,400          998,400          998,400        967,500            998,400           998,400           998,400
      68,329           62,457           62,457           62,457           65,544           83,589            83,589            83,589
     968,329       1,060,857        1,060,857        1,060,857       1,033,044        1,081,989         1,081,989         1,081,989

     450,000         748,800                   0     1,797,120        483,750            748,800                     0    1,797,120
 1,545,347         1,163,786                   0     3,748,800       1,934,354        1,359,243                      0    4,498,800
     427,613         348,775                   0       748,800        537,124            340,461                     0       748,800


     590,020         480,000                   0     1,500,000        737,545            600,018                     0    1,875,000
     527,714         335,011                   0     1,500,000        659,685            418,764                     0    1,875,000
 2,963,676         2,973,443        1,060,857        5,094,560       3,451,148        3,190,032         1,081,989         5,519,560
     520,698         520,994          520,994          520,994        499,761            539,849           539,849           539,849
 3,484,374         3,494,437        1,581,851        5,615,554       3,950,909        3,729,881         1,621,838         6,059,409




     427,574       1,046,148                                          537,110         1,021,363
 2,941,250         3,270,791                                         3,504,508        3,462,595




           brigitte ederer 12                   barbara kux 13            peter y. solmssen 14                  dr. michael süß 15
              member of the                     member of the                    member of the                       member of the
         managing board until              managing board until             managing board until                managing board until
          september 30, 2013                november 16, 2013                 december 31, 2013                         may 6, 2014
       fy 2013          fy 2014          fy 2013          fy 2014         fy 2013           fy 2014           fy 2013          fy 2014


     900,000                  0       900,000          118,680        900,000            232,200           967,500           598,503
      42,571                  0         68,048            4,909           32,977             8,130           36,158            23,060
     942,571                  0       968,048          123,589        932,977            240,330        1,003,658            621,563

     900,000                  0       450,000          118,680        450,000            174,150           483,750           598,503
 1,117,734                    0     1,545,347          104,204       1,545,347           272,167        1,577,456            488,586
             0                0       427,613                    0    427,613              68,396          459,722                    0


     590,020                  0       590,020            61,383       590,020            120,018           590,020           287,754
     527,714                  0       527,714            42,821       527,714              83,753          527,714           200,832
 2,960,305                    0     2,963,395          346,473       2,928,324           686,647        3,064,864         1,708,652
     525,886                  0       525,734          526,669        526,160            526,771           530,392           570,428
 3,486,191                    0     3,489,129          873,142       3,454,484        1,213,418         3,595,256         2,279,080




     855,148                  0       427,574          174,626        427,574            204,992           459,642           471,698
 2,915,453                    0     2,940,969          402,419       2,905,898           717,489        3,040,756         1,581,847


13   barbara kux resigned from the managing board effective at       15    dr. michael süß resigned from the managing board effective
     the end of the day on november 16, 2013.                              at the end of the day on may 6, 2014; his contract ended
                                                                           effective as of september 30, 2014. in addition to his total
14   peter y. solmssen resigned from the managing board effective
                                                                           compensation shown above as a member of the managing
     at the end of the day on december 31, 2013; his contract with
                                                                           board, dr. süß received the following compensation for the
     the company ends effective as of march 31, 2015. in addition
                                                                           remaining term of his contract from may 7 to september 30,
     to his total compensation as a member of the managing
                                                                           2014: fixed compensation of € 399,897, fringe benefits of
     board, as shown above, mr. solmssen received the following
                                                                           € 12,470, variable compensation (bonus) of € 315,171, and
     compensation in the months of january through septem­
                                                                           siemens stock awards in the amount of € 326,425. according
     ber 2014: fixed compensation of € 696,600, fringe benefits of
                                                                           to the provisions of the contract, the variable compensation
     € 160,717, variable compensation (bonus) of € 719,465, and
                                                                           (bonus) for fiscal 2014 will be granted entirely in cash and the
     siemens stock awards in the amount of € 611,240. he was
                                                                           siemens stock awards will be settled in cash in septem­            153
     also reimbursed for relocation expenses of € 270,211 plus the
                                                                           ber 2015 at the closing price of siemens stock in xetra trading
     associated tax of € 241,373, in accordance with the commit­
                                                                           on may 6, 2014.
     ment he received when he took office.

      allocations
      the following table shows allocations during or for fiscal 2014,                                in deviation from the multi-year variable compensation granted
      as the case may be, for fixed compensation, fringe benefits,                                    for fiscal 2014 and shown above, this table includes the actual
      one-year variable compensation, and multi-year variable com-                                    figure for multi-year variable compensation granted in previous
      pensation – broken down by the relevant years for which they                                    years and allocated in fiscal 2014.
      were subscribed, as well as the expense of pension benefits.

            managing board members serving as of september 30, 2014

                                                                                                                                                                                  joe kaeser
                                                                                                                                                                            president and ceo



       (amounts in €)                                                                                                                                               fy 2013             fy 2014
       non­performance­                                                              fixed compensation (base compensation)                                    1,113,750           1,845,000
       based components                                                              fringe benefits 1                                                             71,843               95,184
                                                                                     total                                                                     1,185,593           1,940,184
       performance­based             without long­term incentive                     one­year variable compensation (bonus) –
       components                    effect, non­stock­based                         cash component 2                                                             558,849          2,016,262
                                     with long­term incentive                        multi­year variable compensation                                          1,426,193           1,594,910
                                     effect, stock­based                                siemens stock awards (restriction period: 2010 – 2013)                             0       1,392,062
                                                                                        siemens stock awards (restriction period: 2009 – 2012)                 1,299,629                       0
                                                                                        share matching plan (vesting period: 2011 – 2013)                                  0          202,848
                                                                                        share matching plan (vesting period: 2010 – 2012)                         126,564                      0
                                                                                     other 3                                                                               0            65,704
                                                                                     total                                                                     3,170,635           5,617,060
                                                                                     service cost                                                                 504,323          1,058,566
                                                                                     total (gcgc)                                                              3,674,958           6,675,626




            managing board members serving as of september 30, 2014

                                                                                                                                                                         dr. ralf p. thomas
                                                                                                                                                                                             cfo


       (amounts in €)                                                                                                                                               fy 2013             fy 2014
       non­performance­                                                              fixed compensation (base compensation)                                        34,938             998,400
       based components                                                              fringe benefits 1                                                               2,465              61,222
                                                                                     total                                                                         37,403          1,059,622
       performance­based             without long­term incentive                     one­year variable compensation (bonus) –
       components                    effect, non­stock­based                         cash component 2                                                              16,598          1,046,148
                                     with long­term incentive                        multi­year variable compensation                                                      0          534,592
                                     effect, stock­based                                siemens stock awards (restriction period: 2010 – 2013)                             0          519,851
                                                                                        siemens stock awards (restriction period: 2009 – 2012)                             0                   0
                                                                                        share matching plan (vesting period: 2011 – 2013)                                  0            14,741
                                                                                        share matching plan (vesting period: 2010 – 2012)                                  0                   0
                                                                                     other 3                                                                               0            21,619
                                                                                     total                                                                         54,001          2,661,981
                                                                                     service cost                                                                 208,034             230,055
                                                                                     total (gcgc)                                                                 262,035          2,892,036


            1   fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivalent, of      downward by 10 % for dr. süß. the cash component       4   in compensation for the forfeiture of stock, pension
                non­monetary benefits and other perquisites, such as           of one­year variable compensation (bonus) presented        benefits, health benefits and transitional remuneration
                provision of company cars in the amount of € 181,638           above therefore represents the amount awarded for          from her former employer, the supervisory board
                (2013: € 239,301), contributions toward the cost of            fiscal 2014; which will be paid out in january 2015.       granted ms. davis a one­time amount of € 5,491,229.
                insurance in the amount of € 71,776 (2013: € 88,827),                                                                     this amount will be provided 20 % in cash, 30 % in the
                                                                            3 the “other” item includes the adjustment of the 2010
                reimbursement of fees for legal advice, tax advice and                                                                    form of siemens stock awards and the remaining 50 %
                                                                              siemens stock awards in accordance with section 23
                accommodation and moving expenses, including any                                                                          as a special contribution to the pension plan. the cash
                                                                              and section 125 of the german transformation act
                taxes that have been assumed in this regard as well as                                                                    component will be paid in december 2014.
                                                                              (umwandlungsgesetz) because of the spin­off of
                costs connected with preventive medical examinations,
                                                                              osram. for ms. davis, “other” represents the cash       5 brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board effec­
                in the amount of € 194,498 (2013: € 176,221).
                                                                              component of the compensatory payment that will           tive at the end of the day on september 30, 2013. accord­
            2   the supervisory board adjusted the bonus payout               be paid in december 2014.                                 ing to the provisions of her contract, her variable compen­
                amount resulting from target attainment individually                                                                    sation (bonus) for fiscal 2013 was granted entirely in cash.


154

               dr. roland busch                               lisa davis 4                      klaus helmrich          prof. dr. hermann requardt prof. dr. siegfried russwurm
      member with responsibilities           member with responsibilities       member of the managing board                member with responsibilities           member with responsibilities
              for sector portfolio                   for sector portfolio                                                           for sector portfolio                   for sector portfolio
                                                   since august 1, 2014
         fy 2013             fy 2014             fy 2013             fy 2014            fy 2013             fy 2014             fy 2013             fy 2014          fy 2013           fy 2014
       967,500            998,400                       –         166,400            900,000             998,400             967,500             998,400           967,500           998,400
        48,591              51,089                      –           14,542             68,329              62,457              65,544              83,589            42,134           43,731
     1,016,091          1,049,489                       –         180,942            968,329           1,060,857           1,033,044           1,081,989          1,009,634        1,042,131

       433,819          1,209,836                       –         124,800            427,574           1,046,148             537,110           1,021,363           459,642         1,070,035
       183,382            268,614                       –                  0         292,379             366,548           1,381,376           1,518,929          1,342,022        1,392,062
                0         268,614                       –                  0                   0         366,317                       0       1,392,062                   0       1,392,062
       178,145                      0                   –                  0         292,379                       0       1,299,629                       0      1,299,629                  0
                0                   0                   –                  0                   0               231                     0         126,867                   0                 0
          5,237                     0                   –                  0                   0                   0           81,747                      0         42,393                  0
                0           10,807                      –       1,098,246                      0           14,749                      0           62,071                  0          56,005
     1,633,292          2,538,746                       –       1,403,988           1,688,282          2,488,302           2,951,530           3,684,352          2,811,298        3,560,233
       520,736            561,000                       –       2,818,722            520,698             520,994             499,761             539,849           519,915           560,147
     2,154,028          3,099,746                       –       4,222,710           2,208,980          3,009,296           3,451,291           4,224,201          3,331,213        4,120,380




                brigitte ederer 5                           barbara kux 6                  peter y. solmssen 7                        dr. michael süß 8
    member of the managing board          member of the managing board          member of the managing board             member of the managing board
        until september 30, 2013               until november 16, 2013               until december 31, 2013                          until may 6, 2014
         fy 2013             fy 2014             fy 2013             fy 2014            fy 2013             fy 2014             fy 2013             fy 2014
       900,000                      0         900,000             118,680            900,000             232,200             967,500             598,503
        42,571                      0           68,048                4,909            32,977                8,130             36,158              23,060
       942,571                      0         968,048             123,589            932,977             240,330           1,003,658             621,563

       855,148                      0         427,574             174,626            427,574             204,992             459,642             471,698
       227,441            509,312           1,192,671           1,392,062           1,299,629          1,392,062             477,239             523,175
                0         509,312                       0       1,392,062                      0       1,392,062                       0         523,175
       227,441                      0       1,137,126                      0        1,299,629                      0         477,239                       0
                0                   0                   0                  0                   0                   0                   0                   0
                0                   0           55,545                     0                   0                   0                   0                   0
                0                   0                   0           56,005                     0           56,005                      0           21,048
     2,025,160            509,312           2,588,293           1,746,282           2,660,180          1,893,389           1,940,539           1,637,484
       525,886                      0         525,734             526,669            526,160             526,771             530,392             570,428
     2,551,046            509,312           3,114,027           2,272,951           3,186,340          2,420,160           2,470,931           2,207,912


6   barbara kux resigned from the managing board effective at the end of        8    dr. michael süß resigned from the managing board effective at the end
    the day on november 16, 2013.                                                    of the day on may 6, 2014; his contract ended effective as of septem­
                                                                                     ber 30, 2014. according to his provisions of the contract, his variable
7 peter y. solmssen resigned from the managing board effective at the end
                                                                                     compensation (bonus) for fiscal 2014 will be granted entirely in cash.
  of the day on december 31, 2013; his contract with the company ends
                                                                                     in addition to the compensation for fiscal 2014 for his activity as member
  effective as of march 31, 2015. in addition to the compensation for his
                                                                                     of the managing board presented above, dr. süß received the following
  activity as a member of the managing board in fiscal 2014, as shown above,
                                                                                     compensation for the remaining term of his employment agreement
  mr. solmssen received the following compensation for the months of
                                                                                     from may 7 to september 30, 2014: fixed compensation of € 399,897,
  january through september 2014: fixed compensation of €696,600, fringe
                                                                                     fringe benefits of €12,470 and variable compensation (bonus) of €315,171.
  benefits of € 160,717, variable compensation (bonus) of € 719,465 and
  siemens stock awards in the amount of €611,240. he was also reimbursed
  for relocation expenses of €270,211 plus the associated tax of €241,373, in
  accordance with the commitment he received when he took office.


                                                                                                                                                                                                  155

      pension benefit commitments                                                                                     the contributions under the bsav are added to the personal
      for fiscal 2014, the members of the managing board were                                                         pension accounts each january following the close of the fiscal
      granted contributions under the bsav totaling € 5.1 million                                                     year, with value date on january 1. until the beneficiary’s time
      (2013: € 6.4 million), based on a resolution of the supervisory                                                 of retirement, the pension account is credited with an annual
      board dated november 5, 2014. of this amount, € 5.0 million                                                     interest payment (guaranteed interest), currently 1.75 %, on jan-
      (2013: € 6.3 million), related to contributions to their personal                                               uary 1 of each year.
      pension accounts and the remaining € 0.1 million (2013:
      € 0.1 million) to funding of pension commitments earned prior                                                   the following table shows individualized details of the contri-
      to transfer to the bsav.                                                                                        butions (additions) under the bsav for fiscal 2014 as well as the
                                                                                                                      defined benefit obligations for the pension commitments.



                                                                                                                                 total contributions 1 for             defined benefit obligation 2 for all pension
                                                                                                                                                                  commitments excluding deferred compensation 3
       (amounts in €)                                                                                               fy 2014                        fy 2013                       fy 2014                      fy 2013
       managing board members
       serving as of september 30, 2014
       joe kaeser                                                                                             1,033,200                       1,033,200                     7,174,641                    5,580,345
       dr. roland busch                                                                                          559,104                         541,800                    2,769,337                    2,008,718
       lisa davis 4                                                                                                93,184                                –                  2,818,7222                                  –
       klaus helmrich                                                                                            559,104                         504,000                    3,047,911                    2,248,901
       prof. dr. hermann requardt                                                                                559,104                         541,800                    6,273,529                    5,094,071
       prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                                                              559,104                         541,800                    4,390,368                    3,490,629
       dr. ralf p. thomas                                                                                        559,104                          19,565                    2,742,051                    1,970,651

       former members of the managing board
       brigitte ederer 5                                                                                                   –                     504,000                                 –                2,446,9512
       barbara kux 6                                                                                               66,461                        504,000                    1,499,0342                    2,740,4792
       peter y. solmssen 7                                                                                       520,128                         504,000                   18,343,7882                  15,750,8832
       dr. michael süß     8
                                                                                                                 559,104                         541,800                    3,903,372                    2,353,756
       total                                                                                                  5,067,597                       5,235,965                    52,962,753                   43,685,384


             1   the expenses (service cost) recognized in accordance                      for peter y. solmssen, of € 812,700 (2013: € 0) for dr. mi­    5    brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board
                 with ifrs in fiscal 2014 for managing board members’                      chael süß, and of € 2,745,615 (2013: € 0) for lisa davis.           effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
                 entitlements under the bsav in fiscal 2014 amounted to
                                                                                  3        deferred compensation totals € 10,057,923 (2013:               6 barbara kux resigned from the managing board effective
                 € 7,913,201 (2013: € 6,053,355).
                                                                                           €8,595,135), including €3,171,486 for joe kaeser (2013:          at the end of the day on november 16, 2013.
             2   the defined benefit obligations reflect one­time special                  €2,914,462), €302,595 for klaus helmrich (2013:
                                                                                                                                                          7 peter y. solmssen resigned from the managing board
                 contributions to the bsav of € 3,558,315 (2013:                           €276,893), €1,381,365 for prof. dr. hermann requardt
                                                                                                                                                            at the end of the day on december 31, 2013; his employ­
                 € 22,480,000) for new appointments from outside the                       (2013: €1,275,259), and €49,732 for dr. ralf p. thomas
                                                                                                                                                            ment agreement ends effective march 31, 2015.
                 company, as well as special contributions in connection                   (2013: €46,155) as well as for former managing board
                 with departures from the managing board: in the                           members: €4,697,955 for barbara kux (2013: €4,082,366),        8    dr. michael süß resigned from the managing board
                 amount of €0 (2013: €10,740,000) for peter löscher, of                    and €454,790 for peter y. solmssen (2013: €0).                      at the end of the day on may 6, 2014; his employment
                 € 0 (2013: € 882,000) for brigitte ederer, of € 0 (2013:                                                                                      agreement ended effective september 30, 2014.
                                                                                  4        lisa davis was elected a full member of the managing
                 € 340,000) for barbara kux, of € 0 (2013: € 10,518,000)
                                                                                           board effective august 1, 2014.




      former members of the managing board and their surviving                                                        employment contract – that is, from may 7 to september 30,
      dependents received emoluments within the meaning of sec-                                                       2014 – as well as a special contribution to the bsav. dr. süß
      tion 314 para. 1 no. 6 b of the german commercial code totaling                                                 received 5,429 stock awards for the period from may 7 through
      € 24.2 million (2013: € 33.1 million) in fiscal 2014. this figure in-                                           september 30, 2014, which will be settled in cash in septem-
      cludes the compensation for former managing board member                                                        ber 2015 according to the provisions of his contract and in
      peter y. solmssen for the period from january through septem-                                                   connection with the mutually agreed-upon termination of his
      ber 2014, together with reimbursement of relocation costs and                                                   managing board membership. mr. solmssen received 10,166
      the associated tax. furthermore, it includes the compensatory                                                   stock awards and 3,317 bonus awards for the period from jan-
      payment connected with the mutually agreed-upon termina-                                                        uary through september 2014. other than this, former manag-
      tion of the managing board membership of dr. michael süß as                                                     ing board members and their surviving dependents received no
      of may 6, 2014, the compensation for the remaining term of his                                                  (2013: 5,615) stock awards.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                                        131       b.       corporate governance
156
                                                                            132       b.1      corporate governance report                               144    b.4   compensation report
                                                                            136       b.2      corporate governance statement pursuant to                             (part of the combined management report)
                                                                                               section 289a of the german commercial code                165    b.5   takeover­relevant information (pursuant to
                                                                                               (part of the combined management report)                               sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                            138       b.3      compliance report                                                      german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                               (part of the combined management report)                               (part of the combined management report)

the defined benefit obligation (dbo) of all pension commit-                                                 b.4.1.3 additional information
ments to former members of the managing board and their                                                     on stock-based compensation instruments
surviving dependents as of september 30, 2014, amounted                                                     in fiscal 2014
to €234.4 (2013: € 192.5) million. this figure is included in                                               this section provides information concerning the stock commit-
   note 22 post-employment benefits in    d.6 notes to consoli-                                             ments held by members of the managing board that were com-
dated financial statements .                                                                                ponents of stock-based compensation in fiscal 2014 and prior
                                                                                                            years, and about the managing board members’ entitlements to
other                                                                                                       matching shares under the siemens share matching plan.
no loans or advances from the company are provided to mem-
bers of the managing board.                                                                                 stock commitments
                                                                                                            the following table shows the changes in the stock commit-
                                                                                                            ments (bonus awards and stock awards) held by managing
                                                                                                            board members in fiscal 2014:



                                                   balance at beginning of                               granted during fiscal year 1          vested and          forfeited               balance at end of
                                                                fiscal 2014                                                                    transferred            during                    fiscal 2014 2
                                                                                                                                                    during        fiscal year
                                                                                                                                                fiscal year
                                                                                                          forfeitable commitments
                                                                                                                    of stock awards
                                                      non­                                    non­           (target           (target       commit­                                    non­
                                                forfeitable       forfeitable           forfeitable      attainment       attainment         ments of                             forfeitable    forfeitable
                                                  commit­           commit­               commit­        depending        depending            bonus               commit­          commit­        commit­
                                                  ments of          ments of              ments of        on eps for        on future      awards and              ments of         ments of       ments of
                                                     bonus             stock                 bonus        past three        stock per­          stock                stock             bonus          stock
 (amounts in number of units)                      awards            awards                awards       fiscal years)      formance)          awards                awards           awards        awards 3
 managing board
 members serving as of
 september 30, 2014
 joe kaeser                                        24,819              67,437               6,910           12,949           10,974              14,661                    –        31,729          76,699
 dr. roland busch                                  16,180              33,795               5,364            7,295             6,182               2,829                   –        21,544          44,443
 lisa davis 4                                              –                     –                –                –                 –                     –               –               –               –
 klaus helmrich                                    17,122              35,695               5,287            7,295             6,182               3,858                   –        22,409          45,314
 prof. dr. hermann requardt                        25,762              52,766               6,641            9,119             7,728             14,661                    –        32,403          54,952
 prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                      24,819              52,766               5,684            9,119             7,728             14,661                    –        30,503          54,952
 dr. ralf p. thomas                                        –           22,241                 206            3,474             2,944               5,475                   –            206         23,184

 former members
 of the managing board
 brigitte ederer 5                                 24,819              43,469                     –                –                 –             5,364                   –        24,819          38,105
 barbara kux 6                                     24,819              52,766               5,287            7,295             6,182             14,661                    –        30,106          51,582
 peter y. solmssen 7                               24,819              52,766               5,287            7,295             6,182             14,661                    –        30,106          51,582
 dr. michael süß 8                                 17,122              38,432               5,684            7,295             6,182               5,510                   –        22,806          46,399
 total                                           200,281           452,133                46,350            71,136           60,284              96,341                    –       246,631        487,212


       1   the weighted average fair value as of the grant date for               2014 remains in effect in full on the basis of the agree­       6   barbara kux resigned from the managing board effective
           fiscal 2014 was €82.49 per granted share.                              ment in connection with her departure from the manag­               at the end of the day on november 16, 2013.
                                                                                  ing board; the number of stock awards linked to future
       2   amounts do not include stock commitments (bonus                                                                                        7   peter y. solmssen resigned from the managing board
                                                                                  stock performance will be revised on the basis of actual
           awards and stock awards) granted in november 2014                                                                                          effective at the end of the day on december 31, 2013;
                                                                                  target attainment after the end of the restriction period.
           for fiscal 2014; for details, see the next page. however,                                                                                  his employment contract ends effective march 31, 2015.
           these amounts may include stock awards received as                4    lisa davis was elected a full member of the managing
                                                                                                                                                  8   dr. michael süß resigned from the managing board
           compensation by the managing board member before                       board effective august 1, 2014.
                                                                                                                                                      effective at the end of the day on may 6, 2014; his
           joining the managing board.
                                                                             5    brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board                    employment agreement ended effective september 30,
       3   the number of forfeitable commitments of stock awards                  effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.              2014.
           shown here for brigitte ederer as of the end of fiscal




171   c.   combined management report                                  247   d.      consolidated financial statements                          337   e.       additional information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                157

      the following table shows the stock (bonus awards and stock
      awards) awarded in november 2014 for fiscal 2014:



                                                                                                                                                                                       awarded for fiscal 1
                                                                                       non­forfeitable commitments                                            forfeitable commitments of stock awards
                                                                                                    of bonus awards
                                                                                                                                (target attainment depending              (target attainment depending
       (amounts in number of units)                                                                                          on eps for past three fiscal years)           on future stock performance)

       managing board members
       serving as of september 30, 2014
       joe kaeser                                                                                              9,296                                      12,615                                  13,140
       dr. roland busch                                                                                        5,578                                       6,639                                    6,916
       lisa davis 2                                                                                               576                                     12,044                                  12,546
       klaus helmrich                                                                                          4,824                                       6,639                                    6,916
       prof. dr. hermann requardt                                                                              4,709                                       8,299                                    8,645
       prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                                                            4,934                                       6,639                                    6,916
       dr. ralf p. thomas                                                                                      4,824                                       6,639                                    6,916

       former members of the managing board
       brigitte ederer 3                                                                                             0                                         0                                          0
       barbara kux 4                                                                                                 0                                      849                                       884
       peter y. solmssen 5                                                                                        946                                      1,660                                    1,729
       dr. michael süß 6                                                                                             0                                     3,980                                    4,146
       total                                                                                                 35,687                                       66,003                                  68,754


             1   see the information on     pages 151 - 153 for the             4    barbara kux resigned from the managing board effective     6   dr. michael süß resigned from the managing board
                 corresponding fair values.                                          at the end of the day on november 16, 2013.                    effective at the end of the day on may 6, 2014; his em­
                                                                                                                                                    ployment agreement ended effective september 30,
             2   lisa davis was elected a full member of the managing           5    peter y. solmssen resigned from the managing board
                                                                                                                                                    2014. see the information on      page 153 for the stock
                 board effective august 1, 2014.                                     effective at the end of the day on december 31, 2013;
                                                                                                                                                    awards granted for the remaining term of his contract
                                                                                     his employment contract ends effective march 31, 2015.
             3   brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board                                                                                   for the period from may 7 through september 30, 2014.
                                                                                     see the information on      page 153 for the stock
                 effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
                                                                                     awards committed for the months of january through
                                                                                     september 2014.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                                      131   b.      corporate governance
158
                                                                          132   b.1     corporate governance report                           144   b.4    compensation report
                                                                          136   b.2     corporate governance statement pursuant to                         (part of the combined management report)
                                                                                        section 289a of the german commercial code            165   b.5    takeover­relevant information (pursuant to
                                                                                        (part of the combined management report)                           sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                          138   b.3     compliance report                                                  german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                        (part of the combined management report)                           (part of the combined management report)

shares from the share matching plan
in fiscal 2011, the members of the managing board were                                                   share of siemens stock for every three siemens shares acquired
entitled for the last time to participate in the siemens share                                           and continuously held under the plan, provided the partici-
matching plan, and under the plan were entitled to invest up to                                          pants were employed without interruption at siemens ag or a
50 % of the annual gross amount of their variable cash compen-                                           siemens company until the end of the vesting period. the fol-
sation (bonus) determined for fiscal 2010 in siemens shares.                                             lowing table shows the development of the matching share
after expiration of a vesting period of approximately three                                              entitlements of the individual members of the managing board
years, the plan participants will receive one free matching                                              in fiscal 2014.



                                                               balance at beginning                               due during                      forfeited during                    balance at end
                                                                     of fiscal 2014 1                              fiscal year                           fiscal year                  of fiscal 2014 1, 2
                                                                      entitlement to                         entitlement to                       entitlement to                      entitlement to
 (amounts in number of units)                                        matching shares                        matching shares                      matching shares                     matching shares

 managing board members
 serving as of september 30, 2014
 joe kaeser                                                                     2,216                                  2,216                                                                           –
 dr. roland busch                                                                     –                                      –                                    –                                    –
 lisa davis 3                                                                         –                                      –                                    –                                    –
 klaus helmrich                                                                       3                                      3                                    –                                    –
 prof. dr. hermann requardt                                                     1,386                                  1,386                                      –                                    –
 prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                                         –                                      –                                    –                                    –
 dr. ralf p. thomas                                                             2,846                                    161                                      –                             2,685

 former members
 of the managing board
 brigitte ederer 4                                                                    –                                      –                                    –                                    –
 barbara kux 5                                                                        –                                      –                                    –                                    –
 peter y. solmssen 6                                                                  –                                      –                                    –                                    –
 dr. michael süß 7                                                                    –                                      –                                    –                                    –
 total                                                                          6,451                                  3,766                                      0                             2,685


       1   amounts may include entitlements acquired before the                € 0), and dr. michael süß € 0 (2013: € 0). the above fair     5   barbara kux resigned from the managing board effective
           member joined the managing board.                                   values also take into account that the shares acquired            at the end of the day on november 16, 2013.
                                                                               under the base share program as part of the share
       2   the entitlements of the managing board members                                                                                    6   peter y. solmssen resigned from the managing board
                                                                               matching plan were provided with a company subsidy
           serving as of september 30, 2014, had the following fair                                                                              effective at the end of the day on december 31, 2013;
                                                                               (for additional information on the base share program
           values: joe kaeser € 0 (2013: € 146,901), dr. roland busch                                                                            his employment contract ends effective march 31, 2015.
                                                                               see     note 32 share-based payment in         d.6 notes
           € 0 (2013: € 0), lisa davis € 0 (2013: € 0), klaus helmrich
                                                                               to consolidated financial statements ).                       7   dr. michael süß resigned from the managing board
           € 0 (2013: € 527), prof. dr. hermann requardt € 0 (2013:
                                                                                                                                                 effective at the end of the day on may 6, 2014; his
           € 92,011), prof. dr. siegfried russwurm € 0 (2013: € 0) and    3    lisa davis was elected a full member of the managing
                                                                                                                                                 employment agreement ended effective september 30,
           dr. ralf p. thomas € 133,392 (2013: € 152,696). the enti­           board effective august 1, 2014.
                                                                                                                                                 2014.
           tlements of former managing board members have the
                                                                          4    brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board
           following fair values: brigitte ederer € 0 (2013: € 0),
                                                                               effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
           barbara kux € 0 (2013: € 0), peter y. solmssen € 0 (2013:




171   c.   combined management report                               247   d.      consolidated financial statements                        337   e.    additional information
                                                                                                                                                                                                            159

      share ownership guidelines
      the deadlines by which the individual members of the man-                                             of siemens shares that were held by managing board mem-
      aging board must provide first-time proof of compliance with                                          bers in office at september 30, 2014, as of the deadline in
      the siemens share ownership guidelines vary from member                                               march 2014 for showing compliance with the share owner-
      to member, depending on when the member was appointed                                                 ship guidelines, and that are to be held permanently with a
      to the managing board. the following table shows the number                                           view to future deadlines.




                                                                                                                                                        obligations under share ownership guidelines
                                                                                                                          required                                                               proven
                                                              percentage of base                                                       percentage of base
       (amounts in number of units or €)                          compensation 1                      value 1   number of shares 2         compensation 1                 value 2   number of shares 3

       managing board members serving as
       of september 30, 2014, and required
       to show proof as of march 14, 2014
       joe kaeser                                                          300%                3,103,125                   32,998                  856%             8,858,756                  94,202
       prof. dr. hermann requardt                                          200%                1,819,250                   19,345                  680%             6,184,635                  65,766
       prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                        200%                1,819,250                   19,345                  825%             7,504,674                  79,803
       total                                                                                   6,741,625                   71,688                                 22,548,065                  239,771


             1   the amount of the obligation is based on a member’s           2    based on the average xetra opening price of €94.04        3   as per march 14, 2014 (date of proof), including bonus
                 average base compensation for the four years prior to              for the fourth quarter of 2013 (october – december).          awards.
                 the respective date of proof.




      the following table shows the proof-of-compliance obligations
      of the other managing board members in view of the share
      ownership guidelines:



                                                                                                                                                        obligations under share ownership guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                               required
                                                                                                                                                                                    due date for initial
                                                                                                                percentage of base                                                      measurement
       (amounts in number of units or €)                                                                            compensation 1                 value 1    number of shares 2         of adherence

       managing board members required to show proof in subsequent years
       dr. roland busch                                                                                                      200%            1,874,400                  19,932           march 2016
       lisa davis                                                                                                            200%            1,996,800                  21,234           march 2019
       klaus helmrich                                                                                                        200%            1,828,114                  19,440           march 2016
       dr. ralf p. thomas                                                                                                    200%            1,996,800                  21,234           march 2018
       total                                                                                                                                 7,696,114                  81,840


             1   the amount of the obligation is based on a member’s                based on average base compensation since the mem­         2   based on the average xetra opening price of €94.04 for
                 average base compensation for the four years prior to              ber’s initial appointment.                                    the fourth quarter of 2013 (october – december).
                 the respective date of proof. the amount shown here is




      108   a.   to our shareholders                                     131   b.      corporate governance
160
                                                                         132   b.1     corporate governance report                          144   b.4    compensation report
                                                                         136   b.2     corporate governance statement pursuant to                        (part of the combined management report)
                                                                                       section 289a of the german commercial code           165   b.5    takeover­relevant information (pursuant to
                                                                                       (part of the combined management report)                          sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                         138   b.3     compliance report                                                 german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                       (part of the combined management report)                          (part of the combined management report)

b.4.1.4 remuneration system for the                                                 offered in the market. the supervisory board has maintained
managing board from fiscal 2015 onward                                              the time-tested division of compensation into non-perfor-
at its meeting on september 24, 2014, the supervisory board                         mance-based and performance-based components, but in the
decided to introduce a new, simplified remuneration system for                      future the individual components of compensation – base com-
the managing board as of october 1, 2014. in past years, the                        pensation, variable compensation (bonus) and long-term,
remuneration system for the managing board was modified a                           stock-based compensation – will be weighted equally. this
number of times on the basis of new regulatory and statutory                        equal weighting will also be applied in setting the target cate-
requirements. the system grew more complex as a result.                             gories for variable compensation (bonus).
establishing transparency about the remuneration of the man-
aging board is an important element of good corporate gover-                        the complexity of the former system also resulted from the
nance. for that reason, in its revision of the remuneration                         way in which variable compensation (bonus) was granted
system, the supervisory board has reduced the system’s com-                         partly in stock commitments, bonus awards, and from the di-
plexity to the necessary minimum. at the same time, the super-                      vided measurement of performance for long-term stock-based
visory board retained incentives for successful corporate man-                      compensation (stock awards). beginning with fiscal 2015, the
agement with an emphasis on sustainability and ensured that                         bonus will be paid in cash only. the stock awards will now be
the system would remain consistent with other remuneration                          measured only on the basis of one performance component.

       principal features of the new remuneration system for the managing board


                   sustainability                                        transparency                                  performance orientation

 the multi­year bases of measurement and long­        dividing compensation into three equally            variable compensation is linked
 term goals for variable components ensure and        weighted components, and the equal weighting        to the company’s success and
 encourage sustainable company development.           of three bases of measurement for the bonus,        to comparisons with competitors.
                                                      permit transparent, understandable communica­
                                                      tion of managing board remuneration.



              individual performance                                  ownership culture                                     appropriateness

 individual performance is rewarded by agreeing       granting a substantial portion of compensation      annual remuneration reviews – together with
 on individual targets and by the possibility for     as stock, together with the share ownership         contractually defined maximum amounts for
 the supervisory board to adjust the bonus as well    obligation, puts an emphasis on the ownership       variable compensation and for stock­based
 as by individualizable target amounts for stock­     culture within the company.                         components of compensation and compensation
 based compensation.                                                                                      overall – ensure that compensation is appropriate.




specifically, the following changes were adopted effective                          performance as well as targets like customer and employee
october 1, 2014:                                                                    satisfaction, innovation and sustainability. for fiscal 2015, the
                                                                                    target values for the earnings component will be set on a multi-
compensation structure. base compensation, variable com-                            year basis. target attainment for the bonus can still vary
pensation (bonus) and long-term stock-based compensation                            between 0 % and a ceiling (cap) of 200 %.
will each constitute approximately one-third of the target com-
pensation for all managing board members. the maximum                               after the end of the fiscal year, the supervisory board can still
amounts for stock commitments (stock awards), for bonus and                         decide, exercising its duty-bound discretion (pflichtgemäßes
for compensation overall that were introduced in fiscal 2014                        ermessen), to adjust bonus payout amounts by ± 20 % for all or
will remain fully in effect.                                                        some of the members of the managing board. thus the maxi-
                                                                                    mum amount of 240 % of the target amount applies for the
variable compensation (bonus). in the future, the bonus                             bonus. in deciding on a discretionary adjustment, the super-
will depend on an equal one-third weighting of target attain-                       visory board will take account not only of the company ’s eco-
ment in the target categories of capital efficiency, earnings and                   nomic situation and the individual performance of the various
individual targets. this weighting will give greater importance                     managing board members, but also of such factors as the
to the managing board members’ individual performance.                              results of an employee survey (global engagement survey) and
in deciding the individual targets, account will be taken of both                   a customer satisfaction survey (net promoter score). variable
business-related targets like market coverage and business                          compensation (bonus) will be granted entirely in cash.




171   c.   combined management report                247   d.   consolidated financial statements         337   e.   additional information
                                                                                                                                                               161

      long-term stock-based compensation. long-term stock-                                                 share ownership guidelines. the share ownership obli-
      based compensation will continue to be granted in the form of                                        gation for members of the managing board will remain un-
      forfeitable stock awards for siemens stock. to reflect a manag-                                      changed: 300 % of base compensation for the president and
      ing board member’s individual experience as well as the scope                                        ceo, 200 % of base compensation for the other members of the
      and demands of his or her function, the annual target amount                                         managing board during the four years prior to the relevant date
      for all managing board members, including the president and                                          of proof.
      ceo, can now be increased, on an individual basis, by as much
      as 75 % of the contractually agreed-upon target amount for one                                       compensatory payments in connection with termination
      fiscal year at a time. starting with fiscal 2015, this long-term                                     of managing board membership. the terms for compensa-
      stock-based compensation will be linked solely to the perfor-                                        tory payments will remain essentially unchanged. in particular,
      mance of siemens stock in comparison to competitors. the                                             the compensatory payment still cannot exceed the value of two
      supervisory board will also decide on a target system (target                                        years’ compensation. in the future, the compensatory and sev-
      value for 100 % and target curve) for the performance of                                             erance payments will be reduced by 10 % as a lump-sum allow-
      siemens stock relative to the stock of – at present – five compet-                                   ance for discounted values and for income earned elsewhere;
      itors: abb, general electric, rockwell, schneider and toshiba.                                       this reduction will apply only to the portion of the compensa-
      the change in stock price will be measured on the basis of a                                         tory or severance payment that was calculated without taking
      twelve-month reference period (compensation year) over three                                         account of the first six months of the remaining term of the
      years (performance period), while the four-year restriction pe-                                      managing board member’s contract.
      riod for stock awards will still apply unchanged. after this re-
      striction period expires, the supervisory board will determine                                       even after the adjustment of the remuneration system for the
      how much better or worse siemens stock has performed rela-                                           managing board, regulatory requirements will be met in full.
      tive to the stock of its competitors. this determination will yield                                  more than half of the variable compensation has a multi-year
      a target attainment of between 0 % and 200 % (cap). if target at-                                    basis. the new system continues to reward long-term commit-
      tainment is above 100 %, the members of the managing board                                           ment to and on behalf of the company as well as managing
      will receive an additional cash payment, the amount of which                                         board members’ participation in a sustained increase in the
      will be based on the outperformance. if target attainment is                                         company’s value.
      less than 100 %, a number of stock awards equivalent to the
      shortfall from the target will expire without replacement. all in
      all, the allocation by way of the stock awards will be limited to
      300 % of the target amount (maximum amount).

             remuneration system for managing board members as of fiscal 2015

      target compensation                                                               maximum amounts of compensation                                             share ownership guidelines




                                                                                                    stock­based
                                                                                                    components
                                                                                                    (stock awards):
                                                                                                    max. 300% of
                                                                                                    target amount



                                                                                                                                                                                         president
                                       long­term stock­based compensation                                                                                                                and ceo:
      stock­                           > target parameter: stock price                                                            compensation                                           3­times
                                         compared to 5 competitors                                                                overall                                                of base
      based                            > variability: 0 – 200%                                      bonus (cash):                 max. 1.7­times                                         compen­
      compen­                                                                                       0 – 200%                      of target                                              sation
      sation                                                                                        add. + 20%                    compensation
                                       variable compensation (bonus)                                adjustment
                                       > 3 targets – one third each:
                                         capital efficiency, profit, individual                                                                                                             managing
                                                                                                                                                                                            board
      cash                             > variability: 0 – 200%
                                                                                                                                                                                            member:
                                         add. ± 20% adjustment
      compen­                                                                                                                                                                               2­times
      sation                           base                                                         base                          base
                                                                                                                                                                                            of base
                                                                                                                                                                                            compen­
                                       compen­                                                      compen­                       compen­
                                       sation                                                       sation                        sation                                                    sation




                    performance­based component with deferred payout                              performance­based component
                    non­performance­based component                                               obligation to hold shares during term of office on the managing board




      108   a.   to our shareholders                                      131     b.    corporate governance
162
                                                                          132     b.1   corporate governance report                         144   b.4   compensation report
                                                                          136     b.2   corporate governance statement pursuant to                      (part of the combined management report)
                                                                                        section 289a of the german commercial code          165   b.5   takeover­relevant information (pursuant to
                                                                                        (part of the combined management report)                        sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                          138     b.3   compliance report                                               german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                        (part of the combined management report)                        (part of the combined management report)

b.4.2 remuneration of members
of the supervisory board


                                                                                                                    fy 2014                                                                   fy 2013
                                                                             additional                                                                   additional
                                                                        compensation             meeting                                             compensation          meeting
                                                        base com­       for committee         attendance                            base com­        for committee      attendance
 (amounts in €)                                         pensation                 work               fee               total        pensation                  work            fee               total

 supervisory board members
 serving as of september 30, 2014
 dr. gerhard cromme                                     280,000              280,000             55,500           615,500           280,000              280,000            57,000          617,000
 berthold huber 1                                       211,852                77,037            25,500           314,389           211,852                77,037           27,000          315,889
 werner wenning                                         211,852              134,815             39,000           385,667                98,000            28,000               7,500       133,500
 olaf bolduan 1, 2                                       35,000                        –           4,500           39,500                       –                 –                –                 –
 gerd von brandenstein                                  140,000                80,000            30,000           250,000           140,000                40,000           18,000          198,000
 michael diekmann                                       134,815                52,963            18,000           205,778           140,000                       –         13,500          153,500
 dr. hans michael gaul                                  140,000              160,000             30,000           330,000           140,000              160,000            39,000          339,000
 prof. dr. peter gruss                                  134,815                35,309            15,000           185,123           140,000                       –         15,000          155,000
 bettina haller 1                                       140,000                80,000            28,500           248,500           129,630                74,074           25,500          229,204
 hans­jürgen hartung 1                                  140,000                        –         13,500           153,500           129,630                       –         10,500          140,130
 robert kensbock 1                                      140,000              106,667             27,000           273,667           105,000                       –             7,500       112,500
 harald kern 1                                          140,000                76,667            25,500           242,167           140,000                30,000           16,500          186,500
 jürgen kerner 1                                        140,000              120,000             28,500           288,500           140,000              120,000            27,000          287,000
 dr. nicola leibinger­kammüller                         124,444                        –         10,500           134,944           134,815                       –         15,000          149,815
 gérard mestrallet                                      119,259                  5,679             7,500          132,438                98,000            28,000               7,500       133,500
 güler sabancı                                          129,630                        –         10,500           140,130                98,000                   –             6,000       104,000
 michael sigmund 3                                       81,667                        –           9,000           90,667                       –                 –                –                 –
 jim hagemann snabe                                     124,444                97,778            19,500           241,722                       –                 –                –                 –
 birgit steinborn 1                                     140,000              186,667             43,500           370,167           140,000              120,000            28,500          288,500
 sibylle wankel 1                                       140,000                40,000            21,000           201,000           140,000                40,000           22,500          202,500

 former supervisory board members
 dr. josef ackermann 4                                              –                  –                 –                 –        211,852              134,815            34,500          381,167
 lothar adler 1, 2                                       93,333              106,667             27,000           227,000           140,000              160,000            40,500          340,500
 prof. dr. rainer sieg 3                                 58,333                        –           4,500           62,833           140,000                       –         15,000          155,000
 total                                               2,999,444              1,640,247           493,500        5,133,191         2,896,779             1,291,926          433,500        4,622,2055


       1   both the employee representatives on the supervisory         2    olaf bolduan was appointed to the supervisory board by         4   dr. josef ackermann resigned from the supervisory
           board who represent the employees pursuant to section             court order as of july 11, 2014, succeeding lothar adler,          board as of the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
           3 para. 1 no. 1 of the german codetermination act                 who resigned from the supervisory board as of the end
                                                                                                                                            5   the total figure, compared to the amount of € 4,420,926
           (mitbestimmungsgesetz) and the representatives of the             of the day on may 31, 2014.
                                                                                                                                                presented in the 2013 compensation report, includes
           trade unions on the supervisory board declared their
                                                                        3    michael sigmund was appointed to the supervisory                   additional meeting attendance fees of € 433,500, but not
           readiness to transfer their compensation to the hans
                                                                             board by court order as of march 1, 2014, succeeding               the total compensation of €232,222 for former supervisory
           boeckler foundation, in accordance with the guidelines
                                                                             prof. dr. rainer sieg, who resigned from the supervisory           board members jean­louis beffa, werner mönius,
           of the confederation of german trade unions (dgb).
                                                                             board as of the end of the day on february 28, 2014.               håkan samuelsson and lord iain vallance of tummel.




171   c.   combined management report                           247     d.      consolidated financial statements                         337   e.     additional information
                                                                                                                                                                                                            163

      the compensation shown on the previous page was deter-                       if a supervisory board member does not attend a meeting of
      mined for each of the members of the supervisory board for                   the supervisory board, one-third of the aggregate compensa-
      fiscal 2014 (individualized disclosure).                                     tion due to that member is reduced by the percentage of super-
                                                                                   visory board meetings not attended by the member in relation
      the current remuneration policies for the supervisory board                  to the total number of supervisory board meetings held during
      were authorized at the annual shareholders’ meeting held on                  the fiscal year. in the event of changes in the composition of
      january 28, 2014, and are effective as of fiscal 2014. details               the supervisory board and / or its committees, compensation is
      are set out in section 17 of the articles of association of                  paid pro rata temporis, rounding up to the next full month.
      siemens ag. the remuneration of the supervisory board con-
      sists entirely of fixed compensation; it reflects the responsibili-          in addition, the members of the supervisory board are entitled
      ties and scope of the work of the supervisory board members.                 to receive a meeting attendance fee of € 1,500 for each meeting
      the chairman and deputy chairmen of the supervisory board                    of the supervisory board and its committees that they attend.
      as well as the chairmen and members of the audit committee,
      the chairman’s committee, the compensation committee, the                    the members of the supervisory board are reimbursed for out-
      compliance committee and the innovation and finance com-                     of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with their duties
      mittee receive additional compensation.                                      and for any value-added taxes to be paid on their remuneration.
                                                                                   for the performance of his duties, the chairman of the super-
      according to current rules, members of the supervisory board                 visory board is also entitled to an office with secretarial support
      receive an annual base compensation of € 140,000; the chair-                 and the use of a carpool service.
      man of the supervisory board receives a base compensation of
      € 280,000, and each of the deputy chairmen receives € 220,000.               no loans or advances from the company are provided to mem-
                                                                                   bers of the supervisory board.
      the members of the supervisory board committees receive the
      following additional fixed compensation for their work on these
      committees: the chairman of the audit committee receives                     b.4.3 other
      € 160,000, and each of the other members of that committee
      receives € 80,000; the chairman of the chairman’s committee                  the company provides a group insurance policy for board and
      receives € 120,000, and each of the other members of that com-               committee members and certain employees of the siemens
      mittee receives € 80,000; the chairman of the compensation                   organization that is taken out for one year and renewed annu-
      committee receives € 100,000, and each of the other members                  ally. the insurance covers the personal liability of the insured
      of that committee receives € 60,000 (compensation for any                    in the case of a financial loss associated with employment func-
      work on the chairman’s committee counts toward compensa-                     tions. the insurance policy for fiscal 2014 includes a deductible
      tion for work on the compensation committee); the chairman                   for the members of the managing board and the super visory
      of the innovation and finance committee receives € 80,000,                   board in compliance with the requirements of the german
      and each of the other members of that committee receives                     stock corporation act and the code.
      € 40,000; the chairman of the compliance committee receives
      € 80,000, and each of the other members of that committee
      receives € 40,000. however, no additional compensation is paid
      for work on the compliance committee if a member of that
      committee is already entitled to compensation for work on the
      audit committee.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.    corporate governance
164
                                                    132   b.1   corporate governance report                  144   b.4   compensation report
                                                    136   b.2   corporate governance statement pursuant to               (part of the combined management report)
                                                                section 289a of the german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover­relevant information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                 sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    138   b.3   compliance report                                        german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                 (part of the combined management report)

       b.5  takeover-relevant information (pursuant to sections 289
       para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the german commercial code) and
       explanatory report
the takeover-relevant information pursuant to sections 289                       the von siemens-vermögensverwaltung gmbh (vsv) has, on a
para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the german commercial code (han-                      sustained basis, powers of attorney allowing it to exercise the
delsgesetzbuch) and the explanatory report are an integral part                 voting rights for 9,386,535 shares (as of september 30, 2014) on
of the combined management report.                                              behalf of members of the siemens family, whereby aforemen-
                                                                                tioned shares constitute a part of the overall number of shares
                                                                                held by members of the siemens family. the vsv is a german
b.5.1 composition of common stock                                               limited liability company and party to an agreement with,
                                                                                among others, members of the siemens family (family agree-
as of september 30, 2014, the company ’s common stock                           ment). in order to bundle and represent their interests, the
­totaled € 2.643 billion (2013: € 2.643 billion) divided into 881 mil-          members of the siemens family established a family partner-
 lion (2013: 881 million) registered shares with no par value and               ship. this family partnership makes proposals to the vsv with
 a notional value of € 3.00 per share. the shares are fully paid in.            respect to the exercise of the voting rights at shareholders’
 in accordance with section 4 para. 3 of the company’s articles                 meetings of the company, which are taken into account by
 of association, the right of shareholders to have their owner-                 the vsv when acting within the bounds of its professional dis-
 ship interests evidenced by document is excluded, unless such                  cretion. pursuant to the family agreement, the shares under
 evidence is required under the regulations of a stock exchange                 ­powers of attorney are voted by the vsv collectively.
 on which the shares are listed. collective share certificates may
 be issued. pursuant to section 67 para. 2 of the german stock
 corporation act (aktiengesetz), only those persons recorded                    b.5.3 equity interests exceeding 10 %
 in the company ’s stock register will be recognized as share­                  of voting rights
 holders of the company.
                                                                                we are not aware of, nor have we during the fiscal year 2014
all shares confer the same rights and obligations. the share-                   been notified of, any shareholder directly or indirectly holding
holders’ rights and obligations are governed by the provisions                  10 % or more of the voting rights.
of the german stock corporation act, in particular by sections
12, 53a et seq., 118 et seq. and 186 of the german stock corpo-
ration act.                                                                     b.5.4 shares with special rights
                                                                                ­conferring powers of control
b.5.2 restrictions on voting rights or                                          there are no shares with special rights conferring powers of
transfer of shares                                                              control.

at the annual shareholders’ meeting, each share of stock has
one vote and accounts for the shareholders’ proportionate                       b.5.5 system of control of any
share in the company’s net income. excepted from this rule are                  employee share scheme where
treasury shares held by the company, which do not entitle the
company to any rights. under section 136 of the german stock                    the ­control rights are not exercised
corporation act the voting right of the affected shares is ex-                  directly by the employees
cluded by law.
                                                                                shares of stock issued by siemens ag to employees under its
shares issued to employees worldwide under the employee                         employee share program and / or as stock-based compensation
share program implemented since the beginning of fiscal 2009,                   are transferred directly to the employees. the beneficiary
in particular the share matching plan, are freely transferable un-              ­employees who hold shares of employee stock may exercise
less applicable local laws provide otherwise. however, in order                  their control rights in the same way as any other shareholder
to receive one matching share free of charge for each three                      ­directly in accordance with applicable laws and the articles of
shares purchased, participants are required to hold the shares                    association.
purchased by them under the rules of the program for a vesting
period of about three years, during which the participants have
to be continuously employed by siemens ag or another siemens
company. the right to receive matching shares is f­ orfeited if the
purchased shares are sold, transferred, hedged on, pledged or
hypothecated in any way during the vesting period.




171   c.   combined ­management report          247   d.   consolidated f
                                                                        ­ inancial statements         337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                    165

      b.5.6 legislation and provisions of the                                      i­ssued in such a manner that the contribution to be paid on
      articles of association applicable to the                                     such shares is covered by that part of the annual net income
                                                                                    which the managing board and the supervisory board may
      appointment and removal of members                                            ­allocate to other retained earnings under section 58 para. 2 of
      of the managing board and governing                                            the german stock corporation act.
      amendment to the articles of association
                                                                                   furthermore, the managing board is authorized to increase,
      the appointment and removal of members of the managing                       with the approval of the supervisory board, the capital stock
      board is subject to the provisions of sections 84 and 85 of the              until january 27, 2019 by up to € 528.6 million through the issu-
      german stock corporation act and section 31 of the german                    ance of up to 176.2 million registered shares of no par value
      codetermination act (mitbestimmungsgesetz). according to                     against cash contributions and / or contributions in kind (author­
      section 8 para. 1 of the articles of association, the managing               ized capital 2014).
      board is comprised of several members, the number of which
      is determined by the supervisory board. pursuant to section 84               as of september 30, 2014, the total unissued authorized capital
      of the german stock corporation act and section 9 of the                     of siemens ag therefore consisted of € 618.6 million nominal
      ­articles of association, the supervisory board may appoint a                that may be issued in installments with varying terms by issu-
       president of the managing board as well as a vice president.                ance of up to 206.2 million registered shares of no par value.

      according to section 179 of the german stock corporation act,                by resolution of the annual shareholders’ meeting of janu-
      any amendment to the articles of association requires a resolu-              ary 26, 2010, the managing board is authorized until janu-
      tion of the annual shareholders’ meeting. the authority to                   ary 25, 2015 to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of
      adopt purely formal amendments to the articles of association                up to € 15 billion with conversion rights or with warrants at-
      was transferred to the supervisory board under section 13                     tached, or a combination of these instruments, entitling the
      para. 2 of the articles of association. in addition, by resolution            holders to subscribe to up to 200 million registered shares of
      of the annual shareholders’ meetings on january 25, 2011 and                 siemens ag of no par value, representing a pro rata amount of
      january 28, 2014, the supervisory board has been authorized to               up to € 600 million of the capital stock. additionally, by resolu-
      amend section 4 of the articles of association in accordance                 tion of the annual shareholders’ meeting of january 28, 2014,
      with the utilization of the authorized capital 2011 and the                  the managing board is authorized until january 27, 2019 to
      ­authorized capital 2014, and after expiration of the then-appli-            issue bearer or registered bonds in an aggregate principal
                                                                                   ­
       cable authorization period.                                                 amount of up to € 15 billion with conversion rights or with
                                                                                   bearer or registered warrants attached or a combination of
      resolutions of the annual shareholders’ meeting require a sim-               these instruments, entitling the holders to subscribe to up to
      ple majority vote, unless a greater majority is required by law.             80 million registered shares of siemens ag of no par value, rep-
      pursuant to section 179 para. 2 of the german stock corpora-                 resenting a pro rata amount of up to € 240 million of the capital
      tion act, amendments to the articles of association require                  stock. in order to grant shares of stock to holders / creditors of
      a majority of at least three-quarters of the capital stock repre-            convertible bonds or warrant bonds issued by the company
      sented at the time of the casting of the votes, unless another               or by consolidated subsidiaries of the company under these
      capital majority is prescribed by the articles of association.               ­authorizations the capital stock was conditionally increased by
                                                                                    up to € 600 million through the issuance of up to 200 million
                                                                                    shares of no par value registered in the names of the holders
      b.5.7 powers of the managing board                                            (conditional capital 2010) and by up to € 240 million, respec-
      to issue and repurchase shares                                                tively, through the issuance of up to 80 million shares of no par
                                                                                    value registered in the names of the of the holders (conditional
      the managing board is authorized to increase, with the ap-                    capital 2014).
      proval of the supervisory board, the capital stock until janu-
      ary 24, 2016 by up to € 90 million through the issuance of up to             the new shares under the authorized capital 2014 and the
      30 million registered shares of no par value against contribu-               bonds under these authorizations are to be issued against
      tions in cash (authorized capital 2011). preemptive rights of                cash or non-cash contributions. the bonds are, as a matter of
      existing shareholders are excluded. the new shares shall be                  principle, to be offered to shareholders for subscription. the
      issued under the condition that they are offered exclusively                 managing board is authorized to exclude, with the approval of
      to employees of siemens ag and its consolidated subsidiaries.                the supervisory board, subscription rights of shareholders in
      to the extent permitted by law, employee shares may also be                  the event of capital increases against contributions in kind.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.    corporate ­governance
166
                                                    132   b.1   corporate governance report                   144   b.4       compensation report
                                                    136   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                section 289a of the ­german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    138   b.3    ompliance report
                                                                c                                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                 (part of the combined management report)                     (part of the combined management report)

in the event of capital increases against contributions in cash,              c
                                                                              ­ ompany to acquire until january 24, 2016 up to 10 % of its
the managing board is authorized to exclude shareholders’                     capital stock existing at the date of adopting the resolution
subscription rights with the approval of the supervisory board                or – if this value is lower – as of the date on which the autho-
in the following cases:                                                       rization is exercised. the aggregate of shares of stock of
                                                                              siemens ag repurchased under this authorization and any
>> where the issue price of the new shares / bonds is not signi­f­            other siemens shares previously acquired and still held in
   icantly lower than the stock market price of the siemens                   treasury by the company or attributable to the company pur-
   shares already listed or the theoretical market price of the               suant to sections 71d and 71e of the german stock corpora-
   bonds computed in accordance with generally accepted actu-                 tion act may at no time exceed 10 % of the then existing capi-
   arial methods (exclusion of preemptive rights, limited to 10 %             tal stock. any repurchase of siemens shares shall be
   of the capital stock, in accordance with or by mutatis mutan-              accomplished at the discretion of the managing board either
   dis application of section 186 para. 3 sentence 4 german                   (1) by acquisition over the stock exchange or (2) through a
   stock corporation act)                                                     public share repurchase offer. the managing board is addi-
>> where the exclusion is necessary with regard to fractional                 tionally authorized, with the approval of the supervisory
   amounts resulting from the subscription ratio                              board, to complete the repurchase of siemens shares in
>> where the exclusion is necessary in order to grant holders of              ­accordance with the authorization described above by using
   conversion or option rights or conversion or option obliga-                 certain equity derivatives (such as put and call options, for-
   tions on siemens shares a compensation for the effects of                   ward purchases and any combination of these derivatives). in
   dilution.                                                                  exercising this authorization, all stock repurchases based on
                                                                               the equity derivatives are limited to a maximum volume of
the total amount of new shares issued or to be issued under                    5 % of siemens’ capital stock existing at the date of adopting
the authorized capital 2014 or in accordance with the bonds                    the resolution at the annual shareholders’ meeting. an ­equity
mentioned above, in exchange for contributions in cash and in                  derivative’s term of maturity may not, in any case, exceed
kind and with shareholders’ subscription rights excluded, may                  18 months and must be chosen in such a way that the repur-
in certain cases be subject to further restrictions, such as the               chase of siemens shares upon exercise of the equity deriva-
restriction that they may not exceed 20 % of the capital stock.                tive will take place no later than january 24, 2016.
the details of those restrictions are described in the relevant
authorization.                                                                besides selling them over the stock exchange or through a pub-
                                                                              lic sales offer to all shareholders, the managing board is author­
in february 2012, siemens issued bonds with warrant units                     ized by resolution of the annual shareholders’ meeting on
with a volume of us$ 3 billion. the bonds with warrant units                  ­january 25, 2011 to also use siemens shares repurchased on the
with a minimum per-unit denomination of us$ 250,000 were                       basis of this or any previously given authorization as follows:
offered exclusively to institutional investors outside the u.s.
subscription rights of siemens shareholders were excluded.                    such siemens shares may be
the bonds issued by siemens financieringsmaatschappij n.v.                    >> retired
are guaranteed by siemens ag and complemented with war-                       >> offered for purchase to individuals currently or formerly em-
rants issued by siemens ag. the warrants entitle their holders                   ployed by the company or any of its affiliated companies as
to receive siemens shares against payment of the exercise                        well as to board members of any of the company’s affiliated
price in euros. at issuance, the warrants resulted in option                     companies, or awarded and / or transferred to such individu-
rights relating to a total of about 21.7 million siemens shares.                 als with a vesting period of at least two years
the terms and conditions of the warrants enable siemens to                    >> offered and transferred, with the approval of the supervisory
service exercised option rights also by delivering treasury stock                board, to third parties against non-cash contributions
as well as to buy back the warrants. the bonds with warrant                   >> sold, with the approval of the supervisory board, to third par-
units were issued in two tranches with maturities of 5.5 years                   ties against payment in cash if the price at which such
and 7.5 years, respectively. the maturities refer to both the                    siemens shares are sold is not significantly lower than
bonds and the related warrants.                                                  the market price of siemens stock at the time of selling (ex­
                                                                                 clusion of subscription rights, limited to 10 % of the capital
the company may not repurchase its own shares unless so                          stock, by mutatis mutandis application of section 186 para. 3
­authorized by a resolution duly adopted by the shareholders                     sentence 4 german stock corporation act) or
 at a general meeting or in other very limited circumstances                  >> used to meet obligations or rights to acquire siemens shares
 set forth in the german stock corporation act. on january 25,                   arising from, or in connection with, convertible bonds or war­
 2011, the annual shareholders’ meeting authorized the                           rant bonds issued by the company or any of its c­ onsolidated




171   c.   combined ­management report        247   d.   consolidated f
                                                                      ­ inancial statements         337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                   167

        subsidiaries (exclusion of subscription rights, limited to 10%              credit line at its disposal in the amount of € 450 million which
        of the capital stock, by mutatis mutandis application of sec-               may be terminated by the lender if major changes in
        tion 186 para. 3 sentence 4 german stock corporation act).                 siemens ag’s corporate legal situation occur that jeopardize
                                                                                    the orderly repayment of the credit.
      furthermore, the supervisory board is authorized to use shares
      acquired on the basis of this or any previously given authoriza-              in march 2013, a consolidated subsidiary as borrower and
      tion to meet obligations or rights to acquire siemens shares                  siemens ag as guarantor entered into two bilateral loan agree-
      that were or will be agreed with members of the managing                      ments, each of which has been drawn in the full amount of
      board within the framework of rules governing managing                        us$ 500 million. both agreements provide their respective
      board compensation.                                                           lenders with a right of termination in the event that (1)
                                                                                    siemens ag becomes a subsidiary of another company or (2)
      in november 2013, the company announced that it would carry                   a person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires effec-
      out a share buyback of up to € 4 billion in volume within the                 tive control over siemens ag by being able to exercise decisive
      next up to 24 months using the authorization given by the an-                 influence over its activities (art. 3(2) of council regulation
      nual shareholders’ meeting on january 25, 2011. the buyback                   (ec) 139 / 2004).
      commenced on may 12, 2014. under this share buyback
      siemens repurchased 11,331,922 shares by september 30, 2014.                  framework agreements concluded by siemens ag under inter-
      the total consideration paid for these shares amounted to                     national swaps and derivatives association inc. documenta-
      about € 1.079 billion (excluding incidental transaction charges).             tion (isda agreements) grant the counterparty a right of termi-
      the buyback may serve only to cancel and reduce the capital                   nation when siemens ag consolidates with, merges into, or
      stock, issue shares to employees, board members of affiliated                 transfers substantially all its assets to a third party. however,
      companies and members of the managing board of siemens ag,                    this right of termination only exists, if (1) the resulting entity ’s
      or service convertible bonds and warrant bonds.                               creditworthiness is materially weaker than siemens ag’s im-
                                                                                    mediately prior to such event or (2) the resulting entity fails to
      as of september 30, 2014, the company held 45,745,147 (2013:                  simultaneously assume siemens ag’s obligations under the
      37,997,595) shares of stock in treasury.                                      isda agreement. additionally, some isda agreements grant
                                                                                    the counterparty a right of termination if a third party acquires
       for details on the authorizations, especially with respect to the            the beneficial ownership of equity securities that enable it to
       restrictions to exclude subscription rights and the terms to in-             elect a majority of siemens ag’s supervisory board or other-
       clude shares when calculating such restrictions, please refer to             wise acquire the power to control siemens ag’s material policy-­
       the relevant resolution and to section 4 of the articles of associ-          making decisions and if the creditworthiness of siemens ag is
       ation. for further information on the authorized and conditional             materially weaker than it was immediately prior to such an
       capitals and on the treasury stock of the company as of sep­                 event. in either situation, isda agreements are designed such
       tember 30, 2014, see         note 25 equit y in      d.6 notes to            that upon termination all outstanding payment claims docu-
      ­c on­s olidated financial statements on pages 289 - 290 of this              mented under them are to be netted.
       ­annual ­report.
                                                                                    in february 2012, siemens issued bonds with warrant units
                                                                                    with a volume of us$ 3 billion. in case of a change of control,
      b.5.8 significant agreements which take                                       the terms and conditions of these warrants enable their hold-
      effect, alter or terminate upon a change                                      ers to receive a higher number of siemens shares in accordance
                                                                                    with an adjusted strike price if they exercise their option rights
      of control of the company following a                                         within a certain period of time after the change of control. this
      takeover bid                                                                  period of time shall end either (1) not less than 30 days and no
                                                                                    more than 60 days after publication of the notice of the issuer
      siemens ag maintains two lines of credit in an amount of                      regarding the change of control, as determined by the issuer or
      € 4 billion and an amount of us$ 3 billion, respectively, which               (2) 30 days after the change of control first becomes publicly
      provide its lenders with a right of termination in the event that             known. the strike price adjustment decreases depending on
      (1) siemens ag becomes a subsidiary of another company or                     the remaining term of the warrants and is determined in detail
      (2) a person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires                 in the terms and conditions of the warrants. in this context, a
      effective control over siemens ag by being able to exercise                   change of control occurs if control of siemens ag is acquired
      ­decisive influence over its activities (art. 3(2) of council regu-           by a person or by persons acting in concert.
       lation (ec) 139 / 2004). in addition, siemens ag has a bilateral




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.    corporate ­governance
168
                                                     132   b.1   corporate governance report                   144   b.4       compensation report
                                                     136   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                 c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                 section 289a of the ­german commercial code   165   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                 (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                     138   b.3    ompliance report
                                                                 c                                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                  (part of the combined management report)                     (part of the combined management report)

b.5.9 compensation agreements with
members of the managing board or
employees in the event of a takeover bid
in the event of a change of control that results in a substantial
change in the position of a managing board member (for exam-
ple, due to a change in corporate strategy or a change in the
managing board member’s duties and responsibilities), the
member of the managing board has the right to terminate his
or her contract with the company for good cause. a change of
control exists if one or several shareholders acting jointly or in
concert acquire a majority of the voting rights in siemens ag
and exercise a controlling influence, or if siemens ag becomes
a dependent enterprise as a result of entering into an intercom-
pany agreement within the meaning of section 291 of the ger-
man stock corporation act, or if siemens ag is to be merged
into an existing corporation or other entity. if this right of ter-
mination is exercised, the managing board member is entitled
to a severance payment in the amount of no more than two
years’ compensation. the calculation of the annual compensa-
tion includes not only the base compensation and the target
amount for the bonus, but also the target amount for the stock
awards, in each case based on the most recent completed fiscal
year prior to termination of the contract. the stock-based com-
pensation components for which a firm commitment already
exists will remain unaffected. there is no entitlement to a sev-
erance payment if the managing board member receives bene-
fits from third parties in connection with a change of control.
moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change of control
occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a managing
board member’s retirement. additionally, the severance pay-
ments cover non-monetary benefits by including an amount of
5 % of the total severance amount. severance payments will be
reduced by 15 % as a lump-sum allowance for discounted values
and for income earned elsewhere. however, this reduction will
apply only to the portion of the severance payment that was
calculated without taking account of the first six months of the
remaining term of the managing board member’s contract.




171   c.   combined ­management report        247   d.   consolidated f
                                                                      ­ inancial statements   337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                   169

      in our combined management report,
      we analyze our business activities
      in the reporting year as well as the
      ­current state of siemens worldwide
       and siemens ag. starting from a
       description of our business, economic
       environment and strategy, we present
       our financial target system and a
       detailed explanation of our results of
       operations as well as our financial
       and net assets position. ­we also report
       on various aspects of sustainability
       at siemens and on expected develop-
       ments ­and their material opportunities
       and risks.
         www.siemens.com/ar/combined-­m anagement-report



      additional sustainability indicators are available at:
         www.siemens.com/ar/sustainabilit y-figures




170

c.                      combined
                        management report


172 c.1      business and                        214 c.7      subsequent events
             economic environment
172 c.1.1    the siemens group
                                                 215 c.8      sustainability and citizenship




                                                                                                          c. combined management report
179 c.1.2 economic environment
                                                 215 c.8.1    sustainability at siemens
183 c.1.3 strategy
                                                 216 c.8.2    employees
                                                 218 c.8.3    research and development
187 c.2      financial performance system        220 c.8.4    supply chain management
187 c.2.1 overview                               221 c.8.5    distribution and customer relations
187 c.2.2 revenue growth                         221 c.8.6    environmental portfolio
187 c.2.3 profitability and capital efficiency   222 c.8.7    environmental protection
189 c.2.4 capital structure                      224 c.8.8    corporate citizenship
189 c.2.5 dividend and share buybacks
190 c.2.6 additional information for             225 c.9      report on expected developments
          financial performance measures
                                                              ­and associated material
                                                               ­opportunities and risks
193 c.3      results of operations               225 c.9.1    report on expected developments
193 c.3.1 orders and revenue by region           229 c.9.2    risk management
194 c.3.2 segment information analysis           230 c.9.3    risks
201 c.3.3 income                                 238 c.9.4    opportunities
202 c.3.4 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda      240 c.9.5    significant characteristics of the
204 c.3.5 selected information based on                       accounting-related internal control
          new organizational structure                        and risk management system


205 c.4      financial position                  242 c.10     compensation report
                                                              and legal disclosures
205 c.4.1 principles and objectives
          of financial management
205 c.4.2 capital structure                      242 c.11     siemens ag
206 c.4.3 investing activities                                (discussion on basis of german
                                                              commercial code)
207 c.4.4 cash flows
                                                 242 c.11.1 business and economic environment
208 c.4.5 capital resources and requirements
                                                 242 c.11.2 results of operations
                                                 244 c.11.3 net assets and financial position
210 c.5      net assets position
                                                 245 c.11.4 employees
                                                 245 c.11.5 subsequent events
213 c.6      overall assessment of the           245 c.11.6 risks and opportunities
             ­economic position                  245 c.11.7 outlook




                                                                                                    171

             c.1  business and economic environment


      c.1.1 the siemens group                                                                    our company is incorporated in germany, with our corporate
                                                                                                 ­headquarters situated in munich. siemens operates under the
      c.1.1.1 organization and basis of presentation                                              leader­ ship of its managing board. the siemens managing
      we are a globally operating technology company with core ac-                                board is the sole management body and has overall business
      tivities ­in the fields of electrification, automation and digital­                         responsibility in accordance with the german stock c   ­ orporation
      ization, ­and we occupy leading market positions worldwide in                               act (aktiengesetz, aktg). at all other organizational levels
      the majority of our businesses. we can look back on a success-                              within our company, management responsibility is assigned to
      ful history spanning 167 years, with groundbreaking and revo-                               individuals who make decisions and assume personal responsi-
      lutionary innovations such as the invention of the dynamo,                                  bility (ceo principle). this principle establishes clear and direct
      the first electric streetcar, the construction of the first public                          responsibilities and fosters efficient ­decision-making.
      power plant, and the first images of the inside of the human
      body. on a continuing basis, we have around 343,000 employees                              below the managing board, siemens was structured organiza-
      ­as of september 30, 2014 and business activities in nearly all                            tionally into four sectors (energy, healthcare, industry and
       ­countries of the world and reported consolidated revenue of                              ­infrastructure & cities), financial services (sfs), cross-sector
        € 71.920 billion in fiscal 2014. we operate 289 major produc-                              services, corporate units and countries in fiscal 2014. the
        tion and manufacturing plants worldwide. in addition, we have                             ­sectors were principally broken down into divisions and these
        ­office buildings, warehouses, research and development facili-                            in turn into business units.
         ties or sales offices in almost every country in the world.
                                                                                                 in fiscal 2014, the sectors formed four of our reportable seg-
      siemens comprises siemens ag, a stock corporation under the                                ments. in addition to our four sectors, we had two additional
      federal laws of germany, as the parent company and a total                                 reportable segments: equity investments and sfs. the following
      of about 800 legal entities, including minority investments.                               figure shows our reportable segments as of september 30, 2014.


             reportable segments as of september 30, 2014


                                                          total sectors



                 energy                      healthcare                     industry              infrastructure & cities            equity                       financial
                 sector                        sector                        sector                       sector                  investments                     services

       therein:                         therein:                  therein:                        therein:
       > power generation              > diagnostics            > industry automation          > transportation &
       > wind power                                              > drive technologies              logistics
       > power transmission                                                                      > power grid
                                                                                                     solutions & products
                                                                                                  > building
                                                                                                     technologies




      during fiscal 2014, we initiated a change in the organizational                            which consist of the following divisions: power and gas;
      structure of siemens, which became effective as of october 1,                              wind power and renewables; energy management; build-
      2014. beginning with fiscal 2015, we eliminated the sectors and                            ing technologies; mobility; digital factory; and ­process
      bundled the businesses of the former energy, industry and                                  ­industries and drives.
      ­infrastructure & cities sectors into seven reportable segments,




      108   a.    to our shareholders                            131   b.     corporate ­governance                         171   c.    combined ­management report
172
                                                                                                                            172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                            187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                            193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                            205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                            210   c.5   net assets position

       global presence 1

                                                                                                    europe, c.i.s.,2
                                                                                                    africa, middle east



                                                                                                                           38,732                           revenue (in millions of €) 3
                                                                                                                                                            54% of total worldwide



                                                                                                                           41,542                           orders (in millions of €) 3
                                                                                                                                                            53% of total worldwide



                                                                                                                          211,000                           employees 4
                                                                                                                                                            62% of total worldwide
                                                                                                                                                            major

                                                                                                                              139                           production plants 5
                                                                                                                                                            48% of total worldwide




americas                                                                                                                  asia,
                                                                                                                          australia


             18,756                              revenue (in millions of €) 3
                                                 26% of total worldwide
                                                                                                                            14,433                           revenue (in millions of €) 3
                                                                                                                                                             20% of total worldwide


             20,880                              orders (in millions of €) 3
                                                 27% of total worldwide
                                                                                                                            15,929                           orders (in millions of €) 3
                                                                                                                                                             20% of total worldwide

             70,000                              employees 4
                                                 20% of total worldwide
                                                                                                                            62,000                           employees 4
                                                                                                                                                             18% of total worldwide
                                                 major

                 76                              production plants 5
                                                 26% of total worldwide
                                                                                                                                74
                                                                                                                                                             major
                                                                                                                                                             production plants 5
                                                                                                                                                             26% of total worldwide


       1    all figures refer to continuing operations.   2 commonwealth of independent states.      3 by customer location.    4    as of september 30, 2014.    5   15 employees or more.




                                                                                                                               247    d.     consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                               337    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                              173
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position          242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                        c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                                    242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                        c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                  of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      the following figure shows the main transfers of the businesses
      from the three sectors energy, industry and infrastructure &
       cities as of september 30, 2014 to these divisions as of
      ­october 1, 2014.

              transfer of businesses as of october 1, 2014



                              energy sector                                                  industry sector                                      infrastructure & cities sector


                                                            power                                               drive                   trans­                 power grid                   building
        power                                                                        industry
                                wind power                  trans­                                              tech­                 portation &              solutions &                   tech­
      generation1                                                                   automation
                                                            mission                                            nologies                logistics 2              products 3                  nologies




                               wind power                  energy                                              process                                                                      building
             power                                                                    digital
                                   and                     manage­                                            industries                mobility                                             tech­
            and gas                                                                   factory
                               renewables4                  ment                                              and drives                                                                    nologies


              1 all businesses except for solutions for oil and gas           2 beginning with fiscal 2015, the airport logistics and       3 all businesses except for rail electrification go to energy
                 industries go to power and gas, oil and gas solutions            postal automation business is reported within centrally        management; rail electrification goes to mobility.
                 go to process industries and drives.                             managed portfolio activities.
                                                                                                                                              4 also includes solar and hydro business.




      for more details on these organizational changes see                                   c.1.1.2       sfs, which acts as business partner for siemens’s other divi-
      business description .                                                                               sions and healthcare and also conducts its own business with
                                                                                                           external customers, is a reportable segment which is reported
      in addition, the former healthcare sector became a separately                                        outside our industrial business. beginning with fiscal 2015,
      managed business within siemens effective october 1, 2014.                                           ­equity investments ceased to be a reportable segment and
      the above mentioned seven divisions together with health-                                             became part of centrally managed portfolio activities, which
      care form our industrial business.                                                                    are reported within the reconciliation to consolidated finan-
                                                                                                            cial statements.



      beginning of fiscal 2015, siemens’ reportable segments are as
      follows:

              reportable segments as of october 1, 2014


                                                                                industrial business




                             wind power              energy                building                                                           process
             power                                                                                                       digital                                                            financial
                                and                  manage­                tech­­                mobility                                   industries            healthcare
            and gas                                                                                                      factory                                                            services
                             renewables               ment                 nologies                                                          and drives




      108    a.   to our shareholders                                    131   b.     corporate ­governance                                 171   c.    combined ­management report
174
                                                                                                                                            172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                            187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                                            193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                                            205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                                            210   c.5   net assets position

our divisions are responsible for developing and implementing                               except otherwise stated, financial measures presented in this
their strategy; for developing and producing their portfolio of                             combined management report are based on our organizational
products and services; and for managing their sales channels.                               structure as of september 30, 2014. based on this organiza-
as “global entrepreneurs” they have end-to-end business re-                                 tional structure, we provide financial measures for our four
sponsibility worldwide, including with regard to their operating                            ­sectors and for two businesses, each combining two divisions
results. they therefore have “right of way” over the regional                                within a sector as well as for eight divisions of our sectors.
units in business matters.                                                                   these financial measures include: orders, revenue, profit and
                                                                                             profit margin. divisions within a sector may do business with
as of october 1, 2014, healthcare became a separately managed                                each other, leading to corresponding orders and revenue. such
unit, which includes among others, the set-up of customized                                  orders and revenues are eliminated on a sector level. further-
structures (e.g. sales structures, r & d), systems (especially it)                           more, our reportable segments may do business with each
and functions (e.g. human resources, procurement).                                           other, leading to corresponding orders and revenue. such
                                                                                             ­orders and revenue are eliminated on the siemens level within
beginning with fiscal 2015, our businesses are supported by our                               eliminations, corporate treasury and other reconciling items
corporate core, which comprises the units corporate develop-                                  and are not included in orders and revenue with external cus-
ment; governance & markets; communications and govern-                                        tomers (external orders and external revenue, respectively)
ment affairs; legal and compliance, human resources; corpo-                                   ­reported in this document. for equity investments we report
rate technology; and controlling and finance and by our                                        profit, and for sfs we report profit and total assets. free cash
corporate services, which consist of the units information                                     flow and further financial measures are reported for each
technology; supply chain management; export control and                                        reportable segment in the notes to consolidated financial
                                                                                               ­
customs; business process services; and siemens real estate.                                   statements. for information related to the definition of these
the corporate core issues binding company-wide guidelines in                                   financial measures and to the reconciliation of segment finan-
coordination with the managing board and oversee their imple-                                  cial measures to the consolidated financial statements, see
mentation. in addition, the heads of selected corporate func-                                     note 35 in    d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .

tions (governance & markets, communications and govern-
ment affairs, legal and compliance, human resources,
controlling and finance) have an unrestricted right to issue
instructions in relation to their function across all parts of the
company in accordance with the bylaws for the managing
board of siemens ag and to the extent legally permissible.

during the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we disbanded our
­regional cluster organization. following this organizational
 change, we have designated 30 lead countries which are indi-
 vidually responsible for managing a number of other coun-
 tries regarding market penetration. the lead countries and
 their assigned countries are responsible for the local customer
 ­relationship management and for implementing the business
  strategies of the divisions. each lead country reports directly
  to the managing board.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    175
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      c.1.1.2 business description                                                division. our solution business for the oil and gas industry will
      until september 30, 2014, our business activities focused on                be included in the new process industries and drives division.
      the four sectors energy, healthcare, industry and infrastruc-
      ture & cities. in addition to these four sectors, we had two addi-          the businesses of our former wind power division manufac-
      tional reportable segments: equity investments and sfs. for                 ture wind turbines for onshore and offshore applications, in-
      more information on the portfolio transactions described                    cluding both geared turbines and direct drive machines. the
      ­below, see      note 4 in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial          product portfolio is based on four product platforms, two for
       statements .                                                               each of the onshore and offshore applications. the revenue mix
                                                                                  of these businesses may vary from reporting p    ­ eriod to report-
      energy                                                                      ing ­period depending on the project mix between onshore and
      the businesses of the former energy sector offer a wide spec-               offshore projects in the respective ­period. beginning with fiscal
      trum of products, solutions and services for generating and                 2015, these businesses were combined with our solar and hydro
      transmitting power, and for extracting, converting and trans-               activities in the new wind power and renewables division.
      porting oil and gas.
                                                                                  the businesses of our former power transmission division
      in fiscal 2014, the energy sector comprised four divisions:                 provide energy utilities and large industrial power users
      power generation; wind power; power transmission; and                       with turnkey power transmission solutions as well as discrete
      ­energy service. in addition, the sector included two sector-­              ­products, systems and related engineering and services. these
       led businesses: solar and hydro. results for these businesses               ­offerings are used to process and transmit electrical power
       were included in results for the sector. siemens has decided                 from the source, such as power plants and onshore and off-
       to exit solar business activities after completing projects in               shore wind farms, to various points along the power trans­
       ­progress.                                                                   mission network. beginning with fiscal 2015, these businesses
                                                                                    are part of the new energy management division.
      the businesses of our former power generation division offer
      an extensive portfolio of products and solutions for generating             the businesses of the former energy service division offer
      electricity from fossil fuels and for producing and transporting            comprehensive services for products, solutions and technol­
      oil and gas. the division’s customers include both energy pro-              ogies, covering performance enhancements, maintenance ser-
      viders and industrial companies. due to the broad range of the              vices, customer trainings and consulting services for the for-
      offerings, the division’s revenue mix may vary from reporting               mer divisions power generation and wind power. financial
                             ­­
      ­­period to reporting period   depending on the share of revenue            results relating to the energy service division were included in
      attributable to products, solutions and services. because typical           these divisions. beginning with fiscal 2015, the division was
      profitability levels differ among these three revenue sources,              renamed power generation services. results for that division
      the revenue mix in a reporting ­­     period accordingly affects            will be included in the new power and gas and wind power and
                                ­ eriod.
      ­division profit for that p                                                 renewables divisions.

      in may 2014, we announced the acquisition of the rolls-royce                healthcare
      energy aero-derivative gas turbine and compressor business                  healthcare offers customers a comprehensive portfolio of
      of rolls-royce plc, u.k. with the acquisition, we intend to                 medical solutions across the treatment chain – from preven-
      strengthen our position in the growing oil and gas industry as              tion and early detection to diagnosis, treatment and follow-up
      well as in the field of decentralized power generation. in sep-             care. we are a major supplier of technology to the healthcare
      tember 2014, we have entered into an agreement with dresser-­               industry worldwide and a trendsetter in medical imaging, labo-
      rand to acquire all of its issued and outstanding common                    ratory diagnostics, healthcare it and hearing instruments. in
      shares by way of a friendly takeover bid. with its comprehen-               addition, we provide technical maintenance, professional and
      sive portfolio of compressors, steam turbines, gas turbines and             consulting services, and, together with sfs, financing to assist
      engines, dresser-rand is a leading supplier for the oil & gas,              customers in purchasing our products.
      process, power and other industries in the related energy infra-
      structure markets worldwide. the acquisition complements our                in august 2014, we announced our plan to sell our hospital
      existing offerings, notably for the global oil & gas industry and           ­information system business to the u.s.-based company cerner
      for distributed power generation.                                            corp. since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, these activities
                                                                                   formerly included in the healthcare sector fulfilled the require-
      beginning with fiscal 2015, substantially all of the former divi-            ments to be reported as discontinued operations. results for
      sion’s businesses will be included in the new power and gas                  prior ­periods are reported on a comparable basis.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
176
                                                                                                        172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                        187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                        193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                        205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                        210   c.5   net assets position

because a large part of our revenue stems from recurring busi-                              processes – from product design to production to sales and ser-
ness, our business activities are to a certain extent resilient to                          vice. in line with “industrie 4.0” – a german high-tech indus-
short-term economic trends but are dependent on regulatory                                  trial strategy – we are working on the convergence between
and policy developments around the world. we are currently                                  the real and the virtual worlds of production, sometimes called
operating in a low growth environment, impacted by ­healthcare                              “digital enterprise.” our portfolio is geared largely to the man-
reforms, budgetary constraints and consolidation of healthcare                              ufacturing industry and its major markets such as automotive,
service providers, predominantly in the u.s. and e ­ urope.                                 aerospace and production equipment as well as food and bev-
                                                                                            erage, pharmaceutical and chemical. therefore our business
in fiscal 2014, the healthcare sector included four divisions:                              activities can be strongly affected by economic cycles because
imaging & therapy systems, clinical products, diagnostics                                   these markets tend to react quickly to changes in the overall
   and customer solutions. the sector also included audiology                               economic environment.
­solutions, a sector-led business. in addition to our sector-level
 ­financial results, we also reported financial results for our                             with the businesses of the former drive technologies divi-
  ­diagnostics division.                                                                    sion we are one of the world’s leading suppliers of integrated
                                                                                            drive systems. with our products and systems for innovative
beginning with fiscal 2015, siemens healthcare will be man-                                 applications and industry-specific solutions as well as end-to-
aged separately under the siemens umbrella. this will enable                                end services, we are increasing the productivity, energy effi-
healthcare to adjust to markets flexibly and in a more focused                              ciency and reliability of machinery and installations in indus-
way. it means in essence, a sales organization optimized to                                 tries such as shipbuilding, cement, mining, and pulp and
meet the needs of healthcare and a healthcare s­ pecific set up                             paper. advanced industry software facilitates our offerings’
of support and central functions. in addition, siemens an-                                  optimal integration. our reliable gears, couplings, and drive
nounced in november 2014 the sale of its hearing aid business                               solutions are partly also in high demand in other divisions of
audiology solutions to the investment company eqt and the                                   the siemens group, mainly for rail transport and wind turbines.
german entre­preneurial family strüngmann as co-investors.                                  with our e-car business, we develop motors and inverters for
                                                                                            electric cars and thereby address an additional future growth
industry                                                                                    market. the industries served by our businesses, particularly
with the businesses included in the former industry sector, we                              the process industries, the energy industry and the infrastruc-
are one of the world’s leading suppliers of innovative and envi-                            ture sector, generally show a delayed response to changes in
ronmentally friendly products and solutions for industrial com-                             the overall economic environment. in contrast, our business
panies, particularly those in the process and manufacturing                                 activities that serve customers in the manufacturing industries
industries. our end-to-end automation solutions, drive technol-                             can be strongly affected by economic cycles.
ogies, industrial it and industry software, in-depth industry
expertise and technology-based services help our customers                                  with a comprehensive portfolio of services and a global net-
use resources and energy more efficiently, improve productiv-                               work of experts, our businesses of the former customer
ity, and increase flexibility.                                                              ­services division support our industrial customers with tech-
                                                                                             nology-based industry services across entire lifecycles of their
in fiscal year 2014, the sector consisted of three divisions:                                plants and machinery – from planning and engineering to
­industry automation, drive technologies and customer ser-                                   ­operation and modernization.
 vices. financial results relating to the customer services divi-
 sion were included in the results for industry automation and                              beginning with fiscal 2015, we serve the industrial market
 drive technologies. during the third quarter of fiscal 2014,                               with two new divisions that tailor their strategies to specific
 nearly all activities of the metals technologies business for-                             ­customer industries. the digital factory division primarily
 merly included in the industry sector fulfilled the requirements                            ­addresses the manufacturing industry and its major markets:
 to be reported as discontinued operations. these activities                                  ­automotive, aerospace, and machine tool and production equip-
 are to become part of a joint venture with mitsubishi-hitachi                                 ment over the complete product lifecycle of our customers.
 ­metals machinery inc., in which siemens will hold a 49 % stake.                              the process industries and drives division focuses largely ­on
  results for prior ­periods are reported on a comparable basis.                               the process industries like pharmaceutical, food & beverage,
                                                                                               chemical and related industries as well as drive solutions for
the businesses of the former industry automation division                                      infrastructure topics. the related business activities within the
offer a unique combination of automation technologies, indus-                                  former industry automation and drive technologies divisions
trial controls and industry software that supports customers in                                were accordingly realigned into the two new divisions. in order
optimizing the complete product development and production                                     to streamline the process automation activities in the oil & gas




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    177
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      industries, the former energy power generation division’s                   business can operate better and more flexible in its medium-­
      oil & gas solutions business is part of the new process indus-              sized competitive environment. beginning with fiscal 2015, the
      tries and drives division. the former customer services                     airport logistics and postal automation business is reported
      ­division is managed within the new digital factory division.               within centrally managed portfolio activities, which are part of
                                                                                  the reconciliation to consolidated financial statements.
      infrastructure & cities
      the businesses of the former infrastructure & cities sector of-             the principal customers of the businesses included in our for-
      fer a wide range of technologies that increase the functionality            mer rail systems and mobility and logistics divisions are pub-
      and sustainability of metropolitan centers and urban infra­                 lic and state-owned companies in the transportation and logis-
      structures worldwide, such as integrated mobility solutions,                tics sectors. markets served by these businesses are driven
      ­building and security systems, power distribution equipment,               primarily by public spending. customers of these businesses
       grid automation and control products and solutions, smart grid             usually have multi-year planning and implementation hori-
       ­applications and low and medium-voltage products. we apply                zons, and their contract tenders therefore tend to be indepen-
        our it and automation expertise to optimize infrastructures –             dent of short-term economic trends.
        making better use of existing systems and reducing operating
        costs while increasing energy efficiency and improving safety             beginning with fiscal 2015, the business activities of the former
        and security.                                                             rail systems and mobility and logistics divisions are combined
                                                                                  to form the mobility division. the mobility division also i­ ncludes
      in fiscal 2014, the sector consisted of five divisions: rail sys-           the rail electrification business of the former smart grid division.
      tems; mobility and logistics; low and medium voltage; smart
      grid; and building technologies. financial results of the rail              the business activities of the former low and medium volt-
      systems and the mobility and logistics divisions were com-                  age division supply public energy providers, industrial compa-
      bined and reported together as the results of the sector’s trans-            nies and municipal utilities with a complete range of products,
      portation & logistics business. financial results of the divisions          systems and solutions for power distribution infrastructures.
      low and medium voltage and smart grid were combined and                     our portfolio includes highly reliable power supply solutions
      reported together as the sector’s power grid solutions & prod-              for conventional power plants and renewable energy systems
      ucts business.                                                              as well as intelligent, compact substations for urban and rural
                                                                                  distribution networks. we also offer energy-efficient solutions
      the offerings of the former rail systems division comprise                  for heavy industry, the oil & gas industry and the process
      siemens’ rail vehicle business – including high-speed trains,               ­industry. energy-efficient solutions and energy storage systems
      commuter trains, passenger coaches, metros, people movers,                   for the integration of renewable energies into power grids
      light rail vehicles, locomotives, bogies, traction systems and               round off our portfolio. business activities included in our low
      rail-related services. we combine our expertise in the fields of             and medium voltage division generally tend to react quickly to
      mass transit, regional and long-distance transportation, driver-             changes in the overall economic environment.
      less systems, traction systems, bogies and onboard power
      ­supplies in order to offer comprehensive know-how for reliable             beginning with fiscal 2015, the business activities of the former
       and efficient rail vehicles.                                               low and medium voltage division are included in the new
                                                                                  ­energy management division.
      the business activities of the former mobility and logistics
      division hold leading positions as global providers of the inte-            the business activities of the former smart grid division offer
      grated technologies that enable people and goods to be trans-               power providers, network operators, industrial enterprises and
      ported safely, efficiently and in an environmentally friendly               cities an end-to-end portfolio of products and solutions for
      manner. our offerings encompass rail automation and intelli-                ­developing intelligent grid infrastructures. smart grids enable
      gent traffic and transportation systems. the products, services              a bidirectional flow of energy and information. they are re-
      and it-based solutions in our portfolio combine innovation                   quired for the integration of more renewable energy sources
      with comprehensive industry know-how. in fiscal 2014, our of-                into conventional power transmission and distribution net-
      ferings also comprised our airport logistics business for cargo              works. in addition, power providers can run their plants more
      tracking and baggage handling and our postal automation                      efficiently with data gained from smart grids. software solu-
      business for letter and parcel sorting. in the third quarter of              tions that analyze data from smart grids will continuously gain
      fiscal 2014, siemens announced that it no longer intends to sell             importance. our offerings include both in-house technology
      this business. the activities are to be carved out and operated              development and systems from software partners. the principal
      as a separate business under the siemens umbrella so that this               ­customers are power producers, grid operators, multi utilities,




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.    combined ­management report
178
                                                                                                         172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                         187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                         193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                         205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                         210   c.5   net assets position

cities and rail operators. changes in the overall economic envi-                            financial services
ronment generally have a delayed effect on our business activ-                              financial services (sfs) provides business-to-business finan-
ities. furthermore, parts of our businesses are driven by public                            cial solutions. with its specialist financing and technology
spending. customers in the public sector usually have multi-                                ­expertise in the areas of siemens businesses, sfs supports cus-
year planning and implementation horizons, and their contract                                tomer investments with leasing solutions and equipment,
tenders therefore tend to be independent of short-term eco-                                  project and structured financing. sfs provides capital for
nomic trends.                                                                                siemens customers as well as other companies and manages
                                                                                             financial risks of siemens.
beginning with fiscal 2015, all businesses of the former smart
grid division except for the rail electrification business are in-                           sfs operates the corporate treasury of the siemens group,
cluded in the new energy management division. as described                                   which includes managing liquidity, cash and interest risks as
above, the rail electrification business is included in the new                              well as certain foreign exchange, credit and commodities risks.
mobility division as of fiscal 2015.                                                         business activities and tasks of corporate treasury are reported
                                                                                             in the segment information within reconciliation to consoli-
the building technologies division is a leading provider of                                  dated financial statements. for further information on corpo-
automation technologies and services for safe, secure and effi-                              rate treasury activities see    c.4.1 principles and objectives of

cient buildings and infrastructures throughout the lifecycle of                             ­f inancial management .

buildings. the division offers products, solutions and services
for fire safety, security, building automation, heating, venti­
lation, air conditioning and energy management. the large                                   c.1.2 economic environment
­customer base is widely-dispersed. it includes public and com­
 mercial building owners, operators and tenants, building con-                              c.1.2.1 worldwide economic environment
 struction general contractors and system houses. changes in                                fiscal year 2014 started with a divergent global economic
 the overall economic environment generally have a delayed                                  ­development. while emerging countries showed a mixed pic-
 effect on our business activities.                                                          ture with growth slowing down in the bric countries (brasil,
                                                                                             russia, india, china), early economic indicators in many indus-
at the beginning of fiscal 2015, the building technologies divi-                             trial economies (u.s., u.k., japan, countries of the euro zone)
sion includes the same business activities as it did at the end of                           signaled improvements. in the euro zone, years of economic
fiscal 2014.                                                                                 stagnation and ­recession seemed set to come to an end. given
                                                                                             the importance of these “heavy weights” for the world econ-
equity investments                                                                           omy, expectations for fiscal 2014 were quite positive. indeed,
in fiscal 2014, equity investments in general comprised equity                               with growth of 2.8 % year-over-year, global gross domestic
stakes held by siemens that are accounted for by the equity                                  product (gdp) growth had accelerated in the second half of cal-
method or as available-for-sale financial assets and that for                                endar 2013 compared to the first half, when gdp grew by 2.1 %
strategic reasons are not allocated to a sector or a division, re-                           year-over-year. however, these promising prospects did not
spectively, sfs, centrally managed portfolio activities, siemens                             materialize in 2014 for several unforeseeable reasons. the un-
real estate (sre), corporate items or corporate treasury. our                                usually strong winter of 2013 / 2014 disrupted large parts of the
main investments within equity investments were our 50 %                                     u.s. economy and led to negative gdp growth in the u.s. in the
stake in bsh bosch und siemens hausgeräte gmbh (bsh), our                                    first quarter of calendar 2014. with the start of calendar 2014,
17 % stake in osram licht ag (osram), our 12 % stake in atos se                              the first of a series of geopolitical conflicts escalated: the con-
(atos) and our 49 % stake in enterprise networks holdings                                    flict in ukraine brought about substantial uncertainty for the
b.v. (en), which in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, was re-                               whole year. in the middle east, several military conflicts got
named unify holdings b.v. (unify). in the fourth quarter of fiscal                           worse: israel and palestinians again went to war; libya fell back
2014, siemens signed an agreement to sell its stake in bsh to                                into political chaos; the militant group “islamic state” made sig-
robert bosch gmbh. the transaction is expected to be com-                                    nificant military ­advances in syria and iraq and triggered an
pleted in the first half of calendar 2015. equity investments                                american-led intervention. all these shocks to the global eco­n­
ceased to be a reportable segment beginning with fiscal 2015.                                omy led to increased uncertainty and weighed on global econ­
as of october 1, 2014, equity stakes formerly included in equity                             omic activity. accordingly, global gdp grew only by 2.7 % and
investments are reported within centrally managed portfolio                                  not by 3.2 % as expected in october 2013. the slowdown of fixed
activities, which are part of the reconciliation to consolidated                             investment growth and value added manufacturing growth –
financial statements.                                                                        both impor­tant indicators for siemens as a producer of capital
                                                                                             goods – was even stronger: fixed investments grew by only




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    179
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      3.6 % in 2014 and not by 5.2 % as expected in october 2013,                                             reflecting slower growth in china (7.3 % against 8 % expected
      global value added in manufacturing grew by only 3.5 % and                                              last year), which is largely explained by continued downturns
      not by the ­expected 4.0 %, hurting siemens’ industrial and                                             in real estate and manufacturing investment. india suffered
      energy-­related businesses in particular.                                                               from investment shifts before the general election that took
                                                                                                              place from april to may 2014.
      from a geographical perspective, the region europe, c.i.s.,
      ­africa, middle east was the only of our three reporting regions                                              real gdp growth per region (change in % compared to prior year) 1

       delivering faster gdp growth in 2014 than in 2013. however,                                                                    world     europe, c.i.s.,3           americas             asia,
                                                                                                                                                        africa,                              australia
       with 1.6 % the level of growth is still lower than in the other re-                                                                         middle east
       porting regions. in addition, last year’s expectation was 0.5 per-
                                                                                                                    5                                                                        4.8 4.9
       centage points higher. the main reasons for the disappointing
                                                                                                                    4
       performance are the still very sluggish development in europe,
                                                                                                                    3            2.7 2.6
       in particular the euro zone, and recessions in both russia and                                                                                                      2.0 2.3
                                                                                                                    2                                   1.6
       ukraine. in germany, the fiscal year started promisingly with                                                                                          1.1
                                                                                                                     1
       sentiment indicators continuously improving, followed by a
       strong first quarter of calendar 2014 (which was partly due to
       mild winter weather). however, in the course of year 2014 the                                                        2014 2             2013
       uncertainties caused by the geopolitical conflicts increasingly                                              1 source: siemens ag, based on an ihs global insight as of october 15, 2014.
       weighed on economic activity and slowed down gdp growth                                                         growth rates provided by calendar year.
                                                                                                                    2 estimate for calendar year 2014.
       for the full year.
                                                                                                                    3 commonwealth of independent states.


      in the americas region, growth slowed down slightly to 2.0 %.
      a year earlier, the expectation was for growth of 2.7 %. the                                            the partly estimated figures presented here for gdp, fixed
      harsh winter mentioned above, which reduced consumption                                                 invest­ments and manufacturing value added are calculated by
      and factory output in some areas of the u. s. and canada, was                                           siemens based on an ihs global insight report dated octo-
      one reason for the slowdown. in addition, the economies of                                              ber 15, 2014.
      most latin american countries grew substantially slower than
      estimated last year. for example gdp growth for brazil was                                              our businesses are dependent on the development of raw
      marked down from 3.1 % to a negative 0.1 % from october 2013                                            ­material prices. key materials to which we have significant cost
      to october 2014. the pattern was similar for argentina, chile,                                           exposure include copper, various grades and formats of steel,
      venezuela and peru. one important driver for this weak perfor-                                           and aluminum. in addition, within stainless steel we have
      mance was globally weaker commodity markets.                                                             ­exposure related to nickel and ferro-alloy materials.

      in asia, australia, gdp growth for calendar 2014 is estimated                                           the average monthly price of copper (denominated in € per
      at 4.8 %, virtually the same level as in previous years. compared                                       metric ton) for september 2014 was 1 % lower than the average
      to last year’s expectation this is 0.3 percentage points lower,                                                                                                  ­ verage
                                                                                                              monthly price in september 2013. prices on a fiscal-year a

             world real gdp growth (in % compared to previous ­period) 1

                                                2010                                    2011                              2012                                    2013                             2014

                 7
                 6
                 5       4.8 5.1
                                                 4.4
                 4                   3.7 3.5                             3.6                                                                         3.7
                                                                                        3.2                                                   3.3           3.2                         3.1 3.2
                 3                                                                                2.9                     2.6                                     2.6             2.7              2.7
                                                             2.4 2.5              2.4                         2.4                      2.5
                 2                                                                                      1.8         1.5                                                     1.4
                 1




                       quarterly gdp growth (seasonally adjusted annual rate)                     annual gdp growth
                                                                                                    
                       quarterly gdp growth forecast (seasonally adjusted annual rate)            annual gdp growth forecast
                                                                                                    
             1 siemens ag, based on an ihs global insight report as of october 15, 2014.




      108   a.       to our shareholders                                  131     b.     corporate ­governance                                 171    c.      combined ­management report
180
                                                                                                                                               172    c.1     business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                               187    c.2     financial performance system
                                                                                                                                               193    c.3     results of operations
                                                                                                                                               205    c.4     financial position
                                                                                                                                               210    c.5     net assets position

were still 10 % lower in fiscal 2014 than the average for fiscal                                 c.1.2.2 market development
2013, reflecting modest demand during fiscal 2014.                                               in fiscal 2014, the addressed market of our energy sector devel-
                                                                                                 oped stable year-over-year. wind power markets showed the
average monthly prices of aluminum traded on the london                                          strongest growth (both onshore and offshore). markets for
metal exchange recently rebounded and were 17 % higher                                           power transmission grew slightly while market volume for
in september 2014 compared to september 2013. prices on a                                        large gas turbines declined year-over-year.
fiscal-­year average were nevertheless 8 % lower in fiscal 2014
than the average of fiscal 2013. significantly rising premiums                                   markets of the power generation division declined in fiscal
for physically delivered aluminum have added to the prices of                                    2014 compared to fiscal 2013. in particular the advanced gas
the london metal exchange contracts. the aluminum industry                                       turbine market remained difficult with a market size in fiscal
is in a situation of a global oversupply due to rapid expansion                                  2014 clearly below fiscal 2013. in addition, production over­
of capacities, while regional markets in the western world face                                  capacities have been resulting in increased price pressure.
a tighter supply.                                                                                during the fiscal year, the overall market environment for fossil
                                                                                                 power generation faced project shifts in various regions lead-
the average monthly steel prices for september 2014 declined                                     ing to tough competition. while key countries such as the
by 8 % compared to the average monthly prices in septem-                                         u.s. or china have been facing market delays, countries of the
ber 2013. prices on a fiscal-year average were 7 % lower in fiscal                               ­middle east, especially saudi-arabia showed higher invest-
2014 than the average for fiscal 2013.                                                            ments in gas-fired power plants year-over-year. demand for
                                                                                                  ­industrial gas and steam turbines developed roughly flat.
our main exposure to the prices of copper, aluminum and
­related products is in the new divisions energy management                                      markets served by our wind power division grew clearly in fis-
 and process industries and drives. our main price exposure                                      cal 2014 fueled by strong demand in europe, which is the most
 ­related to carbon steel and stainless steel is in our new divi-                                mature geographic market in the world for onshore and off-
  sions power and gas and wind power and renewables. in addi-                                    shore wind power. in particular, europe is home to almost all
  tion, siemens is generally exposed to energy and fuel prices,                                  offshore installations currently active worldwide. within the
  both directly (electricity, gas, oil) and indirectly (energy used                              americas, growth in the u.s. was driven by onshore wind proj-
  in the manufacturing processes of suppliers, fuels included in                                 ects, following the extension of an existing production tax
  logistics costs).                                                                              credit (ptc) for renewable energy into the first quarter of fiscal
                                                                                                 2014. market development in the asia, australia region was
siemens employs various strategies to reduce the price risk in                                   characterized by intense local competition, particularly in
its project and product businesses, such as long-term contract-                                  china. while china has the largest wind market in the world,
ing with suppliers, physical and financial hedging and price                                     market access for foreign companies remains to be very diffi-
escalation clauses with customers.                                                               cult and limited. the competitive situation in the wind power

        development of raw material prices (index: beginning of fiscal 2010 = 100)

                                    fy 2010                            fy 2011                           fy 2012                        fy 2013                              fy 2014

      170
      160
      150
      140
      130
      120
      110
      100
      90
      80




                 copper             aluminium (hg)             steel hrc
        source: london metal exchange (lme) for copper and aluminium, cru hrc germany for steel; cash prices in € per ton.




                                                                                                                             247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                             337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                       181
213    c.6    overall assessment of the economic position       242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                      c.10 c
214    c.7    subsequent events                                 242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                      c.11 s
215    c.8    sustainability and citizenship                               of ­german ­commercial code)
225    c.9   report on expected developments and
              ­associated material opportunities and risks

      markets differs between the market segments. in the market                 china are experiencing a shift in demand, from an emphasis on
      for onshore wind farms, competition is widely dispersed with-              large clinics to increased investment in small and midsize
      out any one company holding a dominant share of the market.                ­regional clinics. along with this change, competitive and price
      in contrast, there are only a few major players in the market for           pressure rose, due mainly to increasing numbers of local ven-
      offshore wind farms, which are technologically more complex.                dors. overall, the trend toward consolidation in the healthcare
      several competitors have managed to return to profitability                 industry continues. competition among the leading companies
      through cost reduction measures and restructuring. previously               is strong, including with respect to price.
      existing overcapacities have been adjusted to better match
      ­demand. consolidation is moving forward in both on- and off-              in fiscal 2014, markets served by our industry sector, consist-
       shore wind power through the market exit of smaller players,              ing of our industry automation and drive technologies divi-
       and especially in offshore through joint ventures between                 sions, grew slightly year-over-year. at the beginning of the
       ­established players and new market entrants. the key drivers             ­fiscal year, growth came mainly from stronger demand in
        for consolidation are technology and market access challenges,            long-cycle industries and restocking by customers in china.
        which increase development costs and the importance of risk               ­towards the end of the fiscal year, demand also began to pick
        sharing in offshore wind power.                                            up in short-cycle industries. within the main industries served
                                                                                   by our divisions, demand in the automotive industry was par-
      markets addressed by our power transmission division grew                    ticularly strong, with many countries reporting significant in-
      slightly in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013, due mainly                  creases in production, especially in europe. the machine build-
      to strong demand from parts of europe and the middle east,                   ing industry developed less favorable in the beginning of the
      ­including germany, the u.k. and saudi arabia, where large                   fiscal year due to weaker growth in many emerging economies,
       transmission projects were awarded. in contrast, investments                which are important markets for export-oriented industrialized
       in russian electrical infrastructure went down significantly in             countries. in the last months of fiscal 2014, demand in the
       fiscal 2014. markets in asia remained stable year-over-year.                ­machine building industries picked up somewhat. on a regional
       while growth in china slowed down somewhat, india awarded                    basis, our markets in europe experienced a slight recovery in
       a new contract for a large high-voltage direct current (hvdc)                fiscal 2014, due to a more positive overall economic environ-
       project. on a currency-adjusted basis, market volume in the                  ment year-over-year, particularly including spain, poland and
       americas increased slightly year-over-year. including currency               the netherlands. while markets in germany grew year-over-
       translation effects, markets in the americas declined slightly               year, growth was held back by stagnation in original equip-
       year-over-year.                                                              ment manufacturing (oem) industries, which were i­mpacted
                                                                                    by lower demand from emerging markets. overall, demand in
      in fiscal 2014, markets served by our healthcare sector grew                  europe for industrial investment goods was held back as pro-
      slightly year-over-year. growth was again driven by emerging                  duction capacities of our customers still did not reach full utili-
      markets, which continued to build up their healthcare infra-                  zation. in the americas, except the u.s., growth in end-cus-
      structures and expand access to modern medical technology                     tomer markets slowed down in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal
      for a broader population. market development in industrialized                2013. this was particularly evident in brazil. within the u.s.,
      countries remained weak, impacted by healthcare reforms and                   demand in the oil and gas industries grew strongly. in contrast
      budgetary constraints. on a regional basis, markets in the                    markets for electrical investment goods expanded modestly.
      americas grew moderately. market conditions in our large u.s.                 within the asia, australia region, growth slowed down year-
      market remained challenging as service providers faced ongo-                  over-year in several countries, particularly including australia,
      ing pressure on utilization and reimbursement rates associated                india, indonesia and thailand. growth in china was solid year-
      with medical devices. the u.s. market for healthcare it contin-               over-year. while growth in china benefited from restocking ef-
      ues to grow, but at a slower pace than in previous years.                     fects, it was supported also by strong demand from the coun-
      healthcare markets in the europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east                 try’s automotive and infrastructure industries, and, to a lesser
      region declined slightly. during fiscal 2014, european health-                extent, by demand in parts of the construction machinery mar-
      care markets saw some stabilization. the market situation in                  kets and food machinery, elevators and rubber machines mar-
      germany was challenging. demand stagnated and price pres-                     kets. competition of industry ’s business activities can be
      sure was strong. decreasing public grants to the country ’s                   grouped into two categories: multinational companies that of-
      health insurance system is burdening the financial situation of               fer a relatively broad portfolio and companies that are active
      hospitals and thus their willingness to invest. growth in china               only in certain geographic or product markets. consolidation is
      slowed down compared to the previous fiscal year. markets in                  taking place mostly in particular market segments and not




      108   a.   to our shareholders               131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.    combined ­management report
182
                                                                                                        172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                        187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                        193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                        205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                        210   c.5   net assets position

across the broad base of our portfolio, with the exception of                               to fiscal 2013. within europe, non-residential construction
the acquisition of invensys by schneider electric. consolidation                            ­markets saw some stabilization in fiscal 2014, but remained
in solution-driven markets is going in the direction of in-depth                             weak due to the economic situation and austerity programs in
niche market expertise, whereas consolidation of the product-­                               some southern and western european countries. in contrast,
driven market follows the line of convergence. most major                                    markets in the middle east, in asia and australia grew consid-
competitors have established global bases for their businesses.                              erably year-over-year. in the americas, growth in non-residen-
in addition, competition has become increasingly f­ocused on                                 tial construction markets began to accelerate during the fiscal
technological improvements and cost position.                                                year. there is usually a time lag of three to four quarters be-
                                                                                             fore building technologies businesses begin to participate in
in fiscal 2014, the broad overall market for the offerings of the                            such growth.
infrastructure & cities sector grew slightly. the market for rail
systems showed growth, non-residential construction markets                                 infrastructure & cities principal competitors are multinational
were recovering, and the market for power grid solutions and                                companies. the sector also faces competition from niche com-
products remained challenging.                                                              petitors and from new entrants, such as utility companies and
                                                                                            consulting firms, exploiting the fragmented energy efficiency
markets served by the transportation & logistics business                                   market. the sector’s solution businesses also compete with en-
 grew moderately in fiscal 2014, fueled e.g. by large contract                              gineering, procurement and construction providers, and com-
awards in the u.k. and in saudi arabia within the europe, c.i.s.,                           petitors in the service field often include small local players.
africa, middle east region. europe remained the largest market
for the business. growth in the americas region benefited from
demand for passenger locomotives and urban transport prod-                                  c.1.3 strategy
ucts in the u.s. the asia, australia region showed the highest
growth rates of all regions. this growth was fueled, amongst                                c.1.3.1 vision 2020
others, by a recovery in china, which began to increase its                                 in may 2014, we presented our entrepreneurial concept
­investments in high-speed trains.                                                          “­vision 2020.”

in fiscal 2014, markets for our power grid solutions & prod-                                shaped by our history, culture and values, our mission defines
ucts business declined slightly year-over-year including weaker                             how we understand ourselves. as an expression of a strong
demand from some emerging markets countries. overall, the                                   brand, it formulates our aspiration: we make real what matters,
decline is caused by weak demand in the europe, c.i.s., africa,                             by setting the benchmark in the way we electrify, automate
middle east region. the market situation in southern europe                                 and digitalize the world around us. ingenuity drives us and
remained particularly challenging. in germany, which is under­                              what we create is yours. together we deliver.
taking a massive shift to renewable energy (“energie­wende”),
utilities continued to delay major grid investments due to un-                              there are three stages in which we will lead our company into
certainty in the regulatory environment. the americas re-                                   the future:
ported modest growth in real terms, particularly in the u.s.,
where the economy is gaining momentum in construction and                                   >> in the short term, we want to “drive performance.” to
oil and gas markets. the overall market development was more                                   achieve this aim, we are retailoring our structures and re-
positive in the asia, australia region, particularly including                                 sponsibilities. we are also focusing on business excellence.
­demand in the utility business within emerging economies.                                     in addition, we want to get those businesses back on track
 furthermore, markets in the oil and gas business and in the                                   that have not reached their full potential and make them
 non-residential construction business grew year-over-year, par-                               competitive again.
 ticularly in china.                                                                        >> “strengthen core” is our aim in the medium term. we in-
                                                                                               tend to strengthen our successful businesses along the value
in fiscal 2014, markets addressed by our building technol­                                     chain of electrification by, among other things, allocating
ogies division grew slightly in aggregate year-over-year. within                               ­resources in a more rigorous way in order to expand in
our non-residential construction markets, some segments                                         ­strategic growth fields.
­developed more favorably than the market overall. among                                    >> in the long term, we want to “scale up.” we will intensify our
 them were data centers and the pharmaceutical industry,                                         efforts to seize further growth opportunities and tap new
 which showed clear growth in construction activities ­compared                                  fields.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    183
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      we have linked the success of vision 2020 to the attainment of              b) customer and business focus
      seven overarching goals:                                                    we expect that the megatrends digital transformation, global-
                                                                                  ization, urbanization, demographic change and climate change
      >> implement stringent corporate governance: we want to                     will provide growth opportunities. we are focusing on our posi-
         simplify and accelerate our processes, while reducing com-               tioning along the value chain of electrification. this is where
         plexity in our company and strengthening our corporate                   our core business lies. from power generation to power trans-
         ­governance functions. we expect that these measures en-                 mission, power distribution and smart grid to the efficient
          able us to reduce our costs by roughly € 1 billion. the savings         ­application of electrical energy – in every one of these inter­
          are ­expected to be mainly effective in fiscal 2016.                     related fields, electrification, automation and digitalization are
      >> create value sustainably: we are tapping attractive growth                the key business drivers.
          fields and getting those businesses that have not yet reached
          their full potential back on track.                                     >> power generation: the field of efficient power generation –
      >> execute financial target system: we are rigorously imple-                   encompassing conventional and renewable energy sources
          menting our financial target system.                                       as well as comprehensive services – is addressed by our
      >> expand global management: to reflect our global orienta-                    ­divisions power and gas, wind power and renewables, and
          tion more strongly in the future, we want more than 30 % of                 power generation services.
          our division and business unit managers to be based outside             >> power transmission, power distribution and smart grid:
          germany.                                                                    solutions for power transmission and distribution as well as
      >> be partner of choice for our customers: we want to be our                    technologies for smart grids are all bundled at our energy
          customers’ partner of choice. to measure customer satisfac-                 management division.
          tion, we use the net promoter score (nps) – a comprehensive             >> energy application: our divisions building technologies,
          customer satisfaction survey that we conduct every year. our                mobility, digital factory and process industries and drives
          goal is to improve our score by at least 20 %.                              are delivering technologies for the efficient application of
      >> be an employer of choice: highly committed and satisfied                     energy in building technology, transportation and industry.
          employees are the basis of our success. we are – and want to            >> imaging and in-vitro diagnostics: healthcare is responsible
          remain – an attractive employer. that is why we conduct a                   for our medical imaging and in-vitro diagnostics businesses.
          global engagement survey to measure employee satisfaction.
          in the categories leadership and diversity, we aim to achieve           in all areas related to project financing, financial services is a
          an approval rating of over 75 % on a sustainable b­ asis.               reliable partner to our customers.
      >> foster an ownership culture: in the future, our employees
          will have an even greater stake in their company ’s success.            we want to set clear priorities for resource allocation and
          we want to increase the current number of employee share-               ­address promising growth fields, for example:
          holders by at least 50 %.
                                                                                  >> flexible and small gas turbines;
      c.1.3.2 strategic framework                                                 >> offshore wind power;
      we have defined a comprehensive strategic framework that                    >> distribution grid automation and software;
      ­integrates the key fields of company management. these key                 >> urban and interurban mobility;
       fields are:                                                                >> digital-twin software;
                                                                                  >> key sectors in process industries;
      >> ownership culture;                                                       >> image-guided therapy and molecular diagnostics; and
      >> customer and business focus;                                             >> business analytics and data-driven services, software and
      >> governance; and                                                             it solutions.
      >> our management model “one siemens.”
                                                                                   flexible and small gas turbines: in the area of power genera-
      a) ownership culture                                                        tion, the trend is increasingly toward decentralized energy
      one engine of sustainable business is our ownership culture,                ­supply. customers worldwide are relying more and more on
      in which every employee takes personal responsibility for our                individualized energy supplies and demanding tailor-made
                                                            ­ ompany” –
      company’s success. “always act as if it were your own c                      solutions. as a result, we see major growth potential in the
      this maxim applies to everyone at siemens, from m       ­ anaging            field of flexible and small gas turbines.
      board member to trainee.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
184
                                                                                                        172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                        187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                        193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                        205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                        210   c.5   net assets position

offshore wind power: among renewable sources of energy,                                     customers’ business processes. in the future, we want to lever-
wind power will play a key role over the long term. offshore                                age this knowledge even better by analyzing the data gener-
wind turbines deliver high yields and are subject to less fluctu-                           ated in these processes, providing recommendations for im-
ation than other renewables. we want to continue building on                                provement and action, and thus creating value. the resulting
the leading position in offshore wind power that we have cap-                               competitive advantages for our customers are increasingly
tured in recent years. we consider double-digit market growth                               ­
                                                                                            derived from cloud-based solutions and services powered
realistic in this field in the medium term.                                                 by data-analytics software.

distribution grid automation and software: energy manage-                                   c) governance
ment is becoming increasingly vital – for distribution grids as                             we want to lead siemens in such a way that we focus on our
well as industrial and private energy producers and consumers.                              customers at all times and further expand our market penetra-
energy management systems make it possible to integrate in-                                 tion while maintaining lean and flexible structures. that is why
creasingly decentralized power supplies into the energy cycle,                              we have selected a market-integrative setup that combines a
while mitigating the negative impact of the fluctuations that                               common regional organization with a coordinated vertical
occur when power is generated from renewable sources – thus                                 ­approach. against this backdrop, we have retailored the struc-
improving the utilization of existing power grids. our intelli-                              tures and responsibilities of our businesses, our regions and
gent, integrated automation solutions offer customers decisive                               our corporate governance functions:
added value.
                                                                                            >> we have removed layers from our company, thus bringing
urban and interurban mobility: in strong demand, intelligent                                   our businesses closer to customers and key markets. we re-
mobility solutions are providing major impulses for growth –                                   placed our 14 regional clusters with 30 lead countries. the
particularly in the areas of urban transportation and automated                                ceos of these countries now report directly to our managing
traffic-control solutions. we see stronger growth potential in                                 board.
this area as well.                                                                          >> we have also eliminated the sector level and consolidated
                                                                                               our business activities into nine divisions and one separately
digital-twin software: the virtual and real worlds are merging                                 managed unit, healthcare. this change is increasing our
more and more. already today, our software solutions are help-                                 ­customer proximity and accelerating our decision-making.
ing customers develop products much faster, more flexibly and                               >> in addition, we have made governance even more stringent
more efficiently. not only products but also the plants in which                                across all levels of our organization. our managing board
they are produced have digital twins that can be used to co­                                    leads the company and maintains the balance between our
ordinate and integrate product design and production plan-                                      businesses and regions. it is supported by strong, efficient
ning. the digital models are always up-to-date – as planned, as                                 governance functions, our corporate core. this corporate
built, as maintained – while allowing improvements through-                                     core ensures fast, unbureaucratic decision-making across
out entire lifecycles.                                                                          key company functions.

key sectors in process industries: some industry sectors –                                  d) management model “one siemens”
oil & gas and food & beverage, for example – are growing at                                 to enable us to manage our company more effectively, we have
above-average rates. we want to participate in this growth.                                 expanded “one siemens” into an integrated management
that is why we are bundling our expertise in process industries                             model that combines under one roof the overarching targets
and drive technologies and continuing to expand our related                                 and priorities with which we are implementing our strategy
portfolio of products and software solutions.                                               throughout the company. it encompasses a financial frame-
                                                                                            work, an operating system and corporate memory as well as
image-guided therapy and molecular diagnostics: the in-                                     sustainability and citizenship.
creasing use of molecular biological methods and progress in
the life sciences are accelerating technological change in health-                          financial framework
care. to improve quality and efficiency, societies worldwide are                            to measure and compare our development against the market
also demanding new solutions for next-generation healthcare.                                and in our competitive environment, we used a system of
                                                                                            ­defined key indicators. we have now refined and expanded
business analytics and data-driven services, software and                                    this financial target system, which is explained in more detail
it solutions: we have a comprehensive understanding of our                                   in     c.2 financial performance system .




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    185
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      operating system and corporate memory                                       these tools enable us, for instance, to benchmark our per­
      we manage our company in accordance with specific, clearly                  formance against the best and to increase our productivity.
      defined priorities. our one siemens operating system sets the               ­t ightening our risk management approach is helping us iden-
      following four priorities: customer proximity, innovation, busi-             tify project risks while still in the bidding phase and thus
      ness excellence, as well as people excellence and care. in addi-             avoid costly project delays. last but not least, we are fostering
      tion, the corporate memory – our knowledge management –                      our service business across organizational boundaries – for
      ensures that we learn from mistakes and keep our work focused                ­example, by developing service platforms.
      on success.
                                                                                  people excellence and care: excellent employees are the
      customer proximity: profitable growth is based on proximity                 heart and soul of siemens. that is how it has always been. and
      to our customers and on an understanding of their individual                we want it to be even more so in the future. therefore we are
      requirements. to meet and exceed our customers’ expecta-                    anchoring an ownership culture at our company. for us, this is
      tions, we invest in local sales presence and support for spe-               not an abstract idea but a concrete goal that we are pursuing
      cific groups of market partners. our key account management                 with measures we can track. after all, the behavior, motivation
      ­approach is just one successful example of this. we are repre-             and values of the people who work for siemens mold our cul-
       sented in virtually every country in the world by regional com-            ture. in an attractive working environment, we promote lifelong
       panies that operate as local partners to our customers. we also            learning and personal development. integrity – supported by a
       exploit our in-depth knowledge of customer processes and                   well-established compliance system – remains the prin­ciple
       continually develop our offerings for key verticals in a targeted          that guides our conduct. our share programs are enabling us
       manner – across organizational boundaries. to regularly gauge              to increase employee participation in our company’s s­ uccess,
       the satisfaction of our customers around the world, we use a               while bringing us closer every day to a lived ownership culture.
       uniform measure, the net promoter score.
                                                                                  sustainability and citizenship
      innovation: innovation is essential for ensuring long-term                  we contribute to sustainable development by maintaining a
      competitiveness. this applies to our entire portfolio of prod-              ­responsible balance at company level between profit, planet
      ucts, solutions and services. added value for our customers is               and people.
      based increasingly on software and it solutions. as a result, we
      have made this field a particular focus of our attention – for              >> profit: by having a range of products, solutions and services
      example, through research and development activities in soft-                  that makes a difference worldwide, because it provides cus-
      ware architecture and platforms. tools such as partner net-                    tomers with decisive competitive advantages.
      works are enabling us to manage highly effective innovation                 >> planet: by utilizing our planet’s limited resources responsibly
      processes and an open innovation culture. we are concentrat-                   and by enabling our customers to improve their own environ-
      ing on new technology-driven growth areas as well as innova-                   mental performance.
      tive business models.                                                       >> people: by living a culture that strengthens our employees’
                                                                                     sense of responsibility worldwide, fosters their development
      business excellence: we want to do an excellent job of man-                    and places integrity at the center of our company’s activities.
      aging our businesses while pursuing our aim of continuous                      as good corporate citizens, we are also contributing to the
      improvement. for this, we have developed outstanding tools                     sustainable development of society through our portfolio, our
      that we intend to apply with even greater rigor in the future.                 local presence worldwide and our role as a thought leader.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
186
                                                                                                        172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                        187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                        193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                        205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                        210   c.5   net assets position

         c.2  financial performance system


c.2.1 overview                                                                                                adjusted ebitda margins 1

                                                                                                                                     margin                                               target range
within one siemens, we have established a financial frame-
                                                                                                     energy
work – for revenue growth, for profitability and capital effi-
                                                                                                       fy 2014                        8.1%
ciency, for our capital structure, and for our dividend policy.                                                                                                                            10 – 15%
                                                                                                       fy 2013                        9.9%

                                                                                                     healthcare
c.2.2 revenue growth                                                                                   fy 2014                       20.5%
                                                                                                                                                                                           15 – 20%
                                                                                                       fy 2013                       20.7%
within the framework of one siemens, we aim to grow our rev-
                                                                                                     industry
enue faster than the average weighted revenue growth of our
                                                                                                       fy 2014                       16.4%
most relevant competitors. in fiscal 2014, we calculated our rev-                                                                                                                          11 – 17%
                                                                                                       fy 2013                       13.1%
enue growth for this comparison using actual revenue as pre-
sented in the consolidated financial statements. our primary                                         infrastructure & cities

measure for managing and controlling our revenue growth is                                             fy 2014                        9.4%
                                                                                                                                                                                            8 – 12%
comparable growth, which excludes currency translation and                                             fy 2013                        3.7%

portfolio effects. we provide figures for both comparable and
actual revenue growth in this annual report, within         c.3.1                                             1 adjusted ebitda margins of respective markets through business cycle.
                                                                                                                    target range
­o rders and revenue by region .


         revenue growth                                                                              in line with common practice in the financial services busi-
                                                                                                     ness, our financial indicator for measuring capital efficiency at
 revenue current ­period                                                                             ­financial services (sfs) is return on equity after tax, or roe
		                           – 1   × 100 %
  revenue prior-year ­period                                                                          (after tax). for information on the calculation of roe (after
                                                                                                      tax) and its components, see      c.2.6.1 return on equit y (roe)

                                                                                                      (­a fter tax) .
actual
 fy 2014                         (2)%                                                                         return on equity (roe) (after tax)
 fy 2013                         (2)%

comparable 1                                                                                              sfs’ profit after tax
 fy 2014                           1%                                                                                                               × 100%
                                                                                                          sfs’ average allocated equity
 fy 2013                         (1)%


         1   excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                                     fy 2014                       18.1%
                                                                                                       fy 2013                       17.1%


c.2.3 profitability and capital efficiency                                                                          target range: 15 – 20%



within the framework of one siemens, we aim to achieve mar-                                          for purposes of managing and controlling profitability at the
gins through the entire business cycle that are comparable to                                        group level, we use net income as our primary measure. this
those of our relevant competitors. for purposes of this compar-                                      measure is the main driver of basic earnings per share (eps)
ison in fiscal 2014, we used defined adjusted ebitda margin                                          from net income, which we use for communicating with
ranges, which are based on the results of the respective rele-                                       the capital markets. for an analysis of this measure, refer to
vant competitors of our four sectors. information regarding                                             c.3.3 income .

the calculation of adjusted ebitda is presented in         c.3.4

­r econciliation to adjusted ebitda .




                                                                                                                                       247     d.    consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                       337     e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                         187
213   c.6     overall assessment of the economic position            242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                           c.10 c
214   c.7     subsequent events                                      242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                           c.11 s
215   c.8     sustainability and citizenship                                    of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9    report on expected developments and
              ­associated material opportunities and risks

      beginning with fiscal 2015, we defined profit margin ranges for             within the framework of one siemens we seek to work profit-
      our industrial business (for the new organizational set up of               ably and as efficiently as possible with the capital provided by
      siemens, see      c.1.1.1 organization and basis of presentation ),         our shareholders and lenders. for purposes of managing and
      which are based on the profit margins of the respective rele-               controlling our capital efficiency in fiscal 2014, we used return
      vant competitors. their determination is based on our en-                   on capital employed, or roce, for continuing operations as
      hanced profit definition for our industrial business, which is              our primary measure. we aimed to achieve a range of 15 % to
      also effective beginning with fiscal 2015. in contrast to the               20 %. an analysis of this financial measure is provided in
      profit definition we used for fiscal 2014, the enhanced defini-                 c.3.3 income . for information on the calculation of roce and

      tion eliminates income statement effects resulting from amor-               its components, see        c.2.6.2 ­r eturn on capital employed (roce) .

      tization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
      this type of amortization is basically a technical consequence                        return on capital employed (roce)
                                                                                            (continuing operations)
      of the purchase price allocation resulting from an acquisition,
      and therefore has nearly no operational business relevance.
      moreover, by eliminating these income statement effects, we                         income from continuing operations before interest after tax
                                                                                                                                                                    × 100%
      improve the comparability of our industrial businesses’s profits                    average capital employed
      with that of their relevant competitors. beginning with fiscal
      2015, profit for sfs is also presented excluding amortization
      of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. except                   fy 2014                  17.2%

      for this adjustment, the profit definition remains ­unchanged.                   fy 2013                  13.7%


             profit margin ranges                                                                 target range: 15 – 20%

                                                                margin range
       power and gas                                               11 – 15%       beginning with fiscal 2015 and within the scope of further
       wind power and renewables                                      5 – 8%      develop­ment of one siemens, we intend to use roce for con-
       energy management                                            7 – 10%       tinuing and discontinued operations as the primary measure for
       building technologies                                        8 – 11%       managing and controlling our capital efficiency. going forward
       mobility                                                       6 – 9%      all activities of the group are included in this financial measure.
       digital factory                                             14 – 20%       we continue to aim for a roce in the range of 15 % to 20 %. roce
       process industries and drives                                8 – 12%       for continuing and discontinued operations amounted to 17.3 %
       healthcare                                                  15 – 19%       in fiscal 2014, compared to 13.5 % a year earlier.
       sfs (roe (after taxes))                                     15 – 20%




      beginning with fiscal 2015, we incorporated a measure called
      total cost productivity into our one siemens framework, to em-
      phasize and evaluate our continuous efforts to improve produc-
      tivity. we define this measure as the ratio of cost savings from
      defined productivity improvement measures to the aggregate
      of functional costs for the siemens group. we aim to achieve
      an annual value of 3 % to 5 % for total cost productivity.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                               171       c.    combined ­management report
188
                                                                                                                   172       c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                   187       c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                   193       c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                   205       c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                   210       c.5   net assets position

c.2.4 capital structure                                                                     at the annual shareholders’ meeting, the managing board, in
                                                                                            agreement with the supervisory board, will submit the follow-
sustainable revenue and profit development is supported by a                                ing proposal to allocate the unappropriated net income of
healthy capital structure. a key consideration within the frame-                            siemens ag for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2014: to
work of one siemens is to maintain ready access to the capital                              distribute a dividend of € 3.30 on each share of no-par value
markets through various debt products and preserve our ability                              entitled to the dividend for fiscal year 2014 existing at the date
to repay and service our debt obligations over time. our pri-                               of the annual shareholders’ meeting, with the remaining
mary measure for managing and controlling our capital struc-                                amount to be carried forward. payment of the proposed divi-
ture is the ratio of industrial net debt to adjusted ebitda.                                dend is contingent upon approval by siemens shareholders
this financial measure indicates the approximate amount of                                  at the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 27, 2015. the
time in years that would be needed to cover industrial net debt                             prior-­year dividend was € 3.00 per share.
through income from continuing operations, without taking
into account interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. in                             the proposed dividend of € 3.30 per share for fiscal 2014 rep-
fiscal 2014, we aimed to achieve a ratio in the range of 0.5 to                             resents a total payout of € 2.706 billion based on the estimated
1.0. for more information regarding adjusted ebitda and for an                              number of shares entitled to dividend at the date of the annual
analysis of our capital structure ratio, see      c.3.4 reconcilia-                         shareholders’ meeting. based on net income of € 5.507 billion
tion to adjusted ebitda and     c.4.2 capital structure .                                   for fiscal 2014, the dividend payout percentage is 49 %. the per-
                                                                                            centage for fiscal 2013 was 57 %, based on a total dividend pay-
       capital structure (continuing operations)                                            out of € 2.533 billion and a net income of € 4.409 billion.

                                                                                                    dividend payout percentage
      industrial net debt

      adjusted ebitda
                                                                                                 total dividend payout
                                                                                                                         × 100%
                                                                                                 net income
 fy 2014                       0.15
 fy 2013                       0.35
                                                                                              fy 2014                49%
              target range: 0.5 – 1.0                                                        fy 2013                57%


beginning with fiscal 2015, we intend to achieve a ratio of up to
1.0, and thereby maintain our healthy capital structure.
                                                                                            in november 2013, we announced a share buyback of up to
                                                                                            € 4 billion ending latest on october 31, 2015. in may 2014, we
c.2.5 dividend and share buybacks                                                           started to repurchase shares. through the end of fiscal 2014,
                                                                                            outlays for our publicly announced share buybacks (excluding
we intend to continue providing an attractive return to share-                              incidental transaction charges) totaled € 1.079 billion and repre-
holders. in fiscal 2014, we intended to propose a dividend pay-                             sent 20 % of net income.
out which, combined with outlays during the fiscal year for
publicly announced share buybacks, results in a sum represent-                              the percentage for fiscal 2013 was 26 % with outlays for share
ing 40 % to 60 % of net income, which for this purpose we may                               buybacks in the amount of € 1.152 billion.
adjust to exclude selected exceptional non-cash effects.
                                                                                            beginning with fiscal 2015, we intend to realize a dividend pay-
                                                                                            out range, without the effect of share buybacks, of 40 % to 60 %
                                                                                            of net income, which for this purpose we may adjust to exclude
                                                                                            selected exceptional non-cash effects. as in the past, we intend
                                                                                            to fund the dividend payout from free cash flow.




                                                                                                                     247   d.     consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                     337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       189
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      c.2.6 additional information
      for ­financial performance measures
      c.2.6.1 return on equity (roe) (after tax)
      the following table reports the calculation of roe (after tax) of
      sfs as defined under one siemens.



                                                                                                                                                                                         year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                                      2014              2013
       calculation of income taxes of sfs
       profit of sfs (income before income taxes, ibit)                                                                                                                                        465               409
       less: income of sfs from investments ­accounted for using the equity method, net 1                                                                                                       (66)              (85)
       less: tax-free income components and others 2                                                                                                                                            (41)              (26)
       tax basis                                                                                                                                                                               358               298
       tax rate (flat)                                                                                                                                                                        30%                30%
            calculated income taxes of sfs                                                                                                                                                     107                 89
       profit after tax of sfs
       profit of sfs (ibit)                                                                                                                                                                    465               409
       less: calculated income taxes of sfs                                                                                                                                                   (107)               (89)
            profit after tax of sfs                                                                                                                                                            357               320
       roe (after tax) of sfs
       (i) profit after tax of sfs                                                                                                                                                             357               320
       (ii) average allocated equity of sfs 3                                                                                                                                               1,976              1,874
            (i) / (ii) roe (after tax) of sfs                                                                                                                                               18.1%             17.1%


               1 for information on income (loss) of sfs from invest­                 are classified from at equity to available-for-sale financial    3 average allocated equity of sfs for a fiscal year is deter­
                  ments accounted for using the equity method net,                     assets and are therefore not included in the (income) loss          mined as a five-point average in allocated equity of sfs
                  see c.3.4 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda .                        of sfs from investments accounted for using the equity              of the respective quarters starting with the allocated
                                                                                       method, net. such results are already taxed or generally            equity of sfs as of september 30 of the previous fiscal
               2 tax-free income components include forms of financing
                                                                                       tax free. ­others may also comprise an adjustment for               year.
                  which are generally exempted from income taxes.
                                                                                       material taxable income (loss) of sfs from investments
                  others comprise result components related to the
                                                                                       accounted for using the equity method, net.
                  ­(partial) sale/divestment of equity investments, which




      108    a.    to our shareholders                                      131   b.       corporate ­governance                                       171   c.    combined ­management report
190
                                                                                                                                                       172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                                       187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                                                       193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                                                       205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                                                       210   c.5   net assets position

c.2.6.2 return on capital employed (roce)
as part of one siemens, we managed and controlled our capital
efficiency in fiscal 2014 using the financial measure roce for
continuing operations. the following tables report this financial
measure as defined under one siemens and also provide a rec-
onciliation to roce for continuing and discontinued operations.



 (in millions of €)                                                                                            09/30/2014       06/30/2014          03/31/2014         12/31/2013       09/30/2013
 capital employed fiscal 2014
 total equity                                                                                                     31,514            28,633             28,336            30,372            28,625
 plus: long-term debt                                                                                             19,326            18,364             18,587            18,377            18,509
 plus: short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt                                                    1,620             4,092              3,757             2,883             1,944
 less: cash and cash equivalents                                                                                  (8,013)            (8,210)           (8,585)           (8,885)           (9,190)
 less: current available-for-sale financial assets                                                                   (925)             (907)              (799)             (666)             (601)
 plus: post-employment benefits                                                                                    9,324            10,473              9,614             8,771             9,265
 less: sfs debt                                                                                                  (18,663)           (17,017)          (16,428)          (16,022)          (15,600)
 less: fair value hedge accounting adjustment 1                                                                   (1,121)            (1,114)           (1,134)           (1,166)           (1,247)
 capital employed (continuing and discontinued operations)                                                        33,063            34,313             33,348            33,665            31,706
 less: 	assets classified as held for disposal presented as ­discontinued operations                             (2,325)            (1,689)                (14)            (758)             (768)
 plus: 	liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal
         presented as discontinued operations                                                                      1,559             1,275                   20              232               258
 capital employed (continuing operations)                                                                         32,297            33,898             33,354            33,138            31,195




 (in millions of €)                                                                                            09/30/2013       06/30/2013          03/31/2013         12/31/2012       09/30/2012
 capital employed fiscal 2013
 total equity                                                                                                     28,625            27,909             26,620            30,551            31,424
 plus: long-term debt                                                                                             18,509            19,140             20,182            16,651            16,880
 plus: short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt                                                    1,944             3,656              2,752             3,709             3,826
 less: cash and cash equivalents                                                                                  (9,190)            (6,071)           (7,892)           (7,823)          (10,891)
 less: current available-for-sale financial assets                                                                   (601)             (506)              (533)             (517)             (524)
 plus: post-employment benefits                                                                                    9,265             9,325              9,890             9,856             9,801
 less: sfs debt                                                                                                  (15,600)           (15,004)          (14,879)          (14,490)          (14,558)
 less: fair value hedge accounting adjustment 1                                                                   (1,247)            (1,323)           (1,473)           (1,570)           (1,670)
 capital employed (continuing and discontinued operations)                                                        31,706            37,127             34,667            36,367            34,289
 less: 	assets classified as held for disposal presented as ­discontinued operations                                (768)           (4,783)           (4,616)           (4,589)           (4,693)
 plus: 	liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal
         presented as discontinued operations                                                                         258            1,948              1,948             2,045             2,010
 capital employed (continuing operations)                                                                         31,195            34,291             31,999            33,823            31,606


       1 debt is generally reported with a value representing            value mainly due to changes in interest rates. accord­           figure for the calculation presented above. for further
          approximately the amount to be repaid. however, for             ingly, we deduct these changes in market value in order          infor­mation on fair value hedges see    note 30 in
          debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value           to end up with an amount of debt that approximately                d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .
          hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market           will be repaid, which we believe is a more meaningful




                                                                                                                                     247    d.    consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                     337    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      191
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position          242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                        c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                                    242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                        c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                  of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

                                                                                                                                                                              year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                           2014              2013
       income from continuing operations before interest after tax
       net income                                                                                                                                                                 5,507             4,409
       less:          other interest expenses / income, net                                                                                                                        (606)             (455)
       plus:          sfs other interest expenses / income 1                                                                                                                        630               556
       plus:          net interest expenses from post-employment benefits                                                                                                           295               297
       less:          taxes on interest adjustments 2                                                                                                                                (87)            (111)
            income before interest after tax                                                                                                                                      5,739             4,695
       less:          income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                                                                                     (108)             (231)
            income from continuing operations before interest after tax                                                                                                           5,632             4,465
       return on capital employed (roce) (continuing and discontinued operations)
       (i) income before interest after tax                                                                                                                                       5,739             4,695
       (ii) average capital employed (continuing and discontinued operations) 3                                                                                                 33,219            34,831
            (i) / (ii) roce (continuing and discontinued operations)                                                                                                             17.3%             13.5%
       return on capital employed (roce) (continuing operations)
       (i) income from continuing operations before interest after tax                                                                                                            5,632             4,465
       (ii) average capital employed (continuing operations) 3                                                                                                                  32,777            32,583
            (i) / (ii) roce (continuing operations)                                                                                                                              17.2%             13.7%


               1 sfs other interest expenses / income is included in other     2 effective tax rate for the determination of taxes on      3    average capital employed for a fiscal year is determined
                  interest expenses / income, net. adding back sfs other           interest adjustments is calculated by dividing income           as a five-point average in capital employed of the
                  interest expenses / income in the numerator corresponds          tax expenses by income from continuing o   ­ perations          respective quarters starting with the capital employed
                  to the adjustment for sfs debt in the denominator.               before income taxes, both as reported in      d.1 con-          as of september 30 of the previous fiscal year.
                                                                                  solidated statements of income .




      c.2.6.3 definitions of other                                                                           order backlog represents an indicator for the future revenues
      financial measures                                                                                     of our company resulting from already recognized orders. o    ­ rder
      we also use other financial measures in addition to the mea-                                           backlog is calculated by adding the orders of the current fiscal
      sures described above, such as orders and order backlog for the                                        year to the balance of the order backlog as of the end of the
      assessment of our future revenue potential. we define and cal-                                         prior fiscal year and then subtracting the revenue recognized in
      culate orders and order backlog as follows:                                                            the current fiscal year. if the amount of an order already recog-
                                                                                                             nized in the current or the previous fiscal years is modified or
      under our policy for the recognition of orders, we generally                                           if an order from the current fiscal year is cancelled, we adjust
      recognize the total contract amount for an order when we enter                                         ­
                                                                                                             orders for the current quarter and also our order backlog
      into a contract that we consider legally effective and compul-                                         ­accordingly, but do not retroactively adjust previously pub-
      sory based on a number of different criteria. the contract                                              lished orders. however, if an order from a previous fiscal year is
      amount is the agreed price or fee for that portion of the ­contract                                     cancelled, orders of the current quarter and, accordingly, the
      for which the delivery of goods and / or the provision of services                                      current fiscal year are generally not adjusted; instead, the exist-
      has been irrevocably agreed. future revenue from long-term                                              ing order backlog is revised directly. aside from cancellations,
      service, maintenance and outsourcing contracts is recognized                                            the order backlog is also subject to currency translation and
      as orders in the amount of the total contract value only if there                                       portfolio effects.
      is adequate assurance that the contract will r­ emain in effect for
      its entire duration (e.g., due to high exit barriers for the cus-                                      there is no standard system for compiling and calculating or-
      tomer). orders are generally recognized immediately when the                                           ders and order backlog information that applies across compa-
      relevant contract is considered legally e  ­ ffective and compul-                                      nies. accordingly, our orders and order backlog may not be
      sory. the only exceptions are orders with short overall contract                                       comparable with orders and order backlog measures reported
      terms. in this case, a separate reporting of orders would provide                                      by other companies. we subject our orders and our order back-
      no significant additional information regarding our perfor-                                            log to internal documentation and review requirements. we
      mance. for orders of this type, the recognition of orders thus                                         may change our policies for recognizing orders and order back-
      occurs when the corresponding revenue is recognized.                                                   log in the future without previous notice.




      108    a.    to our shareholders                                    131    b.    corporate ­governance                                171    c.    combined ­management report
192
                                                                                                                                            172    c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                            187    c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                                            193    c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                                            205    c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                                            210    c.5   net assets position

       c.3  results of operations


c.3.1 orders and revenue by region
orders for fiscal 2014 totaled € 78.350 billion, and revenue came                                   on a global basis, orders from emerging markets, as these mar-
in at € 71.920 billion. both represented a 2 % decrease year-over-                                  kets are defined by the international monetary fund, remained
year, due in part to unfavorable currency translation effects.                                      level year-over-year, and accounted for € 27.471 billion, or 35 %,
the resulting book-to-bill ratio was 1.09 for siemens in fiscal                                     of total orders for fiscal 2014. comparable order growth in
2014. on a comparable basis, excluding currency translation                                         emerging markets was 6 % year-over-year.
and portfolio effects, orders and revenue both grew 1 % year-
over-year.                                                                                                  revenue (location of customer)

                                                                                                                                             year ended           % change                 therein
                                                                                                                                          september 30,
the order backlog (defined as the sum of order backlogs of the
                                                                                                                                                                      compa­       cur­      port­-
sectors) was € 100 billion as of september 30, 2014, up from                                          (in millions of €)              2014         2013    actual      rable 1   rency       folio
€ 94 billion a year earlier.                                                                          europe, c.i.s.,2
                                                                                                      africa, middle east         38,732        39,390      (2)%        (1)%     (1)%         0%
       orders (location of customer)                                                                   therein germany            10,857        10,652        2%          2%          0%      0%

                                        year ended              % change               therein        americas                    18,756        19,644      (5)%          0%     (5)%         0%
                                     september 30,                                                     therein u.s.               12,876        13,110      (2)%          1%     (3)%         1%
                                                                compa­          cur­     port­-       asia, australia             14,433        14,411        0%          4%     (4)%         0%
 (in millions of €)                2014         2013     actual  rable 1      rency      folio
                                                                                                       therein china               6,442         5,866       10%        12%      (2)%         0%
 europe, c.i.s.,   2

 africa, middle east           41,542       43,889        (5)%      (4)%      (1)%        0%          siemens                     71,920        73,445      (2)%          1%     (3)%         0%
  therein germany              10,986       11,616        (5)%      (5)%        0%        0%
 americas                      20,880       21,070        (1)%        4%      (5)%        1%                1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.

  therein u.s.                 14,842       13,592          9%      11%       (3)%        1%                2 commonwealth of independent states.

 asia, australia               15,929       14,796          8%      12%       (4)%        0%
  therein china                 6,641         6,053       10%       12%       (2)%        0%        revenue related to external customers declined 2 % com-
 siemens                       78,350       79,755        (2)%        1%      (3)%        0%         pared to fiscal 2013. clear revenue growth year-over-year in
                                                                                                    infra­structure & cities resulting from the continuing execution
       1    excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                                    of large rolling-stock projects, was more than offset by a clear
       2    commonwealth of independent states.
                                                                                                    decline in energy, which saw revenue fall in many of its
                                                                                                    ­businesses and in all three reporting regions. industry revenue
orders related to external customers in fiscal 2014 decreased                                        came in near the prior-year level and healthcare reported
2 %, largely due to a moderate decline in infrastructure & cities                                    a slight decline, both including unfavorable currency trans­
where prior-year orders included a € 3.0 billion contract for                                        lation effects.
trains and maintenance in the u.k. slight decreases in health-
care and energy were only partially offset by order growth in                                       while revenue in asia, australia came in near the prior-year
industry.                                                                                           level, it included double-digit revenue growth in china that
                                                                                                    ­resulted from a sharp increase in infrastructure & cities and a
in the region europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east, the decline                                       solid contribution from industry. in the americas, revenue was
in orders was due mainly to a double-digit decrease in infra­                                        lower year-over-year in all sectors, due in part to currency trans-
structure & cities caused by a lower volume from large orders                                        lation headwinds as mentioned above. a double-digit d     ­ ecrease
 ­compared to a year earlier. orders came in slightly lower in                                       in energy revenue in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east more
the americas, despite 9 % order growth in the u.s. key growth                                        than offset clear growth in infrastructure & cities. emerging
­drivers here included siemens’ largest-ever order for light rail                                    markets reported a 2 % decline compared to fiscal 2013 and
 vehicles in the u.s. and a rebound in the u.s. wind business                                        ­accounted for € 24.312 billion, or 34 %, of total revenue in fiscal
 after a sharp drop in the previous year. clear order growth in                                       2014. comparable revenue growth in emerging markets was 3 %
 asia, australia was due in part to a higher volume from large                                        year-over-year.
 orders in energy. in addition, china contributed to the regional
 development with a sharp increase in infrastructure & cities
 and double-digit order growth in industry.




                                                                                                                                    247    d.    consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                    337    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      193
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position            242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                          c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                                      242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                          c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                    of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

              orders and revenue by quarter (in millions of €)

       orders                                                                          revenue                                                                         book-to-bill ratio
       q4 2014         20,733                                                          q4 2014       20,621                                                            1.01
       q3 2014         19,284                                                          q3 2014       17,692                                                            1.09
       q2 2014         18,027                                                          q2 2014       16,865                                                            1.07
       q1 2014         20,306                                                          q1 2014       16,742                                                            1.21
       q4 2013         20,298                                                          q4 2013       20,559                                                            0.99
       q3 2013         19,928                                                          q3 2013       18,363                                                            1.09
       q2 2013         20,761                                                          q2 2013       17,226                                                            1.21
       q1 2013         18,767                                                          q1 2013       17,297                                                            1.09




      c.3.2 segment information analysis
      c.3.2.1 energy

              sector

                                                                                      year ended september 30,                                      % change                                 therein
       (in millions of €)                                                                 2014               2013               actual         comparable 1            currency             portfolio
       profit                                                                         1,569                 1,955           (20)%
       profit margin                                                                   6.4%                 7.3%
       orders                                                                       28,646              28,797                  (1)%                     4%               (3)%                 (1)%
       total revenue                                                                24,631              26,638                  (8)%                   (3)%               (3)%                 (1)%
        external revenue                                                            24,380              26,425                  (8)%
            therein:
          europe, c.i.s.,2 africa, middle east                                      12,766              14,382              (11)%
         therein germany                                                              2,507                 2,246                12%
         americas                                                                     7,013                 7,155               (2)%
          asia, australia                                                             4,601                 4,888               (6)%


              1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                2   commonwealth of independent states.




      energy sector profit of € 1.569 billion in fiscal 2014 was down                                     revenue for the sector came in 8 % lower than a year ago on
      significantly compared to a year earlier, due mainly to continu-                                    decreases in all three reporting regions, reflecting weak order
      ing profitability challenges including a revenue decline and a                                      development at power generation and selective order intake at
      less favorable business mix. both p ­ eriods included substantial                                   power transmission in the past. power generation and power
      burdens on profit. in the current ­period, the impacts included                                     transmission posted revenue declines compared to the prior
      € 538 million in charges at power transmission and € 272 mil-                                       year, while wind power clearly increased its revenue. orders
      lion in charges at wind power. burdens on sector profit a year                                      for the sector came in 1 % lower than in the prior year. on a
      ago included € 301 million in charges for the “siemens 2014”                                     ­regional basis, an increase in the asia, australia reporting
      program, a loss of € 255 million at siemens’ solar activities,                                    ­region was more than offset by a decline in the americas.
      € 171 million in charges at power transmission, among others,                                      ­negative currency translation effects took three percentage
      € 94 million in charges related to onshore wind turbine blades                                      points from both revenue and order development during the
      and € 46 million in charges related to compliance with sanc-                                        year. the book-to-bill ratio for energy was 1.16, and its order
      tions on iran at power generation. the power generation divi-                                       backlog was € 58 billion at the end of the fiscal year. out of the
      sion increased its profit year-over-year, benefiting from a gain                                    order backlog as of september 30, 2014, orders of € 19 billion
      on the sale of the division’s turbo fan business and a positive                                     are expected to be converted into revenue in fiscal 2015 and the
      effect from a successful project completion. power trans­                                           remainder in the ­periods thereafter.
      mission posted a sharply higher loss year-over-year, and wind
      power reported a loss compared to a profit in fiscal 2013.



      108    a.   to our shareholders                                    131   b.   corporate ­governance                                171   c.      combined ­management report
194
                                                                                                                                         172   c.1     business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                         187   c.2     financial performance system
                                                                                                                                         193   c.3     results of operations
                                                                                                                                         205   c.4     financial position
                                                                                                                                         210   c.5     net assets position

       orders by business

                                                                                year ended september 30,                                       % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                               2014                2013                actual         comparable 1              currency            portfolio
 power generation                                                             15,478              16,366                   (5)%                     0%                 (4)%               (2)%
 wind power                                                                     7,748               6,593                  18%                     19%                 (2)%                 0%
 power transmission                                                             5,586               5,700                  (2)%                     2%                 (4)%                 0%


       1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.



       revenue by business

                                                                                year ended september 30,                                       % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                               2014                2013                actual         comparable 1              currency            portfolio
 power generation                                                             13,909              15,242                   (9)%                    (4)%                (3)%               (2)%
 wind power                                                                     5,500               5,174                   6%                      9%                 (3)%                 0%
 power transmission                                                             5,310               6,167                 (14)%                   (10)%                (3)%                 0%


       1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.



       profit and profit margin by business

                                                                                                                                         profit                                   profit margin
                                                                                         year ended september 30,                                                    year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                   2014                    2013                 % change                        2014                    2013
 power generation                                                                   2,186                    2,126                         3%                    15.7%                  13.9%
 wind power                                                                            (15)                   306                         n/a                   (0.3)%                   5.9%
 power transmission                                                                  (636)                   (156)                 >(200)%                     (12.0)%                 (2.5)%




profit at power generation in fiscal 2014 increased moderately                                    c­ ontribution from the higher-margin offshore business. in addi-
year-over-year to € 2.186 billion, despite a 9 % revenue decline.                                  tion, the ­division’s production costs were higher compared to
the current ­period benefited from a € 73 million gain on the sale                                 the prior year. for comparison, fiscal 2013 profit was burdened
of the division’s turbo fan business and a positive € 72 million                                   by € 94 million in charges related to inspecting and retrofitting
effect from a successful project completion in the turnkey busi-                                   onshore turbine blades, but benefited from positive effects re-
ness. the division continues to face challenges in an increas-                                     lated to project completions and the settlement of a claim
ingly competitive market for large gas turbines. for comparison,                                   ­related to an offshore wind-farm project. revenue was up 6 % as
profit development a year earlier was held back by € 163 million                                    an increase in the onshore business, particularly in the ameri-
in “siemens 2014” charges and € 46 million in charges related to                                    cas, more than offset the above-mentioned decline in the off-
compliance with sanctions on iran. revenue for the division                                         shore business. order intake was up significantly year-over-
­decreased 9 % year-over-year on declines in all three reporting                                    year as order intake in the americas region grew sharply, driven
 regions, due in part to negative currency translation. order in-                                   mainly by a recovery in the u.s., the division’s largest national
 take was below the level of the prior year, including strong neg-                                  market for onshore wind power, from a low basis of comparison
 ative currency translation effects, as declines in the americas                                    in the prior year that resulted from uncertainty about continu-
 and europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east were only partially offset                                 ation of production tax incentives.
 by an increase in asia, australia. on an organic basis, order
 ­intake was on the same level as in the prior year.                                              power transmission reported a loss of € 636 million, substan-
                                                                                                  tially wider than the loss a year earlier mainly due to project
wind power reported a loss of €15 million in fiscal 2014, com-                                    execution challenges. in the current year, the division took
pared to a profit of €306 million in fiscal 2013. the division                                    charges totaling € 298 million related to two high voltage direct
­recorded charges of €272 million for inspecting and replacing                                    current (hvdc) transmission line projects in canada, resulting
 main bearings in onshore wind turbines and for repairing                                         from revised estimates for civil engineering and infrastructure
 offshore and onshore wind blades. the revenue mix was
 ­                                                                                                provided by suppliers as well as penalties for associated project
 clearly less favorable year-over-year, due to a significantly lower                              delays, among other factors. in addition, the division took




                                                                                                                                   247    d.      consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                   337    e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   195
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position          242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                        c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                                    242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                        c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                  of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      charges of € 240 million primarily related to grid connections to                                year, the division recorded € 129 million in charges for the
      offshore wind-farms resulting from transport, installation and                                   “siemens 2014” program. revenue was down 14 % on decreases
      commissioning costs, compared to charges of € 171 million in                                     in all reporting regions, due mainly to selective order intake in
      the prior year. the division reached several material milestones                                 prior ­periods primarily in the solutions business. order intake
      with respect to its north sea grid connection projects in fiscal                                 was down 2 % year-over-year on decreases in the americas
      2014. finally, profit development in fiscal 2014 was also held                                   and asia, ­australia, held back by negative currency translation
      back by a less favorable revenue mix due to a high proportion                                                    ­ rganic basis, orders grew 2 %. legacy projects
                                                                                                       ­effects. on an o
      of projects with low or negligible profit margins. in the prior                                   are expected to hold back results going forward.



      c.3.2.2 healthcare

              sector

                                                                                      year ended september 30,                                      % change                                 therein
       (in millions of €)                                                                 2014               2013               actual         comparable 1            currency             portfolio
       profit                                                                         2,027                 2,033                 0%
       profit margin                                                                  16.3%                 16.1%
       orders                                                                       12,819              13,004                  (1)%                     3%               (4)%                   0%
       total revenue                                                                12,429              12,649                  (2)%                     2%               (4)%                   0%
        external revenue                                                            12,401              12,626                  (2)%
            therein:
          europe, c.i.s.,2 africa, middle east                                        4,391                 4,392                 0%
         therein germany                                                                  880                903                (2)%
         americas                                                                     4,729                 4,815               (2)%
          asia, australia                                                             3,281                 3,419               (4)%


              1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                2   commonwealth of independent states.




      the healthcare sector delivered € 2.027 billion in profit in fiscal                              revenue and orders for healthcare in fiscal 2014 declined
      2014, close to the level of the prior year. results in the current                               slightly year-over-year. negative currency translation effects
      ­period include burdens on profit from currency effects due to                                   affected reported results for most of the sector’s businesses,
       the greater strength of the euro compared to fiscal 2013. these                                 and also reduced reported revenue and orders in asia, australia
       unfavorable effects were strongest at the sector’s imaging and                                  and the americas compared to fiscal 2013. on a comparable
       therapy systems businesses and at diagnostics, and they more                                    ­basis, both revenue and orders were up. the book-to-bill ratio
       than offset a € 66 million positive effect related to the sale of a                              was 1.03, and healthcare’s order backlog was € 4 billion at the
       particle therapy installation in marburg, germany. for compar-                                   end of fiscal 2014. out of the order backlog as of september 30,
       ison, sector profit in fiscal 2013 was burdened by € 80 million in                               2014, orders of € 3 billion are expected to be converted into rev-
       charges associated with the sector’s “agenda 2013” initiative.                                   enue in fiscal 2015 and the remainder in the ­periods thereafter.

      despite negative currency effects, profit at diagnostics rose                                    the diagnostics business reported revenue of € 3.834 billion in
      significantly to € 417 million. for comparison, profit of € 350 mil-                             fiscal 2014, a 3 % decrease from € 3.942 billion a year earlier.
      lion a year earlier was held back by € 35 million in charges for                                 a clear decline in the americas was due primarily to headwinds
      the sector’s “agenda 2013” initiative. purchase price allocation                                 from currency translation as mentioned above. on a compara-
      (ppa) effects related to past acquisitions at diagnostics were                                   ble basis, diagnostics revenue was up 1 % year-over-year.
      € 163 million in fiscal 2014. a year earlier, diagnostics recorded
      € 169 million in ppa effects.




      108    a.   to our shareholders                                    131   b.   corporate ­governance                                171   c.      combined ­management report
196
                                                                                                                                         172   c.1     business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                         187   c.2     financial performance system
                                                                                                                                         193   c.3     results of operations
                                                                                                                                         205   c.4     financial position
                                                                                                                                         210   c.5     net assets position

c.3.2.3 industry

        sector

                                                                                 year ended september 30,                                      % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                                  2014              2013                actual         comparable 1             currency            portfolio
 profit                                                                          2,252               1,563                  44%
 profit margin                                                                   13.2%                9.2%
 orders                                                                        17,103              16,688                    2%                     5%                 (3)%                 0%
 total revenue                                                                 17,064              16,896                    1%                     4%                 (3)%                 0%
  external revenue                                                             15,346              15,256                    1%
      therein:
    europe, c.i.s.,2 africa, middle east                                         8,906               8,839                   1%
   therein germany                                                               4,141               4,145                   0%
   americas                                                                      2,592               2,718                 (5)%
    asia, australia                                                              3,848               3,699                   4%


        1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                 2   commonwealth of independent states.




in fiscal 2014, profit at industry rose sharply to € 2.252 billion,                                on a geographic basis, order and revenue development was
supported by a more favorable revenue mix and improved pro-                                        supported largely by growth in asia, australia, driven by china,
ductivity compared to the prior year. for comparison, profit in                                    and by a slight increase in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east.
the prior-year ­period was burdened by € 375 million in “siemens                                   reported orders and revenue in the americas region were
2014” charges. through most of fiscal 2014, the market environ-                                    lower compared to the prior-year ­period, held back by negative
ment for the sector’s businesses was clearly more favorable                                        currency translation effects. the book-to-bill ratio was 1.00, and
than a year earlier. while reported orders and revenue for the                                     industry’s order backlog was € 7 billion at the end of fiscal 2014.
year were up 2 % and 1 %, respectively, both were held back by                                     out of the order backlog as of september 30, 2014, orders of
negative currency translation effects that took away three per-                                    € 5 billion are expected to be converted into revenue in fiscal
centage points from reported growth.                                                               2015 and the remainder in the ­periods thereafter.


        orders by business

                                                                                 year ended september 30,                                      % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                                  2014              2013                actual         comparable 1             currency            portfolio
 industry automation                                                             8,412               8,143                   3%                     5%                 (3)%                 1%
 drive technologies                                                              9,210               9,024                   2%                     5%                 (3)%                 0%


        1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.



        revenue by business

                                                                                 year ended september 30,                                      % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                                  2014              2013                actual         comparable 1             currency            portfolio
 industry automation                                                             8,353               8,194                   2%                     4%                 (3)%                 1%
 drive technologies                                                              9,211               9,208                   0%                     3%                 (2)%                 0%


        1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.




                                                                                                                                    247   d.      consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                    337   e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   197
213    c.6    overall assessment of the economic position          242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                         c.10 c
214    c.7    subsequent events                                    242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                         c.11 s
215    c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                  of ­german ­commercial code)
225    c.9   report on expected developments and
              ­associated material opportunities and risks

              profit and profit margin by business

                                                                                                                                               profit                                 profit margin
                                                                                                 year ended september 30,                                                 year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                    2014                    2013                % change                       2014                     2013
       industry automation                                                                 1,401                    1,038                      35%                    16.8%                   12.7%
       drive technologies                                                                    843                     527                       60%                     9.1%                    5.7%




      profit at industry automation increased substantially year-                                        ­ frica, middle east. reported revenue in the americas showed
                                                                                                         a
      over year to € 1.401 billion on an improved business mix and                                       a slight decline due to unfavorable currency translation effects.
      higher results in all businesses, up from € 1.038 billion in the
      prior-year ­period which included € 114 million in “siemens 2014”                                  profit at drive technologies in fiscal 2014 increased to
      charges. profit development further included higher revenue                                        € 843 million on contributions from most of its businesses.
      and lower acquisition-related effects. in particular, ppa effects                                  profit development included a higher share of revenue from
      related to the acquisition of ugs corp. in fiscal 2007 were                                        the division’s higher-margin motion control business and an
      € 93 million in the current ­period compared to € 147 million a                                    ­improved cost position. for comparison, profit of € 527 million a
      year earlier. in addition, the division recorded ppa effects of                                     year earlier was burdened by € 243 million in “siemens 2014”
      € 44 million related to lms international nv (lms), acquired in                                      charges. due to unfavorable currency translation effects,
      the second quarter of fiscal 2013. for comparison, ppa effects                                      ­reported revenue was level year-over-year while orders grew
      related to lms in the prior year were € 33 million, while de-                                        2 % on a higher volume of large internal orders from siemens’
      ferred revenue adjustments and inventory step-ups totaled                                            rail business.
      € 43 million.
                                                                                                         on a geographic basis, double-digit order growth in china drove
      order and revenue development for the division was driven                                          a moderate increase in asia, australia while orders in e   ­ urope,
      mainly by double-digit growth in asia, australia, led by china.                                    c.i.s., africa, middle east came in slightly above their prior-year
      in addition, order growth of 3 % year-over-year included a mod-                                    level. revenue was flat in these two reporting r­ egions. both
      erate increase in the americas. revenue came in 2 % above                                          ­orders and revenue came in lower in the americas, held back
      the prior year and included a slight increase in europe, c.i.s.,                                    by unfavorable currency translation effects.



      c.3.2.4 infrastructure & cities

              sector

                                                                                      year ended september 30,                                       % change                                 therein
       (in millions of €)                                                                 2014               2013               actual         comparable 1             currency             portfolio
       profit                                                                         1,487                  291            >200%
       profit margin                                                                   7.9%                 1.6%
       orders                                                                       21,001                21,894                (4)%                    (4)%               (2)%                   2%
       total revenue                                                                18,934                17,879                  6%                      6%               (3)%                   3%
        external revenue                                                            18,291                17,149                  7%
            therein:
          europe, c.i.s.,2 africa, middle east                                      11,560                10,494                 10%
         therein germany                                                              2,763                 2,635                 5%
         americas                                                                     4,075                 4,288               (5)%
          asia, australia                                                             2,656                 2,367                12%


              1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                2   commonwealth of independent states.




      108    a.   to our shareholders                                    131   b.   corporate ­governance                                171    c.      combined ­management report
198
                                                                                                                                         172    c.1     business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                         187    c.2     financial performance system
                                                                                                                                         193    c.3     results of operations
                                                                                                                                         205    c.4     financial position
                                                                                                                                         210    c.5     net assets position

in fiscal 2014, infrastructure & cities executed its projects                                     sector revenue in fiscal 2014 rose 6 % compared to the prior
­solidly, improved its productivity, and again won a number of                                    ­fiscal year, due to a double-digit increase at transportation &
 very large infrastructure orders. profit for the sector rose to                                   ­logistics. this business continued to execute large rolling stock
 € 1.487 billion and all its businesses contributed to the increase                                 projects won in prior p ­ eriods, and also recorded four quarters of
 year-over-year. for comparison, profit of € 291 million in the                                     revenue from the acquisition of invensys rail which closed
 prior year was impacted by € 468 million in “siemens 2014”                                         during the third quarter of the prior year. large orders in the
charges as well as project charges including charges of                                             current ­period included a contract worth € 1.6 billion for two
 € 270 million related to high-speed trains. transportation &                                       driverless subway lines in saudi arabia. a year earlier, large
 ­logistics, which posted a loss in the prior fiscal year due to the                                ­orders included among others a contract worth € 3.0 billion for
  project charges just mentioned and a majority share of the sec-                                    trains and maintenance in the u.k., and as a result fiscal 2014
  tor’s “siemens 2014” charges, delivered a profit of € 440 million                                  orders for the sector came in 4 % lower year-over-year. on a geo-
  in fiscal 2014 and made the strongest contribution to the                                          graphic basis, the sector reported double-­      digit revenue in-
  ­sector’s profit improvement year-over-year. power grid solu-                                      creases in asia, australia and europe, c.i.s, africa, middle east,
   tions & products and building technologies improved their prof-                                   only partly offset by a decline in the americas. for orders,
   its sharply year-over-year, to € 566 million and € 501 million, re-                               double-­  digit increases in the americas and asia, australia
   spectively. while both businesses posted lower revenue, they                                      were more than offset by a double-digit decline in europe,
   improved productivity and generated a more favorable revenue                                      c.i.s., ­africa, middle east. on a book-to-bill ratio of 1.11, infra-
   mix year-over-year.                                                                               structure & cities’ order backlog rose to € 31 billion at the end of
                                                                                                     fiscal 2014. out of the order backlog as of september 30, 2014,
                                                                                                     orders of € 10 billion are expected to be converted into revenue
                                                                                                     in fiscal 2015 and the remainder in the ­periods thereafter.

       orders by business

                                                                                year ended september 30,                                       % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                               2014                2013                actual         comparable 1              currency            portfolio
 transportation & logistics                                                     9,184             10,040                  (9)%                    (13)%                (1)%                 5%
 power grid solutions & products                                                6,481               6,392                   1%                      6%                 (5)%                 0%
 building technologies                                                          5,587               5,769                 (3)%                     (1)%                (2)%                 0%


       1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.



       revenue by business

                                                                                year ended september 30,                                       % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                               2014                2013                actual         comparable 1              currency            portfolio
 transportation & logistics                                                     7,615               6,318                  21%                     14%                 (2)%                 8%
 power grid solutions & products                                                6,005               6,102                 (2)%                      3%                 (4)%                 0%
 building technologies                                                          5,569               5,754                 (3)%                     (1)%                (2)%                 0%


       1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.



       profit and profit margin by business

                                                                                                                                         profit                                   profit margin
                                                                                         year ended september 30,                                                    year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                   2014                    2013                 % change                        2014                    2013
 transportation & logistics                                                           440                    (448)                        n/a                     5.8%                 (7.1)%
 power grid solutions & products                                                      566                     403                        41%                      9.4%                   6.6%
 building technologies                                                                501                     351                        43%                      9.0%                   6.1%




                                                                                                                                   247    d.      consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                   337    e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   199
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position          242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                        c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                                    242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                        c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                  of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      transportation & logistics contributed a profit of € 440 mil-                c.3.2.5 equity investments
      lion in the current fiscal year, compared to a loss of € 448 mil-            in fiscal 2014, equity investments generated € 328 million in
      lion a year earlier. profit development in the current fiscal was            profit, down from € 411 million a year earlier. profit at equity
      driven primarily by significantly higher revenue and solid proj-             ­investments in both fiscal years included equity investment
      ect execution. profit also benefited from a € 55 million net effect           ­income related to our stake in bsh. beginning with the second
      from the release of accruals related to the “siemens 2014” pro-                quarter of fiscal 2014, we started to report results related to our
      gram and a € 27 million positive effect stemming from a change                 stake in bsh in phase with results of siemens, rather than with
      in risk assessment for a rail project. for comparison, the loss in             the lag of one quarter. this one-time catch-up effect contrib-
      the prior fiscal year was due to substantial profit impacts, in-               uted € 59 million to profit at equity investments in fiscal 2014.
      cluding the above-mentioned € 270 million in project charges,                  late in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we announced an
      which stemmed from delays for receiving certification for new                  agreement to sell our stake in bsh to robert bosch gmbh.
      high-speed trains, and € 267 million in “siemens 2014” charges.                profit at equity investments in the prior year benefited from a
      prior-year profit was also burdened by € 76 million in trans­                  positive effect of € 301 million stemming from a partial reversal
      action and integration costs and ppa effects of € 23 million                   of a fiscal 2009 impairment of our stake in nsn, which was sold
      ­related to the acquisition of invensys rail, which closed during              at the end of fiscal 2013. this positive effect was only partly
       the third quarter of fiscal 2013. in fiscal 2014, full-year ppa ef-           offset by an equity investment loss related to our share in unify
       fects related to the acquisition of invensys rail were € 53 mil-              holdings b.v. (formerly named enterprise networks) of € 96 mil-
       lion and integration costs amounted to € 34 million. revenue at               lion. this loss was due largely to additions to our net invest-
       transportation & logistics rose substantially year-over-year, as              ment in unify, which required us to recognize previously un­
       the business has been executing a number of its large roll-                   recognized losses.
       ing-stock orders. orders declined 9 % compared to fiscal 2013,
       due primar­ily to lower volume from large orders. for example,              c.3.2.6 financial services (sfs)
       fiscal 2014 included the business’s share of the above-men-
       tioned € 1.6 billion order from saudi arabia, while the prior fis-
       cal year included the entire € 3.0 billion order from the u.k.                                                        year ended september 30,           % change
       mentioned above. both revenue and order development in                           (in millions of €)                        2014            2013
       ­fiscal 2014 benefited from the acquisition of invensys rail.                    income before income taxes                465              409             14%
                                                                                        total assets                           21,970          18,661              18%
      profit at power grid solutions & products rose to € 566 million
      from € 403 million in the prior fiscal year. profit grew on im-
      proved productivity as well as a more favorable revenue mix.
      for comparison, profit in fiscal 2013 was burdened by € 97 mil-              sfs delivered € 465 million in profit (defined as income before
      lion in “siemens 2014” charges. slightly lower revenue year-                 income taxes) in fiscal 2014. for comparison, profit of € 409 mil-
      over-year included declines in the americas and the asia,                    lion in the prior-year ­  period was burdened primarily by a
      ­australia regions. a slight increase in orders included the busi-           € 52 million impairment of an equity stake in a power plant
       ness’s share of the above-mentioned order from saudi arabia.                project in the u.s. sfs continued to successfully support
       revenue and order development in fiscal 2014 was strongly                   siemens business and grow in its focus areas leading to higher
       ­affected by negative currency translation effects. on an organic           interest income and associated expenses. total assets rose to
        basis, revenue was up 3 % and orders rose 6 % year-over-year.              € 21.970 billion at the end of fiscal 2014, compared to € 18.661 bil-
                                                                                   lion at the end of fiscal 2013, including positive currency trans-
      building technologies increased its profit to € 501 million                  lation effects and substantial early terminations of financings.
      compared to € 351 million in the prior fiscal year. profit growth
      year-over-year was supported by higher productivity and a                    c.3.2.7 reconciliation to consolidated
      more favorable business mix related to the division’s high-                  financial statements
      er-margin product and service businesses. for comparison,                    reconciliation to consolidated financial statements includes
      profit in fiscal 2013 was held back by € 100 million in “siemens             centrally managed portfolio activities, siemens real estate
      2014” charges. both revenue and orders declined 3 % year-­over-              (sre) and various categories of items which are not allocated to
      year. on a regional basis, lower volume was due mainly to the                the sectors and to sfs because the company ’s management
      americas.                                                                    has determined that such items are not indicative of the sec-
                                                                                   tors’ and sfs’ respective performance.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                         171    c.    combined ­management report
200
                                                                                                              172    c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                              187    c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                              193    c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                              205    c.4   financial position
                                                                                                              210    c.5   net assets position

centrally managed portfolio activities                                                      ­current ­­period included expenses resulting from changes in
centrally managed portfolio activities reported a profit of                                 the fair value of warrants issued together with us $ 3 billion in
€ 44 million in fiscal 2014, compared to a loss of € 113 million                             bonds in fiscal 2012, as well as negative effects related to legal
in fiscal 2013. results for the prior year included € 100 million in                         and regulatory matters. the fair value of the warrants depends
charges related to two large projects remaining from the metals                              on the underlying siemens and osram share prices as well as
­technologies business, formerly reported within ­industry, that                            their respective volatilities. because this effect is accounted
 were not classified as discontinued operations.                                            for in corporate items, results for corporate items are expected
                                                                                            to remain variable in coming ­periods. centrally carried pen-
siemens real estate (sre)                                                                   sion expense totaled € 393 million in fiscal 2014, compared to
income before income taxes at sre was € 241 million in fiscal                               € 416 million in fiscal 2013.
2014, compared to € 168 million in fiscal 2013. as in the past,
income from sre continues to be highly dependent on dis­                                    eliminations, corporate treasury
posals of real estate.                                                                      and other ­reconciling items
                                                                                            income before income taxes from eliminations, corporate
corporate items and pensions                                                                ­treasury and other reconciling items was a negative € 48 mil-
corporate items and pensions reported a loss of € 938 million in                             lion in fiscal 2014, compared to a negative € 70 million in
fiscal 2014, compared to a loss of € 836 million in fiscal 2013.                             the same p ­ eriod a year earlier. the change year-over-year in-
within these figures, the loss at corporate items was € 545 mil-                             cluded higher interest income from liquidity at corporate
lion, compared to a loss of € 419 million in fiscal 2013. the                                treasury.



c.3.3 income


                                                                                                                           year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                       2014                    2013                % change
  energy                                                                                                             1,569                      1,955                   (20)%
  healthcare                                                                                                         2,027                      2,033                      0%
  industry                                                                                                           2,252                      1,563                    44%
  infrastructure & cities                                                                                            1,487                        291                  >200%
 total sectors profit                                                                                                7,335                      5,842                    26%
 equity investments                                                                                                       328                     411                   (20)%
 financial services (sfs)                                                                                                 465                     409                    14%
 reconciliation to consolidated financial statements                                                                  (700)                      (850)                   17%
 income from continuing operations before income taxes                                                               7,427                      5,813                    28%
 income tax expenses                                                                                                 (2,028)                   (1,634)                  (24)%
 income from continuing operations                                                                                   5,400                      4,179                    29%
 income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                                                 108                     231                   (53)%
 net income                                                                                                          5,507                      4,409                    25%
  net income attributable to non-controlling interests                                                                    134                     126                       –
  net income attributable to shareholders of siemens ag                                                              5,373                      4,284                    25%




as a result of the developments described in                        c.3.2 segment           in fiscal 2014, the hospital information system business, for-
information analysis , income from continuing operations                                    merly included in the healthcare sector, and nearly all of the
before i­ncome taxes increased 28% year-over-year. with a                                   metals technology business, formerly included in the industry
lower effective tax rate compared to fiscal 2013 (27% in fiscal                             sector, were classified as discontinued operations. income
2014 vs. 28% in fiscal 2013), income from continuing opera-                                 from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in fiscal
tions increased 29% year-over-year.                                                         2014 was €108 million compared to €231 million a year earlier.




                                                                                                                    247    d.    consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                 201
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      while income from discontinued operations in the current                          corresponding basic eps rose 25% to €6.37 compared to €5.08
      ­period benefited from a positive €64 million tax effect related                  in the prior year, primarily reflecting higher net income attri­
       to former communications activities, the prior year included                     butable to shareholders of siemens ag.
       ­income from discontinued operations of €277 million related to
        osram, which was spun off in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.                 in fiscal 2014, roce from continuing operations was 17.2%,
                                                                                        thus clearly returning to our target range of 15 to 20%. in fiscal
      as a result of the changes in income from continuing opera-                       2013, roce from continuing operations was 13.7%. the increase
      tions and income from discontinued operations, net income                         was due primarily to the substantial increase in income from
      and net income attributable to shareholders were 25% higher                       continuing operations and a slightly lower average capital
      than a year earlier.                                                              ­employed. for more detail on the calculation of roce, see
                                                                                           c.2.6.2 return on capital employed (roce) .




      c.3.4 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda
      the following table gives additional information on topics
      ­included in profit and income before income taxes and pro-
       vides a reconciliation to adjusted ebitda based on continuing
       ­operations.

              for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2014 and 2013

                                                                                                                                        profit          income (loss) from
                                                                                                                                                    investments accounted
                                                                                                                                                              for using the
                                                                                                                                                        equity method, net
       (in millions of €)                                                                                            2014                2013          2014           2013
       sectors
            energy sector                                                                                           1,569             1,955             129            (39)
         therein: power generation                                                                                  2,186             2,126              32            32
       		               wind power                                                                                    (15)               306             52             (8)
       		               power transmission                                                                          (636)               (156)            29            20
            healthcare sector                                                                                       2,027             2,033                6             8
         therein: diagnostics                                                                                        417                 350               –             –
            industry sector                                                                                         2,252             1,563                2            (4)
         therein: industry automation                                                                               1,401             1,038                –             –
       		               drive technologies                                                                           843                 527               2            (5)
            infrastructure & cities sector                                                                          1,487                291             28            26
         therein: transportation & logistics                                                                         440                (448)            16            18
       		               power grid solutions & products                                                              566                 403             10              8
       		               building technologies                                                                        501                 351               2             –
       total sectors                                                                                                7,335             5,842             165            (10)
            equity investments                                                                                       328                 411            297           372
            financial services (sfs)                                                                                 465                 409             66            85
       reconciliation to consolidated financial statements
          centrally managed portfolio activities                                                                          44            (113)            55            69
          siemens real estate (sre)                                                                                  241                 168               –             –
          corporate items and pensions                                                                              (938)               (836)             (2)            –
          eliminations, corporate treasury and other reconciling items                                                (48)               (70)              1            (6)
       siemens                                                                                                      7,427             5,813             582           510




      beginning with fiscal 2015, we calculate ebitda without the
      elimination of income (loss) from investments accounted for
      using the equity method, net.



      108    a.   to our shareholders                     131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171    c.        combined ­management report
202
                                                                                                              172    c.1       business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                              187    c.2       financial performance system
                                                                                                              193    c.3       results of operations
                                                                                                              205    c.4       financial position
                                                                                                              210    c.5       net assets position

             financial income                     adjusted ebit              amortization and                depreciation and                   adjusted ebitda           adjusted ebitda margin
               (expenses), net                                             impairment of other                impairments of
                                                                              intangible assets            property, plant and
                                                                                                      equipment and goodwill
        2014              2013            2014               2013          2014            2013           2014              2013          2014                2013            2014         2013


            (41)          (27)          1,481           2,022               101            132            406               478          1,988              2,631            8.1%         9.9%
            (22)          (16)          2,177           2,110                57              68           204               222          2,438              2,399
            (12)            (6)            (55)              320             31              32           109               103                85             454
            (10)          (10)           (655)           (167)               14              13             89              114          (552)                 (39)
            23            (19)          1,999           2,045               245            266            308               311          2,551              2,622          20.5%         20.7%
            25            (27)            392                377            184            196            200               211           776                 784
             2            (16)          2,248           1,583               242            296            302               342          2,792              2,220          16.4%         13.1%
             4              (4)         1,396           1,041               196            240            119               123          1,711              1,404
             (2)          (11)            843                542             45              56           182               219          1,070                817
            (17)          (14)          1,476                279            127            154            170               226          1,772                658            9.4%         3.7%
            (12)            (7)           435            (459)               65              39             57               99           556                (321)
             (3)            (6)           560                401             22              57             70               78           652                 536
             (2)             –            501                352             40              58             40               46           581                 456
            (33)          (75)          7,203           5,928               715            848          1,185           1,356            9,103              8,131
            29              23               1                16               –              –               –               –                1                16
        552               389            (153)               (64)              5              5           190               225                41             166


             (2)            (2)             (9)          (180)                 1              2               3               2                (5)           (177)
       (103)             (109)            344                278               1              1           263               307           608                 586
       (360)             (246)           (576)           (590)               19              17             59               74          (498)               (498)
            35              30             (83)              (94)              –              –            (29)             (34)         (112)               (128)
        118                  9          6,728           5,293               741            873          1,670           1,931            9,139              8,097




                                                                                                                                   247    d.        consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                   337    e.        additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   203
213   c.6     overall assessment of the economic position           242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                          c.10 c
214   c.7     subsequent events                                     242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                          c.11 s
215   c.8     sustainability and citizenship                                   of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9    report on expected developments and
              ­associated material opportunities and risks

      c.3.5 selected information based                                                 if the new organizational structure as of beginning of fiscal
      on new organizational structure                                                  year 2015 had already been in place. as described in more detail
                                                                                       in      c.7 subsequent events , audiology solutions, formerly

      in may 2014, we announced a new organizational structure                         ­reported within healthcare, was classified as discontinued op-
      that became effective with the beginning of fiscal 2015. in gen-                  erations in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. this classification is
      eral, financial measures presented in this combined manage-                       already reflected in the numbers presented. profit amounts are
      ment report are based on our organizational structure during                      reported in accordance with our enhanced definition of seg-
      fiscal 2014. in this subchapter, we present selected financial                    ment profit, which is described in more detail in         c.2 finan-

      results for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 as they would have looked                 cial performance system .




                                                                                                                     orders                                      revenue
                                                                                                    year ended september 30,                  year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                           2014                  2013                2014                  2013
        power and gas                                                                            13,996              15,100               12,720                 14,016
        wind power and renewables                                                                 7,759               6,870                 5,567                 5,382
        energy management                                                                        11,210              11,405               10,708                 11,672
        building technologies                                                                     5,587               5,769                 5,569                 5,754
        mobility                                                                                  9,280               9,707                 7,249                 5,823
        digital factory                                                                           9,233               8,897                 9,201                 8,950
        process industries and drives                                                             9,968               9,695                 9,645                 9,834
        healthcare                                                                               12,126              12,338               11,736                 11,983
       industrial business                                                                       79,158              79,781               72,396                 73,414




                                                                                                                      profit                              profit margin
                                                                                                    year ended september 30,                  year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                           2014                  2013                2014                  2013
        power and gas                                                                             2,215               2,129                17.4%                  15.2%
        wind power and renewables                                                                     6                      7               0.1%                  0,1%
        energy management                                                                           (86)                  254              (0.8)%                  2.2%
        building technologies                                                                       511                   377                9.2%                  6.6%
        mobility                                                                                    532                   (232)              7.3%                 (4.0)%
        digital factory                                                                           1,681               1,320                18.3%                  14.8%
        process industries and drives                                                               773                   510                8.0%                  5.2%
        healthcare                                                                                2,072               2,123                17.7%                  17.7%
       industrial business                                                                        7,703               6,488                10.6%                   8.8%
       financial services                                                                           466                   410
       reconciliation to consolidated financial statements                                         (862)             (1,177)
       income from continuing operations before income taxes                                      7,306               5,722
       income tax expenses                                                                       (2,014)             (1,652)
       income from continuing operations                                                          5,292               4,070
       income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                     215                   340
       net income                                                                                 5,507               4,409




      108   a.   to our shareholders                     131   b.   corporate ­governance                      171   c.     combined ­management report
204
                                                                                                               172   c.1    business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                               187   c.2    financial performance system
                                                                                                               193   c.3    results of operations
                                                                                                               205   c.4    financial position
                                                                                                               210   c.5    net assets position

       c.4  financial position


c.4.1 principles and objectives                                                              and uses financial derivative instruments in transactions with
of financial management                                                                      external financial institutions to offset such concentrated expo-
                                                                                             sures. especially since the beginning of the global financial
siemens is committed to a strong financial profile, which pro-                               market crisis, siemens monitors very closely the counterparty
vides ­the financial flexibility to achieve growth and portfolio                             risk in its financial assets and financial derivative instruments.
optimization goals largely independent of capital market con-                                for more detailed information about financial risk manage-
ditions.                                                                                     ment at siemens, see        note 31 in    d.6 notes to consolidated

                                                                                            ­f inancial statements .

financial management at siemens is executed according
to ­applicable laws and internal guidelines and regulations. it                             management of post-employment benefits
­includes ­the following activities:                                                        siemens’ funding policy for post-employment-benefits is part
                                                                                            of its overall commitment to sound financial management,
liquidity management                                                                        which includes a continuous analysis of the structure of its pen-
siemens’ principal source of financing is cash inflows from                                 sion liabilities. for more detailed information about siemens’
operating activities. corporate treasury generally manages
­                                                                                           pension plan funding, see          note 22 in d.6 notes to con­

cash and cash equivalents for siemens and has primary respon-                               solidated ­f inancial statements .

sibility for raising funds in the capital markets for siemens
through various debt products, with the exception of countries                              capital structure management
with conflicting capital market controls. the relevant consoli-                             to effectively manage siemens’ capital structure, siemens
dated subsidiaries in these countries obtain financing primarily                            seeks to maintain ready access to the capital markets through
from local banks. siemens follows a prudent borrowing policy                                various debt products and to preserve its ability to repay and
that is aimed ­towards a balanced financing portfolio, a diversi-                           service its debt obligations over time.
fied maturity profile and a comfortable liquidity cushion. espe-
cially since the beginning of the global financial markets crisis,
siemens ­monitors very closely the funding options available in                             c.4.2 capital structure
the capital markets, trends in the availability of funds and the
cost of such funding in order to evaluate possible strategies                               as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 our capital structure was
regarding its financial and risk profile.                                                   as follows:

cash management
cash management comprises the management of bank partner                                                                                           september 30,         % change
relationships and bank accounts as well as the execution of                                   (in millions of €)                            2014             2013
payments, including the administration of cash pools, on a                                    total equity attributable to
                                                                                              shareholders of siemens ag                30,954           28,111             10%
global level. siemens strives to raise efficiency and transpar-
                                                                                              as percentage of total capital               60%               58%
ency through a high level of standardization and continuous
                                                                                              short-term debt and current
advancement of payment processes. where permissible, the
                                                                                               maturities of long-term debt               1,620            1,944
execution of intercompany and third party payments is effected                                long-term debt                           19,326           18,509
centrally through group-wide tools with central controls to en-                              total debt                                 20,947           20,453               2%
sure compliance with internal and external guidelines and                                    as percentage of total capital                40%               42%
­requirements. to ensure efficient management of siemens’                                    total capital
 funds, corporate treasury has established a central cash man-                               (total equity and total debt)              51,900           48,564               7%
 agement approach: to the extent legally and economically fea-
 sible, funds are pooled and managed centrally by corporate
 treasury. conversely, funding needs within siemens are cov-
 ered centrally by corporate treasury via intercompany current                              for information on changes in equity and debt, see                            c.5 net

 accounts and / or loans where legally and economically feasible.                           assets position .



financial risk management                                                                   we believe that sustainable revenue and profit development is
investments of cash and cash equivalents are subject to credit                              supported by a healthy capital structure. a key consideration of
requirements and counterparty limits. corporate treasury                                    our capital structure management is to maintain ready access
pools and centrally manages siemens’ interest rate exposure as                              to the capital markets through various debt products and to
well as certain commodity, currency and credit risk exposures                               preserve our ability to repay and service our debt obligations




                                                                                                                      247      d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                      337      e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                    205
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      over time. in fiscal 2014, the target range for our capital struc-           healthcare’s investments are mainly driven by the medical
      ture was 0.5 – 1.0. the ratio is defined as the item industrial net          ­imaging and therapy systems and laboratory diagnostics busi-
      debt divided by the item adjusted ebitda. this financial perfor-              nesses. large parts of the additions are related to intangible
      mance measure indicates the approximate amount of time in                     assets, such as licenses as well as developing and implement-
      years that would be needed to cover industrial net debt through               ing software and it solutions.
      continuing income, without taking into account interest, taxes,
      depreciation and amortization.                                               the businesses of the former industry sector spend a large por-
                                                                                   tion of its additions to intangible assets, particularly software,
      our capital structure ratio as of september 30, 2014 decreased               and property, plant and equipment for additional capacities for
      to 0.15 from 0.35 a year earlier. the change was due to a de-                innovative products, for optimization of its global footprint;
      crease in industrial net debt and an increase in adjusted ebitda             and for the replacement of fixed assets.
      compared to the prior year. we actively manage this ratio
      through our ongoing share buybacks. our announced acquisi-                   the businesses of the former infrastructure & cities sector
      tions and divestments of businesses will also have a noticeable              spend ­large amounts of their additions to intangible assets and
      impact on it in fiscal 2015.                                                 property, plant and equipment for investments in innovations
                                                                                   at the former power grid solutions & products business, partic-
       for further information on the calculation of adjusted ebitda               ularly including the business activities of the former low and
       and its changes, see      c.3.4 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda .         ­medium voltage division, and at the building technologies
       for further information with respect to our capital structure,               ­division. the businesses also invest significant amounts in the
       the calculation of industrial net debt and its changes, and our               ­replacement and expansion of technical equipment in order to
       credit rating, see      note 26 in     d.6 notes to consolidated               improve productivity and their respective positions in grow-
      ­f inancial statements .                                                        ing market segments, particularly at the former transporta-
                                                                                      tion & logistics business.

      c.4.3 investing activities                                                   the changes of additions to intangible assets and property,
                                                                                   plant and equipment from fiscal 2013 to 2014 were as follows:
      additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equip-
      ment from continuing operations was € 1.831 billion in fiscal                           additions to intangible assets and property,
                                                                                              plant and equipment (in millions of €)
      2014, nearly unchanged from the level in the same ­­period a
      year earlier. in fiscal 2014, we ­directed € 1.356 billion of these               siemens (continuing operations)
      additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equip-                     fy 2014           1,831
                                                                                                                                                                           1%
      ment within the sectors to investments for technological inno-                    fy 2013           1,808
      vations, extending our capacities for designing, manufacturing
                                                                                        energy sector
      and marketing new solutions and for the necessary replace-
                                                                                        fy 2014             449
      ments of fixed assets. the majority of the additions in fiscal                                                                                                       6%
                                                                                        fy 2013             425
      2014 took place in the focus areas of investing activities of the
      former sectors described below, which will basically continue                     healthcare sector
      to be the focus areas regarding the ­investing activities of the                  fy 2014             303
      industrial business in fiscal 2015. the remaining portion in fis-                                                                                                   26%
                                                                                        fy 2013             241
      cal 2014, € 475 million, related mainly to sre and its responsibil-
      ity for uniform and comprehensive management of company                           industry sector

      real estate worldwide.                                                            fy 2014             358
                                                                                                                                                                          (7)%
                                                                                        fy 2013             384
      the businesses of the former energy sector includes invest-
                                                                                        infrastructure & cities sector
      ments mainly in improving its global footprint to secure com-
                                                                                        fy 2014             247
      petitiveness by improving its cost position and strengthening                                                                                                        3%
                                                                                        fy 2013             239
      technological innovations. these investments include mainly
      spending in capacities and facilities related to the business of
      the former power generation division, such as new test facili-
      ties for highly efficient gas turbines, and for the technology-­             for information with respect to acquisitions of businesses, see
      driven wind power market, particularly in northern europe.                      c.1.1.2 business description .




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                                    171   c.    combined ­management report
206
                                                                                                                         172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                         187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                         193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                         205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                         210   c.5   net assets position

c.4.4 cash flows
        cash flows

                                                                                           continuing operations          discontinued operations                     continuing and
                                                                                                                                                             discontinued operations
                                                                                        year ended september 30,         year ended september 30,           year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                           2014            2013             2014               2013            2014          2013
 cash flows from:
 operating activities                                                                       7,230           7,186             (131)               154           7,100         7,340
 investing activities                                                                      (4,364)         (4,759)             339                (317)        (4,026)        (5,076)
      therein: additions to intangible assets and property,
                plant and equipment                                                        (1,831)         (1,808)                (67)            (204)        (1,898)        (2,012)
      free cash flow                                                                        5,399           5,378             (198)                (50)         5,201         5,328
 financing activities                                                                      (4,485)         (3,715)                 (2)            319          (4,487)        (3,396)




cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations                                 for comparison, the prior year included cash outflows from the
provided cash from operating activities of € 7.230 billion in fis-                           ­financing activities at sfs of € 2.175 billion and additions to in-
cal 2014, nearly unchanged from the level a year earlier. in both                             tangible assets and property, plant and equipment of € 1.808 bil-
­periods, the major component of cash inflows was income                                      lion. in the prior year, cash outflows for acquisitions of
 from continuing operations, which increased to € 5.400 billion                               businesses, net of cash acquired, totaled € 2.786 billion. this
 in fiscal 2014 from € 4.179 billion in the prior year. included                              total included the preliminary purchase price (excluding cash
 therein were amortization, depreciation and impairments of                                   acquired) of € 1.987 billion related to infrastructure & cities’ ac-
 € 2.411 billion in the current ­period and € 2.804 billion in the                            quisition of invensys rail, and € 670 million related to indus-
 prior year. a decrease in operating net working capital led to                               try’s acquisitions of lms international nv. also in the prior year
 cash inflows of € 0.1 billion in the current p   ­ eriod compared to                         cash inflows from the disposal of investments, intangibles and
 outflows of € 1.7 billion due to a build-up in operating net work-                           property, plant and equipment were € 2.462 billion. this total
 ing capital a year earlier. the positive change year-over-year in                            included proceeds of € 1.7 billion relating to the sale of our 50 %
 operating net working capital related mainly to energy, in par-                              stake in nsn and € 0.3 billion relating to the sale of our atos
 ticular to the wind power division, and to infrastructure &                                  convertible bonds.
 ­cities’ transportation & logistics business. in fiscal 2014 we
  ­recorded negative effects related to changes in other assets and                          discontinued operations provided cash of € 339 million in fiscal
   liabilities, particularly personnel-related liabilities, compared to                      2014, compared to cash used of € 317 million in the prior year.
   positive effects in the prior year. the current p   ­ eriod included                      the current p  ­ eriod included proceeds (excluding cash sold)
   cash outflows of approximately € 0.5 billion corresponding to                             of € 0.5 billion related to the sale of the water technologies
   charges to income taken for the “siemens 2014” program, com-                              business unit.
   pared to € 0.4 billion in such outflows in the prior year.
                                                                                             free cash flow from continuing and discontinued operations
discontinued operations used cash of € 131 million in fiscal                                 of € 5.201 billion in fiscal 2014 was near the high level of the
2014, compared to cash provided of € 154 million in the prior                                prior year. on a sequential basis, free cash flow during fiscal
year, which included significant cash inflows at osram.                                      2014 and fiscal 2013 developed as follows:

cash flows from investing activities – cash used in investing                                        free cash flow (in millions of €) 1

activities for continuing operations amounted to € 4.364 billion
                                                                                               q4 2014         3,450
in fiscal 2014, compared to cash used of € 4.759 billion in the
                                                                                               q3 2014         1,048
                           ­ eriod, cash outflows from investing
prior year. in the current p                                                                   q2 2014         1,402
activities were due mainly to two factors. firstly, sfs executed                               q1 2014          (699)
its planned asset growth during fiscal 2014 and we recorded                                    q4 2013         4,336
cash outflows totaling € 2.501 billion for a net increase in new                               q3 2013         1,053
business volume at sfs. secondly, we had additions to intan­                                   q2 2013         1,335
gible assets and property, plant and equipment of € 1.831 bil-                                 q1 2013        (1,395)
lion, which related mainly to investments within the sectors.
                                                                                                     1 continuing and discontinued operations.



                                                                                                                            247    d.    consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                            337    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                        207
213    c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                   c.10 c
214    c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                   c.11 s
215    c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225    c.9   report on expected developments and
              ­associated material opportunities and risks

      cash flows from financing activities – financing activities for              below we present the maturity profile of our assignable and
      continuing operations used cash of € 4.485 billion in fiscal 2014,           term loans and our bonds, issued mainly in euro and us$ and
      compared to cash used of € 3.715 billion a year earlier. in the              to a lower extent in £, as of september 30, 2014:
      current ­
      ­          period, the major cash outflows were dividends of
      € 2.533 billion paid (for fiscal 2013) to shareholders of                         bonds and loans maturity profile
                                                                                        (nominal amounts outstanding in billions of €)
      siemens ag and the repayment of € 1.452 billion in long-term
      debt. in addition we recorded cash outflows of € 1.066 billion for
                                                                                                     4.62
      the purchase of treasury shares under siemens’ share buyback
      program and paid interest totaling € 617 million. these cash
      ­outflows were partly offset by cash inflows of € 801 million from                      2.3                   2.5
       the change in short-term debt and other financing activities                                          2.0                                                      1.91
                                                                                                                                   1.6           1.42
                                                                                                                             1.3                        1.1
       ­related to the issuance of commercial paper and by proceeds of                        1.91
                                                                                                                                                                0.8
                                                                                        0.3                                               0.5
        € 527 million from the issuance of long-term debt, related to a
                                                                                               0.4
        total of us$ 700 million in privately placed floating-rate instru-              2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2025 2026 2028 2042 2066
        ments. for comparison, in the prior year we paid dividends of
        € 2.528 billion (for fiscal 2012) to shareholders of siemens ag                 1 the maturity of the hybrid bond depends on the exercise of a call option:
                                                                                           the bond is callable by us in september 2016 and thereafter, with a final legal
        and € 2.927 billion for the repayment of long-term debt. we re-                    maturity ending in september 2066.
        corded € 1.394 billion in cash outflows for the purchase of treas­              2 we may redeem, at any time, all or some of us$-notes, issued in august
                                                                                           2006, at the early redemption amount (call) according to the conditions of
        ury shares and € 479 million for the payment of interest. in the                   the notes.
        prior year these cash outflows were partly offset by cash inflows
        from the issuance of long-term debt totaling € 3.772 billion.
                                                                                   in order to optimize the company’s position with regard to in-
                                                                                   terest income and interest expense, and to manage the associ-
      c.4.5 capital resources                                                      ated interest rate risk, corporate treasury uses derivative finan-
      and requirements                                                             cial instruments to comprehensively and actively manage our
                                                                                   interest rate risk relative to a benchmark. the interest rate risk
      our capital resources consist of a variety of short- and long-               relating to sfs is managed separately, considering the term
      term instruments including debt instruments and credit facili-               structure of sfs’s financial assets and liabilities.
      ties. ­in addition to cash and cash equivalents and available-­for-
      sale financial assets, liquid resources consist of future cash               we have three credit facilities at our disposal for general corpo-
      flows from operating activities.                                             rate purposes. the credit facilities as of september 30, 2014
                                                                                   consisted of € 6.8 billion in committed, unused lines of credit.
      our capital requirements include, among others, scheduled
      debt service, regular capital spending, ongoing cash require-                further information about our debt and credit facilities, interest
      ments from operating and sfs financing activities, dividend                  rate risk management and the use of financial instruments
      payments, pension plan funding, portfolio activities and share               for hedging purposes is provided in       notes 21, 30 and 31 in

      buybacks.                                                                       d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .



      debt and credit facilities
      as of september 30, 2014 we recorded in total € 18.2 billion in
      bonds, € 1.7 billion in loans from banks, € 0.9 billion in other
      ­financial indebtedness, primarily consisted of us$-commercial
       paper, and € 0.1 billion in obligations under finance leases.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                           171    c.     combined ­management report
208
                                                                                                                172    c.1    business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                187    c.2    financial performance system
                                                                                                                193    c.3    results of operations
                                                                                                                205    c.4    financial position
                                                                                                                210    c.5    net assets position

net debt
net debt results from total debt less total liquidity. total liquid-                                                                                                                  september 30,
ity refers to the liquid financial assets we have available at the                                     (in millions of €)                                                        2014             2013
end of a reporting ­period to fund our business operations and                                         short-term debt and current maturities
                                                                                                       of long-term debt                                                       1,620           1,944
pay for near-term obligations. total liquidity comprises cash
                                                                                                       long-term debt                                                        19,326          18,509
and cash equivalents as well as current available-for-sale finan-
                                                                                                       total debt                                                            20,947          20,453
cial assets, as stated in the consolidated statements of finan-
                                                                                                       cash and cash equivalents                                              (8,013)         (9,190)
cial position. management uses the net debt measure for inter-
                                                                                                       available-for-sale financial assets (current)                             (925)           (601)
nal finance management, as well as for external communication
                                                                                                       total liquidity                                                        (8,938)         (9,790)
with investors, analysts and rating agencies.
                                                                                                         net debt 1                                                          12,008          10,663


                                                                                                              1 we typically need a considerable portion of our cash and cash equivalents and
                                                                                                                 our current available-for-sale financial assets for purposes other than debt reduc­
                                                                                                                 tion. ­the deduction of these items from total debt in the calculation of net debt
                                                                                                                 therefore should not be understood to mean that these items are available exclu­
                                                                                                                 sively for debt reduction at any given time.

the changes in net debt from fiscal 2013 to 2014 may also be
presented as follows:

       changes in net debt (in millions of €)

              10,663                             (83)                          (7,147)                         4,364                          4,211                           12,008




        net debt as of                  cash inflows for the           income and other changes         cash flows from                  changes in certain               net debt as of
        september 30, 2013              decrease in operating          in cash flows from               investing activities 2           financing activities 3           september 30, 2014
                                        net working capital 1          operating activities

                                        total cash flows from operating activities 2


       1 in fiscal 2014, cash inflows for the decrease in operating        payables of €205 million and cash outflows for billings     3 included cash flows relating to certain financing activities
          net working capital included cash inflows for inventories         in excess of costs and in estimated earnings on uncom­         such as dividends paid and purchase of treasury shares
          less advance payments received of €336 million, for               pleted contracts and related advances of €657 million.         as well as effects without cash flow impact such as from
          trade and other receivables of €200 million, for trade                                                                           currency translations.
                                                                         2 continuing operations.




off-balance-sheet commitments                                                                         ­ sset-based lending transactions, meaning that the respective
                                                                                                      a
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 we recorded € 6.687 billion                                         loans can be drawn only after the borrower has provided suffi-
and € 5.970 billion, respectively, of the undiscounted amount of                                      cient collateral. the increase in these commitments year-over-
maximum potential future payments related to guarantees. the                                          year was due mainly to new business volume at sfs, including
increase in these commitments included guarantees related to                                          positive currency translation effects.
the disposition of businesses and agreements related to our
project businesses. as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 we                                              other capital resources and requirements
­recorded also € 3.217 billion and € 3.120 billion, respectively, of                                  for information related to the expected payments for dividend
 future payment obligations under non-cancellable operating                                           and share buybacks, see      c.2.5 dividend and share buybacks .

 leases and € 132 million and € 223 million, respectively, for com-
 mitments to make capital contributions to the equity of various                                      for information related to expected cash inflows and outflows
 companies.                                                                                           in connection with portfolio transactions, see      note 4 in

                                                                                                         d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .

further information about these off-balance-sheet commit-
ments is provided in   note 27 in d.6 notes to consolidated                                           with our ability to generate positive operating cash flows,
financial statements .                                                                                our total liquidity of € 8.9 billion and our € 6.8 billion in unused
                                                                                                      lines of credit and given our credit ratings at year-end, we
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 we recorded also irrevoca-                                          ­believe that we have sufficient flexibility to fund our capital
ble loan commitments of € 3.604 billion and € 2.950 billion.                                           ­requirements. also in our opinion, our working capital is
                ­ ortion of these commitments resulted from
a ­considerable p                                                                                       ­sufficient for our present requirements.


                                                                                                                                      247    d.     consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                      337    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                          209
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position           242          ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                          c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                                     242          iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                          c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                    of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

               c.5  net assets position


              structure of consolidated statements
              of financial position (in millions of €)
                                                                                                                                                                                 september 30,
                                                                                                            (in millions of €)                                               2014         2013
                                                                          total liabilities
                             total assets                                   and equity                      cash and cash equivalents                                     8,013          9,190
                                   3%                                              3%                       available-for-sale financial assets                              925          601
                                                                                                            trade and other receivables                                  14,526         14,853
                      104,879                                          104,879                              other current financial assets                                3,710          3,250
                                        101,936                                         101,936
      total current
                                                                                                            inventories                                                  15,100         15,560
                                                       total current
      assets                                           liabilities                            37,868        current income tax assets                                        577          794
      48,076                                  46,937                                          (37%)
                                                       36,598
      (46%)                                   (46%)                                                         other current assets                                          1,290          1,297
                                                       (35%)
      therein:                                                                                              assets classified as held for disposal                        3,935          1,393
      total liquidity                         9,790    total
      8,938                                   (10%)    non-current                                           total current assets                                        48,076         46,937
      (9%)                                             liabilities                            35,443
                                                       36,767                                 (35%)
      total                                            (35%)
      non-current                             54,999
      assets                                  (54%)    total equity
      56,803                                           31,514                                 28,625
      (54%)                                            (30%)                                  (28%)
                                                                                                       cash and cash equivalents decreased by € 1.177 billion from the
                        sep. 30,        sep. 30,                       sep. 30,         sep. 30,       prior-year level. for detailed information regarding the change,
                         2014            2013                           2014             2013
                                                                                                       see     c.4.4 cash flows .



                                                                                                       the line items trade and other receivables and inventories
      our total assets in fiscal 2014 were influenced by positive cur-                                 ­decreased by € 328 million and € 461 million, respectively, year-
      rency translation effects of € 2.8 billion, led by the us$. within                                over-year. the main factor in the decreases was assets related
      total assets of € 104.879 billion, total assets related to sfs                                    to the metals technologies business, which were classified as
      ­increased to € 21.970 billion as of september 30, 2014 from                                      held for disposal. these decreases were partly offset by positive
      € 18.661 billion a year earlier. within total liabilities, sfs debt                               currency translation effects.
       increased to € 18.663 billion from € 15.600 billion a year earlier.
       both changes were driven by planned asset growth at sfs                                         the line item other current financial assets increased by
       during fiscal 2014. sfs assets represented 21 % of siemens’ total                               € 461 million year-over-year, which included higher loans receiv-
       assets as of september 30, 2014, compared to 18 % a year earlier.                               ables of sfs.
       sfs debt represented 18 % of siemens total liabilities and equity,
       compared to 15 % at the end of fiscal 2013.                                                     assets classified as held for disposal increased by € 2.542 billion
                                                                                                       due mainly to the classification of assets related to the metals
      during fiscal 2014 we classified a number of businesses as held                                  technologies business, our stake in bsh and the hospital infor-
      for disposal. these classifications affected a number of line                                    mation system business. this increase was partly offset by a
      items in our consolidated statements of financial position,                                      reduction in assets due to the sale of the water technologies
      which are noted in the discussion below. the relevant busi-                                      business.
      nesses include the following: the metals technologies busi-
      ness formerly within industry, the hospital information system
      business and microbiology business formerly within health-                                                                                                                 september 30,
      care, and our equity investment stake in bsh.                                                         (in millions of €)                                               2014         2013
                                                                                                            goodwill                                                     17,783         17,883
                                                                                                            other intangible assets                                       4,560          5,057
                                                                                                            property, plant and equipment                                 9,638          9,815
                                                                                                            investments accounted for using
                                                                                                            the equity method                                             2,127          3,022
                                                                                                            other financial assets                                       18,416         15,117
                                                                                                            deferred tax assets                                           3,334          3,234
                                                                                                            other assets                                                     945          872
                                                                                                             total non-current assets                                    56,803         54,999




      108   a.      to our shareholders                                 131   b.    corporate ­governance                             171    c.    combined ­management report
210
                                                                                                                                      172    c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                      187    c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                                      193    c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                                      205    c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                                      210    c.5   net assets position

goodwill decreased slightly to € 17.783 billion as of septem-                                short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt de-
ber 30, 2014 compared to € 17.883 billion a year earlier. the                                creased by € 324 million year-over-year. the main factors in the
­decrease was mainly related to goodwill in the metals techno­                               decrease were the redemption of € 1.0 billion in 5.375 % p.a.
 logies, hospital information system and microbiology busi-                                  instruments and € 400 million in 0.375 % p.a. instruments,
                                                                                             ­
 nesses, which were classified as assets classified as held for                              partly offset by the issuance of commercial paper.
 disposal. this decrease was nearly offset by positive currency
 translation effects.                                                                        other current liabilities decreased to € 17.954 billion as of sep-
                                                                                             tember 30, 2014 from € 19.701 billion a year earlier. the main
other intangible assets decreased to € 4.560 billion as of sep-                              factors were a decrease in billings in excess of costs and esti-
tember 30, 2014, compared to € 5.057 billion a year earlier. the                             mated earnings on uncompleted contracts and related ad-
­major factor in the decrease was amortization.                                              vances, mainly in energy and industry, and, to a lesser extent,
                                                                                             lower personnel-related liabilities. the decrease in industry re-
investments accounted for using the equity method decreased                                  lated primarily to the metals technologies business, where lia-
by € 894 million year-over-year. the main factor was the classi-                             bilities were classified as liabilities associated with assets clas-
fication of our stake in bsh as assets classified as held for dis-                           sified as held for disposal.
posal, partly offset by an investment in the joint venture re-
lated to the turbocare business unit within energy.                                          liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal
                                                                                             increased to € 1.597 billion as of september 30, 2014 from
the line item other financial assets increased to € 18.416 billion                           € 473 million a year earlier. the main factor in the increase was
as of september 30, 2014 compared to € 15.117 billion a year ear-                            the above-mentioned classification of liabilities associated
lier. the change was due primarily to higher loans receivable                                within metals technologies business.
driven by planned asset growth at sfs in fiscal 2014 and also to
a minor extent positive currency effects.
                                                                                                                                                                       september 30,
                                                                                               (in millions of €)                                                 2014         2013

                                                                       september 30,           long-term debt                                                 19,326        18,509
 (in millions of €)                                                2014          2013          post-employment benefits                                         9,324        9,265
 short-term debt and current                                                                  deferred tax liabilities                                            552          504
 maturities of long-term debt                                     1,620        1,944          provisions                                                        4,071        3,907
 trade payables                                                   7,594        7,599          other financial liabilities                                       1,620        1,184
 other current financial liabilities                              1,717        1,515          other liabilities                                                 1,874        2,074
 current provisions                                               4,354        4,485            total non-current liabilities                                 36,767        35,443
 current income tax liabilities                                   1,762        2,151
 other current liabilities                                    17,954          19,701
 liabilities associated with assets
 classified as held for disposal                                  1,597          473
  total current liabilities                                   36,598          37,868         long-term debt increased by € 817 million as of september 30,
                                                                                             2014, compared to the prior year, due mainly to positive cur-
                                                                                             rency translation effects and the issuance of us$ 700 million in
                                                                                             privately placed floating-rate instruments.




                                                                                                                            247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                       211
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242          ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                   c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242          iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                   c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                             of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      as of september 30, 2014, the funded status of our defined ben-              total equity attributable to shareholders of siemens ag in-
      efit plans showed an underfunding of € 9.1 billion, unchanged                creased from € 28.111 billion at the end of fiscal 2013 to
      from the prior year. within these figures, underfunding for                  € 30.954 billion at the end of fiscal 2014. in fiscal 2014, the main
      pension plans amounted to € 8.5 billion, as of september 30,                 factors relating to the increase in total equity attributable to
      2014 and 2013, respectively. an increase in our defined benefit              shareholders of siemens ag were € 5.373 billion in net income
      obligation (dbo) by € 2.418 billion mainly resulted from the im-             attributable to shareholders of siemens ag and € 825 million in
      pact of decreasing market interest rates which was offset partly             other comprehensive income, net of income taxes. these in-
      by the effect of a refined determination of the discount rate. at            creases were partly offset by dividend payments of € 2.533 bil-
      the same time, plan assets increased by € 2.427 billion due                  lion (paid for fiscal 2013) and the repurchase of 11,331,922
      mainly to a positive return, primarily driven by fixed-income                ­treas­ury shares at average costs per share of € 95.27 totaling
      and equity investments.                                                       € 1.080 billion (including incidental transaction charges).

                                                                                   for additional information on our net assets position, see the
                                                              september 30,        corresponding notes in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial
       (in millions of €)                                2014           2013       statements .
       total equity attributable
       to shareholders of siemens ag                 30,954         28,111
       equity ratio                                      30%            28%
       non-controlling interests                         560            514
       total liabilities and equity                 104,879        101,936




      108   a.   to our shareholders               131   b.     corporate ­governance                     171   c.    combined ­management report
212
                                                                                                          172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                          187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                          193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                          205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                          210   c.5   net assets position

       c.6  overall assessment of the economic position


we reached most of the goals for fiscal 2014 that we set in our                             i­ ndicators of our economic performance rose 25% year-over-year
annual report for fiscal 2013, particularly including 1 % organic                            to € 5.507 billion and €6.37, respectively, which clearly fulfilled
revenue growth and net income and basic eps (net ­income)                                    our forecast for an increase of basic eps from net income of at
growth of well over 15 % compared to the prior year. we also                                 least 15 %.
achieved a return on capital employed (roce) in our target
range. among the primary measures of our economic position,                                 total sectors profit margin in fiscal 2014 was 10.0%, in the mid-
only our capital structure ratio was outside the target range, as                           dle of our forecast of 9.5 % to 10.5 % given in our annual report
we kept our capital structure conservative in fiscal 2014.                                  for fiscal 2013. infrastructure & cities and industry were key
                                                                                            drivers in meeting this expectation, as both sectors showed im-
during the fiscal year, we finished the remaining measures                                  pressive performance improvements in fiscal 2014. healthcare
from the “siemens 2014” program, which helped to increase our                               maintained its profit and profit margin near the high level
cost productivity. furthermore, we initiated “vision 2020,” a                               achieved in the prior fiscal year. in contrast, the performance of
long-term and comprehensive concept for sustainable value                                   the energy sector was disappointing. profit fell significantly and,
creation. with this concept we aim to achieve profitable growth                             contrary to our expectation, profit margin also declined year-
through greater customer proximity and accelerated innova-                                  over-year due mainly to sharply higher project-related charges.
tion, while further optimizing our portfolio, streamlining our
management structures and processes, and fostering an “owner­                               the sectors’ results regarding adjusted ebitda margin followed
ship culture” throughout the company.                                                       the same pattern. infrastructure & cities and industry increased
                                                                                            their ebitda margins significantly year-over-year, with the for-
revenue for fiscal 2014 was € 71.920 billion, a 2 % decline com-                            mer re-entering its target range and the latter approaching the
pared to the prior fiscal year. within the change, infrastruc-                              top of its target range. healthcare again achieved an ebitda
ture & cities and industry reported higher revenue while energy                             margin above its target corridor. energy fell even further below
and healthcare reported declines. overall, the decline was due                              its ebitda margin range than it was in fiscal 2013.
to negative currency translation effects. on an organic basis,
excluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue                               roce is a primary measure of our capital efficiency. as we fore-
was up 1 % year-over-year, with three sectors contributing to                               cast in our annual report for fiscal 2013, roce for continuing
the increase and only energy reporting a decline year-over-year.                            operations for fiscal 2014 returned to the target range of 15 % to
this fulfilled our expectation that organic revenue would                                   20 %. we increased our income compared to a year earlier and
­remain near the prior-year level in fiscal 2014.                                           decreased our average capital employed slightly year-over-year.
                                                                                            as a result, roce for continuing operations rose to 17.2 % from
orders for fiscal 2014 were € 78.350 billion, fulfilling our expec-                         13.7 % in fiscal 2013.
tation for a book-to-bill ratio above 1, which came in at 1.09.
order development followed the pattern for revenue: while                                   free cash flow from continuing and discontinued operations
­reported orders were 2 % lower year-over-year, organic orders                              for fiscal 2014 came in at € 5.201 billion, 2 % lower than the high
 were up 1 % on increases in three of the four sectors. energy                              level we achieved a year earlier. while cash inflows from oper-
 and infrastructure & cities again won large order volumes from                             ating activities declined moderately year-over-year, we partly
 major contract wins, demonstrating the trust that customers                                offset this change by reducing cash outflows for investments in
 place in our ability to execute large projects despite setbacks in                         intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
 certain project businesses in recent years. while energy’s wind
 power division achieved a strong order increase year-over-year,                             our primary measure for evaluating our capital structure is
 the volume from large orders at infrastructure & cities ­came in                            ­defined as the ratio of industrial net debt to adjusted ebitda.
 lower than a year earlier, when the sector won an extraordi-                                 our target for this ratio in fiscal 2014 was 0.5 to 1.0. as the net
 narily large contract worth € 3.0 billion in the u.k.                                        ­result of the portfolio measures that we initiated in fiscal 2014
                                                                                               is e­ xpected to result in a significant net cash outflow in fiscal
total sectors profit for fiscal 2014 was € 7.335 billion. as ex-                               2015, we kept our capital structure in fiscal 2014 more conser-
pected, this was a substantial increase from € 5.842 billion a                                 vative. as a result of a combination of sharply lower industrial
year earlier, when the sectors took € 1.2 billion in charges for                               net debt and clearly higher ebitda from continuing operations
the “siemens 2014” productivity improvement program.                                           year-over-year the ratio declined to 0.15, down from 0.35 a
                                                                                               year earlier. thus we did not fulfill our forecast for the capital
higher total sectors profit was the main driver for growth in                                  ­structure ratio, which was to approach the lower end of the
net income and basic eps from net income. these primary                                     ­target range.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                     213
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      our “vision 2020” concept mentioned above, which was initi-                 attractive geographic markets and get closer to our customers.
      ated in fiscal 2014, focuses siemens on profitable growth                   with regard to innovation, we expect to intensify r & d activi-
      along the value chain of electrification. during the year we                ties e.g. to shorten product development cycles and increase
      ­announced a number of portfolio changes for this purpose,                  our application of new technologies, such as data analytics. to
       including acquisition of two major energy businesses: the
       ­                                                                          ­better balance risks and rewards when we take on innovative
       ­rolls-royce aero-derivative gas turbine and compressor busi-               projects, we intend to explicitly rely on our so-called corporate
        ness and the dresser-rand oil and gas equipment business. we               memory as an early-warning system that takes ­advantage of
        have also announced planned divestments of our hearing aid                 the experience and expertise we already possess.
        business and our stake in the home appliance business bsh. to
        streamline our processes, we reduced layers of management by              we intend to continue providing an attractive return to share-
        eliminating the sector structure and reducing the number of               holders. as in the past, we intend to fund the dividend payout
        our divisions, effective with the beginning of fiscal 2015. we            from free cash flow. the siemens managing board, in agree-
        also streamlined our regional go-to-market structure, with a              ment with the supervisory board, proposes a dividend of € 3.30
        smaller number of entities that have greater ability to penetrate         per share, up from € 3.00 a year earlier.




             c.7  subsequent events

      in november 2014, we announced the sale of our hearing aid
      business to the investment company eqt and the german
      entre­preneurial family strüngmann as co-investors. the trans-
      action volume is € 2.15 billion plus an earn-out component and
      includes that the new owners will also be allowed to continue
      using the siemens product brand for the hearing aid business
      over the medium term. the hearing aid business so far rep-
      resents a business unit within healthcare. the transaction is
      subject to approval by the regulatory authorities. closing is
      ­expected in the first quarter of ­calendar year 2015. the hearing
       aid business is presented as held for disposal and discontinued
       operations since the first quarter of fiscal 2015.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
214
                                                                                                        172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                        187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                        193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                        205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                        210   c.5   net assets position

       c.8  sustainability and citizenship


c.8.1 sustainability at siemens                                                             the siemens sustainability board, which is chaired by the
                                                                                            chief sustainability officer, is the central steering committee
c.8.1.1 overview                                                                            for sustainability at siemens. in its regular meetings it directs
siemens has defined sustainability to mean achieving profit-                                our sustainability activities as part of our sustainable strategy
able and long-term growth, acting responsibly on behalf of                                  and adopts appropriate measures and initiatives. our chief sus-
future generations and to keep the three dimensions of sus-                                 tainability officer also manages the sustainability office,
tainability – people, planet, profit – in balance. we are aware of                          which is responsible for driving sustainability further within
the associated high standards and the possibility of conflicting                            siemens and for coordinating the sustainability activities and
goals. nevertheless, we are convinced that sustainability,                                  other company-wide programs and measures.
­especially in the sense of resource efficiency is a business
 ­opportunity, and worth seizing.                                                           to help us maintain an objective perspective on our sustain-
                                                                                            ability challenges and performance, we have also created the
sustainability is a guiding principle within our company, incor-                            siemens sustainability advisory board, composed of eight
porated in our philosophy, central theme of our corporate strat-                            eminent figures in science and industry from a range of disci-
egy, and integral part of the siemens management model. in                                  plines and regions of the world. none are employees of
our sustainability activities we focus on three areas: “sustain-                            siemens. furthermore, a network of assigned sustainability
able business practices,” “contribution to our customers’ com-                              managers in the businesses and regional units ensure that sus-
petiveness,” and “contribution to sustainable development of                                tainability measures are implemented and multiplied through-
societies” in order to achieve sustainable progress for siemens,                            out the company.
its customers and societies.
                                                                                            c.8.1.3 collaborating for sustainability
>> “sustainable business practices” comprises our commitment                                our sustainability efforts are based on our business conduct
   to embedding sustainability throughout our organization                                  guidelines, which provide the ethical and legal framework
   and operations. we want to be a role model ourselves and                                 within which we conduct our business activities. they contain
   walk the talk across all areas of the company covering oper-                             the basic principles and rules for our conduct internally and
   ational businesses, countries, and corporate functions.                                  externally. specific issues, such as those relating to the environ­
>> the second area means that we contribute to our customers’                               ment, are covered in more detailed regulations and guidelines.
   competitiveness with our products, solutions and services                                the business conduct guidelines are binding for all companies
   and enable them to increase energy efficiency, save re-                                  controlled by siemens.
   sources and reduce carbon emissions at a significant cost
   advantage.                                                                               furthermore, we believe that close collaboration with stake-
>> siemens contributes to the sustainable development of soci-                              holders supports us in addressing complex, interlocking sus-
   eties with its innovative products and solutions, local opera-                           tainability challenges and topics. maintaining an intensive dia-
   tions, thought leadership and the fostering of long-term                                 logue with partners along the supply chain and with external
   relationships with local communities through corporate
   ­                                                                                        stakeholder groups and organizations is important for us:
   ­citizenship projects with partners.                                                     siemens is actively engaged with leading global sustainability
                                                                                            organizations, such as the world business council for sustain-
                                                                                            able development (wbcsd) and the world resources institute
c.8.1.2 sustainability management                                                           (wri). we also liaise regularly with a broad group of stakehold-
and organization                                                                            ers on key sustainability issues, track their most material topics
the importance we attach to the topic of sustainability is evi-                             and use them as guide for our activities.
dent in its central position within the company ’s organization
and in our programs and the measures we execute. efficient                                  in addition, we are committed to international standards and
sustainability management is a company-wide task that requires                              guidelines for sustainability. for example, we signed on to the
a clear organizational structure and a thorough anchoring of                                united nations global compact in 2003 and became a signatory
sustainability in our corporate culture. all our sustainability ac-                         to the global compact’s ceo water mandate in 2008; since fiscal
tivities are steered by the chief sustainability officer, who is a                          2011, we are a member of the steering committee of the global
member of our managing board. in order to coordinate and                                    compact’s “caring for climate” initiative. we regularly report on
manage our sustainability activities efficiently, we established                            our sustainability performance using the guidelines (g3.0) of
the siemens sustainability board, the sustainability office and                             the global reporting initiative (gri), which aim at high transpar-
the siemens sustainability advisory board.                                                  ency and comparability for corporate sustainability reporting.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    215
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      c.8.2 employees                                                                                   measures and to follow-up on improvements. due to the
                                                                                                        launch of our “vision 2020” concept and the related organiza-
             indicators 1                                                                               tional changes the survey originally scheduled for 2014 was
                                                                    year ended september 30,            postponed to 2015.
                                                                         2014                 2013
       employee turnover rate 2                                         9.1%               10.8%        demographic change, lifelong employability and cross-gener­
       female employees in management                                                                   ation collaboration are siemens’ key employee-related chal-
       positions (percentage of all management
                                                                                                        lenges to be mastered, and we see differences between regions
       positions) 3                                                   15.6%                15.6%
                                                                                                        and labor markets. to remain an employer of choice, we are
       expenses for continuing education
       (in millions of €) 4                                              276                  265       taking appropriate action based on local needs.
       expenses per employee for continuing
       education (in €) 4                                                769                  670       c.8.2.1 diversity
                                                                                                        as a global player, the vast and diverse range of our employees’
             1 continuing and discontinued operations.                                                 capabilities, experience and qualifications forms a substantial
             2 employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary
                exits from siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
                                                                                                        competitive advantage and supports our value proposition as
             3 employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary                an employer.
                responsibility, plus project managers.
             4 without travel expenses.
                                                                                                        all our activities, measures and programs fostering diversity
                                                                                                        follow these principles:
      excellent employees are one of siemens’ vital strengths. they
      have made siemens what it is today and their expertise, capa-                                     >> we want to have the best person for every position,
      bilities and high level of engagement are laying the foundation                                   >> we want to provide opportunities for diversity 
      for our future success. to stay competitive, we need to contin-                                      of experience and interaction, and
      uously win and retain the best and brightest employees world-                                     >> we want to achieve diversity of thinking across our company.
      wide. as an employer of choice, we empower our diverse and                                           
      engaged people worldwide with a high-performance culture,                                         we’ve developed our management recruitment processes to
      encourage life-long learning and development, offer an attrac-                                    ensure that the preliminary selection of candidates reflects the
      tive working environment and ensure occupational health                                           diversity of our customers and employees at all levels and in all
      and safety.                                                                                       regions. for example the percentage of women in management
                                                                                                        at siemens globally has nearly doubled since fiscal 2002 to
             employees by segments as of september 30, 2014                                             15.6 %.
             (in thousands) 1

                                                                                                        c.8.2.2 talent acquisition and employee
      energy: 81 (24%)                                                              other: 33 (10%)     development
                                                                                                        attracting, contacting, hiring, promoting and systematically
                                                                                  financial services:   developing the best employees worldwide for siemens – that is
                                                                                              3 (1%)
      healthcare: 48 (14%)                       343                                                    our goal in talent acquisition and employee development.

                                                                                                        in order to meet our requirements for qualified staff, we attract
                                                                            infrastructure & cities:
      industry: 90 (26%)                                                                 88 (26%)
                                                                                                        new talent to siemens and also work on retaining our existing
                                                                                                        workforce for the long term. to attract new talents, siemens has
                                                                                                        a wide array of programs in place. the performance manage-
             1   continuing operations.
                                                                                                        ment process (pmp) helps leaders and employees determine
                                                                                                        clear personal goals and share the feedback necessary to
      siemens believes that employee engagement is a key driver for                                     achieve them. the process also supports us in setting compen-
      sustainable company performance. an engaged workforce                                             sation, providing professional development opportunities and
      drives innovation, growth and profitability. since 2010, the                                      identifying talents throughout the company. to reflect the focus
      siemens global engagement survey has been seen as an im-                                          on high-performance within siemens, our compensation sys-
      portant management tool. in general the engagement survey                                         tem for our top executives and senior management worldwide
      will be conducted on a biennial basis to allow more time to set                                   includes a variable component.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                                  131    b.      corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
216
                                                                                                                              172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                              187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                              193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                              205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                              210   c.5   net assets position

c.8.2.3 learning and continuing education                                                   ­ mployees – ­­which already apply worldwide and are firmly
                                                                                            e
we encourage our employees at all locations to develop their                                ­anchored in our business conduct guidelines. underscoring
qualifications and expertise. in fiscal 2014, we invested around                             this commitment, siemens, the siemens central works coun-
€ 276 million for continuing education (without travel ex-                                   cil, the ­german trade union ig metall and the global industrial
penses), which equals about € 769 per employee. the expenses                                 union industriall have signed an international framework
include courses and training programs both for individual em-                                agreement on the principles of corporate responsibility.
ployees and for entire company units.
                                                                                            c.8.2.6 occupational safety and
siemens learning campus and siemens leadership excellence,                                  health management
two corporate-level organizations, are responsible for imple-                               occupational safety and health management are key elements
menting the global learning portfolio: siemens learning                                     of our company’s sustainable strategy and an integral part of
­campus offers regional learning opportunities to employees in                              our business processes. we therefore develop central programs
 all countries, ranging from courses for employees and manag-                               and processes that are applied locally and adapted to the respec-
 ers, through tailored training programs and services for groups,                           tive business needs. occupational safety and health manage-
 to solutions for entire organizations. additionally siemens                                ment are an integral part of our business conduct guidelines,
 leadership excellence (sle) is addressing our current and                                  our internal monitoring systems, and our risk management and
 ­future senior and top leaders. siemens continues to be one of                             internal controls. in addition, occupational safety is part of an
  germany ’s largest providers of professional education for sec-                           international framework agreement between siemens ag, the
  ondary school graduates (7,100 places for siemens trainees and                            central works council of siemens ag, ig metall and the global
  2,800 places for trainees from other companies). as in previous                           union industriall.
  years, we again made 10 % of our trainee positions available to
  disadvantaged youths.                                                                     promote a culture of safety – in the past, occupational safety
                                                                                            was often characterized by a focus on technical protective
c.8.2.4 siemens equity culture                                                              measures, an approach which achieved considerable success.
siemens established its first employee share program in                                     we are convinced, however, that further improvement can be
­germany as early as 1969. building on this successful program                              achieved only through an actively practiced occupational
 in germany, siemens decided in 2008 to extend employee and                                 safety culture and optimal working conditions – in every coun-
 management participation. today, siemens offers approxi-                                   try and for all siemens employees as well as those of our con-
 mately 97 % of its employees in 60 countries the opportunity to                            tractors. both, as a company and as individuals, we are respon-
 acquire siemens shares with the company’s financial support.                               sible for ensuring that the working environment at siemens is
 the share matching plan is based on a simple principle: em-                                safe at all times and for every employee. at present, local man-
 ployees participating in the plan will receive one siemens share                           agement systems and best practices exist which we can build
 without payment of consideration (matching share) for every                                on. we will achieve sustainability, however, only through a
 three siemens shares bought and continuously held over a                                   global and consistent approach.
 ­period of three years. only condition: the employee still needs
  to be employed by siemens. the main idea of the plan has                                  our customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities expect
  ­always been to make stock ownership available to employees at                            high safety standards from us. safe behavior is governed not
   all income levels.                                                                       only by complying with laws, regulations and procedures,
                                                                                            but also by the personal values of managers and employees.
we are convinced that empowering employees with shares                                      our “zero harm culture @ siemens” program, which has been
­motivates them to assume greater responsibilities and helps                                 launched in fiscal 2012 is having an increasingly positive
 them identify more closely with the company they work for – a                              ­impact. it contains three principles:
 fundamental prerequisite for the sustainable development of
 siemens.                                                                                   >> zero incidents – it is achievable.
                                                                                            >> health and safety – no compromises!
c.8.2.5 employee rights and relations                                                       >> we take care of each other!
to employee representatives
fair-minded collaboration among company management, em-                                     in addition to this global approach of “zero harm culture @
ployees and employee representatives plays a central role at                                siemens,” our businesses and countries themselves improve
siemens. as one of the largest corporate employers in germany                               safety locally through various activities depending on the cur-
and worldwide, we are committed to our social responsibil-                                  rent safety performance and the business needs. management
ity and respect and uphold the fundamental rights of our                                    attention is of utmost importance to foster and improve safety.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    217
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      therefore, the responsible ceo of the affected unit shows com-              >> using smart analytical systems and our domain expertise to
      mitment by personally reporting every work related fatality, its               develop new services from previously unstructured data
      cause and the measures taken to the siemens managing board.                    ­(examples of such services include anticipatory maintenance
                                                                                      work and cost-efficient warehousing offers.), and
      in fiscal 2014 the overall number of fatalities was lower than in           >> making medical imaging, in-vitro diagnostics, and health-
      fiscal 2013. we attribute this to the numerous and rigorous                     care it an integral part of outcome oriented treatment plans.
      ­actions and specific initiated projects. an implemented process            
       for the assessment of suppliers is supporting these activities.            another major focus is promoting more efficient energy use in
       furthermore, supply chain management and business have                     buildings, industrial facilities, and the transport sector. exam-
       developed collaborative plans to improve the ehs profile of                ples include the development of electric drives and mass trans-
       suppliers. regrettably, we report seven fatalities. of that three          portation systems such as local and long-distance trains and
       fatalities are with contractors (all are work-related fatalities)          subways.
       and four with siemens employees (one business trip fatality
       and three commuting accidents). in the previous year, there                across all focus areas, we recognize the vital importance of
       were five fatalities involving siemens employees and ten in-               ­sophisticated software solutions. this is true not just for the
       volving contractors.                                                        areas mentioned above but also in nearly all of the other fields
                                                                                   in which siemens is active.
      promoting health – siemens has established a high standard
      of occupational health and safety to avoid work-related health              r & d activities are carried out by the businesses of our former
      risks and promote employees’ health. we help our employees                  sectors and our corporate technology (ct) department. ct is a
      assume responsibility for their own personal behavior in                    worldwide network with primary locations in germany, the
      health-related matters, and support health-promoting general                u.s., china, russia, india, and austria. the more than 7,400 ct
      conditions within the company. we promote the physical,                     employees contribute their in-depth understanding of funda-
      mental and social well-being of our employees through a range               mental technologies, models, and trends, as well as their
      of activities governing the five topics of healthy work environ-            wealth of software and process expertise. the businesses focus
      ment, psychosocial well-being, physical activity, healthy nutri-            their r & d efforts on the next generations of their products and
      tion and medical care.                                                      solutions. in contrast, the aim of ct is to work with our operat-
                                                                                  ing units to develop the group’s technology and innovation
                                                                                  strategies, especially for the next generation of their products
      c.8.3 research and development                                              and solutions. in addition, ct strives to secure the technologi-
                                                                                  cal and innovative future through commonly developed core
      c.8.3.1 research and development –                                          technology initiatives such as future of automation, data to
      organization and strategy                                                   business or system integration. with its global network of ex-
      in fiscal 2014, we continued to focus on the following areas in             perts, our corporate research unit serves as a strategic partner
      research and development (r & d):                                           for siemens’ operating units. ct makes important contributions
                                                                                  along the entire value chain, from research and development
      >> ensuring long-term future viability,                                     to production technology, manufacturing processes, and the
      >> enhancing technological competitiveness, and                             testing of products and solutions. all of ct’s activities are cho-
      >> optimizing the allocation of r & d resources.                           sen to optimize the allocation of r & d resources, with a balance
                                                                                  between support the current offerings of our businesses and
      our r & d activities are geared toward ensuring economically                development of longer-term opportunities.
      sustainable energy supplies and developing software solutions,
      which are essential to maintaining the long-term competitive-               ct is also networked with leading universities and research
      ness of our businesses. accordingly, major focus areas include:             ­institutes worldwide. close collaborative approaches with such
                                                                                   partners are also a substantial part of our open innovation (oi)
      >> increasing the efficiency of renewable and conventional en-               concept, in which we receive input from internal as well as
         ergy sources for power generation and improving low-loss                  ­external experts that significantly contributes to the innovative
         electricity transmission systems,                                          power of the company. with oi we aim to overcome the bar­
      >> developing new solutions for smart grids and technologies                  riers of silo thinking, to prove and truly leverage the potential
         for storing energy from fluctuating renewable sources,                     of an open network enterprise.
      >> further development of industrial software to accelerate pro-
         cesses at every point along the value chain,




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
218
                                                                                                        172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                        187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                        193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                        205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                        210   c.5   net assets position

in addition, siemens takes part in publicly funded research pro-                                 ct incurred additional r & d expenses.
grams. the most important research areas include the develop-
ment of sustainable technologies including recycling, the com-                                           r&d indicators 1

munication of machines, the creation of new materials and                                                                                                            year ended september 30,
bio-technology.                                                                                    (in thousands)                                                         2014           2013
                                                                                                   employees 2                                                           28.8            28.1
ct offers extensive process and production consulting services                                     inventions 3                                                            8.6            8.3
for development and manufacturing units at siemens. ct em-                                         patent first filings 4                                                  4.3            4.0
ploys more than 4,200 software developers at locations in asia,
europe, and the americas. these specialists help our business                                            1 continuing operations.

units develop concepts from the initial idea to the finished                                             2 average number of employees in fiscal year.
                                                                                                         3 number of inventions reported by the business units in an internal report.
product. in addition, ct strategically handles the intellectual
                                                                                                         4 first filings as part of inventions submitted to patent offices.
property of siemens. around 440 experts help the company
register patents and trademarks, establish them, and put them
to profitable use.                                                                               as of september 30, 2014, siemens held approximately 56,100
                                                                                                 granted patents worldwide in its continuing operations. as of
c.8.3.2 research and development figures                                                         september 30, 2013, it held approximately 56,000 granted pat-
in fiscal 2014, we reported research and development expenses                                    ents. in terms of the number of published patent applications
of € 4.065 billion, compared to € 4.048 billion in fiscal 2013. the                              in calendar year 2013, siemens ranked fourth in germany and
resulting r & d intensity, defined as the ratio of r & d expenses                                second in europe. siemens was also ranked thirteenth in the
and revenue, was 5.7 %, above the r & d intensity in fiscal 2013.                                statistics for patents issued in the u.s. in calendar year 2013.

       r&d intensity                                                                                     rank in patent office statistics

                                                                              research and                                                                                     2013      2012
                                  research and development expenses           development
                                                     (in billions of €)          intensity 1       germany – german patent
                                                                                                   and trade mark office (dpma)                                                   4        3
 fy 2014          4.065                                                               5.7%
                                                                                                   europe – european patent office (epo)                                          2        2
 fy 2013          4.048                                                               5.5%
                                                                                                  u.s. – united states patent
                                                                                                  and trademark office (us pto)                                                  13       11
       1 
         r&d intensity is defined as the ratio of r&d expenses and revenue.




r & d expenses and intensity for the sectors in fiscal 2014 and                                  in our continuing operations, we had an average of approxi-
2013:                                                                                            mately 13,200 r & d employees in germany and approximately
                                                                                                 15,600 employees in approximately 30 other countries during
       r&d expenses                                                                              fiscal 2014.
                                                              year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014           2013        c.8.3.3 research and development
 energy                                                               873             872        in our businesses
 healthcare                                                       1,010            1,048         the r & d activities of the businesses in our former energy
 industry                                                         1,229            1,204         ­sector ­are focused on developing methods for the efficient
 infrastructure & cities                                              719             731         generation and transmission of electrical energy, including
                                                                                                  advanced gas turbines that increase the efficiency and reduce
                                                                                                  emissions of power plants, combined cycle power plants, to
                                                                                                  increase the availability of electricity through higher flexibility
       r&d intensity                                                                              and efficient and reliable power supply for decentralized struc-
                                                              year ended september 30,            tures such as those in the oil and gas industries, innovations
                                                                      2014           2013         for reducing the cost of wind turbines, innovations for increas-
 energy                                                            3.5%             3.3%          ing the efficiency of wind turbines (offshore and onshore), the
 healthcare                                                        8.1%             8.3%          development of an hvdc super grid and the development of a
 industry                                                          7.2%             7.1%          subsea power grid to make deep-sea oil and gas extraction
 infrastructure & cities                                           3.8%             4.1%          more profitable.




                                                                                                                                  247    d.    consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                  337    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                219
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position        242          ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                       c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                                  242          iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                       c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                 of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      the r & d activities in the businesses of our former healthcare             i­ncrease cost-effectiveness, and improve the quality of life in
      sector are focused on meeting customer requirements, which                   ­cities. to this end, the businesses develop building technologies
      are the result of two major trends: the world’s population con-               that conserve energy, solutions for ensuring an efficient and
      tinues to grow steadily and to get older. these trends increase               ­secure supply of electricity in cities, and intelligent traffic and
      the pressure on healthcare providers to treat more and more                    transport systems. in addition, researchers are looking for ways
      people at increasingly lower costs in order to stabilize rising                to integrate buildings into smart grids. through such integration,
      healthcare expenditures. to overcome the challenges of mak-                    the buildings can feed the electricity they produce into the grids
      ing healthcare more efficient and more effective, the health-                  and provide additional power during times of peak demand.
      care measures have to focus on the individual patient and the
      success of the treatment.
                                                                                  c.8.4 supply chain management
      one of the r & d fields involves the development of systems that
      help physicians make precise diagnoses of large numbers of                  the principal goal of supply chain management (scm) at
      ­patients and are also robust, easy to use, and inexpensive to              siemens is to ensure the availability and quality of the materi-
       purchase and maintain. examples include interventional radiol-             als we require to serve our customers also considering innova-
       ogy ­or catheter labs. ultrasound with wireless transducers is             tion strength and sustainability of our suppliers. we aim to
       also ideally suited for minimally-invasive procedures such as              strengthen our competitiveness by achieving substantial sav-
       nerve ­blockades, access to blood vessels, and positioning for             ings in our purchasing volume. in fiscal 2014, siemens’ pur-
       therapeutic interventions and biopsies.                                    chasing volume amounted to approximately € 37 billion, which
                                                                                  equaled roughly half of our total revenue. our primary strate-
      another focus area is automating clinical work processes and                gies for achieving savings in purchasing include:
      optimizing laboratory diagnostics, with a goal of enabling physi-
      cians to identify diseases more precisely and at an earlier stage.          >> siemens-wide managed volume,
      physicians are then able to monitor the effect of medications               >> sourcing from emerging markets, and
      more accurately and benefit from the evaluation and analytical              >> e-sourcing.
      capabilities of modern computer technology. as a result, thera-
      pies can be tailored more closely to a patient’s needs. healthcare          the successful restructuring of our scm function since the end
      also develops products that meet the specific, targeted require-            of fiscal 2013 led to a substantial decrease of the cost for the
      ments of the healthcare systems of emerging countries.                      scm organization, driven by optimizing towards a less complex
                                                                                  setup and process improvements. going forward, we will con-
      one of the r & d priorities of the businesses in our former                 tinue with reshaping the scm function in alignment with vision
      ­industry sector is the software-based integration of product               2020 to support the new siemens organization structure overall.
       development, production planning, production processes and
       services within the framework of product lifecycle manage-                 we also continue to strengthen siemens’ innovation power by
       ment. the objective is to accelerate processes at every point              benefiting from the innovative strength in our supplier net-
       along the value chain. innovative technologies can cut the time            work. in may 2014, we held our “1st siemens supplier innova-
       from design to market in the manufacturing industry by up to               tion day,” the first event of its kind on siemens corporate level.
       50 %. the further development of automation and drive tech-                with this event, we established a platform for regular dialogue
       nology, and industrial software in particular, plays a major role          with our top innovative suppliers at the ceo level. with this
       here. this applies to the product development and production               dialogue, we aim to increase our innovation capabilities, realize
       process as well as to the integration of the drive system. more-           shared growth potential and ensure long-term cost leadership.
       over, the businesses of the former industry sector are striving
       to achieve greater energy efficiency, reduce raw material con-             sustainability requirements – as a guiding principle for our
       sumption, and lower emissions. these objectives also guide                 supply chain management – are an integral part of all relevant
       the development of technology-based service concepts such as               supplier management processes – such as supplier selection,
       energy management and remote maintenance systems.                          supplier qualification and evaluation, and supplier develop-
                                                                                  ment. we require all of our suppliers to comply with the princi-
      r & d activities of the businesses in our former infrastruc-                ples of our code of conduct for siemens suppliers, which in-
      ture & cities sector focus on urban growth issues. main research            clude, besides others, respect for the basic rights of employees,
      fields therefore cover sustainable technologies for major metro-            strong safety & health and environmental protection standards
      politan areas and their infrastructures. the main aims are to in-           as well as zero-tolerance on corruption & bribery. we also re-
      crease energy efficiency, reduce burdens on the environment,                quire them to support its implementation in their own supply




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.    combined ­management report
220
                                                                                                         172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                         187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                         193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                         205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                         210   c.5   net assets position

chains. we have established and continually further develop                                 an elementary component of all our global marketing and sell-
a risk-based system of appropriate processes to enable us to                                ing activities is compliance with applicable laws and internal
systematically identify potential risks in our supply chain. it                             rules and regulations. therefore, siemens values and compli-
consists of sustainability self-assessments by suppliers, risk                              ance are an integral part of our training program.
evaluation conducted by our purchasing department, sustain-
ability questions within supplier quality audits and sustainabil-
ity audits by external auditors. to further encourage sustain-                              c.8.6 environmental portfolio
able business conduct throughout our entire global supply
chain, we are committed to building our suppliers’ competence                                       indicators 1
and intensifying knowledge transfers related to sustainability.
                                                                                                                                                        year ended september 30,
                                                                                                                                                              2014         2013
                                                                                              revenue generated by the siemens
c.8.5 distribution and customer ­relations                                                    environmental portfolio (in billions of €)                     33.0          31.9
                                                                                              accumulated annual customer reductions
our divisions have global responsibility for their business,                                  of carbon dioxide emissions generated by
                                                                                              elements from the siemens environmental
sales and results. they are able to support customers around                                  portfolio (in millions of metric tons)                          428          369
the world directly from their respective headquarters, espe-
cially for large contracts and projects. however, most of our                                       1 continuing operations.
customers are small and medium-sized companies and organi-
zations that require local support. to address local business                               our environmental portfolio serves as an example of how we
opportunities with them, we are able to draw upon a large                                   strive to align our business activities with the aforementioned
global sales force steered by our regional companies. they are                              megatrends, in this case climate change. the environmental
responsible for serving our customers in the respective coun-                               portfolio consists of products, systems, solutions and services
tries, leveraging our global network of market partners like                                (environmental portfolio elements) that reduce negative im-
­consultants, distributors, integrators, epcs and machine build-                            pacts on the environment and emissions of carbon dioxide and
 ers. we are currently selling products and services in almost                              other greenhouse gases (defined together in the following as
 every country in the world.                                                                carbon dioxide emissions) responsible for climate change.

sustainable customer relationships are the basis for our long-                              in addition to its environmental benefits, our environmental
term success. we employ a structured key account manage-                                    portfolio enables us to compete successfully in attractive mar-
ment (kam) approach throughout the company to take care of                                  kets and generate profitable growth. in fiscal 2014, revenue
our key customers. this means that we tailor our products and                               from continuing operations from the environmental portfolio
solutions to their size and regional site structures. we also                               amounted to € 33.0 billion, which accounted for 46 % of our rev-
­ensure that our key account managers continually develop and                               enue from continuing operations in this fiscal year. this rev­
 maintain relationships with them over the long term. this                                  enue includes revenue from newly developed and additionally
 ­approach is supplemented by our executive relationship pro-                               qualified elements, and excludes revenue from elements that
  gram. in this program, members of the company ’s executive                                no longer fulfill our qualifications.
  management stay in direct contact with selected customers
  and maintain an ongoing dialogue with them to familiarize                                 in fiscal 2010, we set ourselves a revenue target for the environ-
  siemens with their needs.                                                                 mental portfolio within the one siemens framework: to exceed
                                                                                            € 40 billion in revenue from the environmental portfolio by the
our business success is strongly dependent on the satisfaction                              end of fiscal 2014. due to recent and ongoing portfolio changes
of our customers. for this reason, we measure customer satis-                               we have not been able to achieve this target. siemens’ strategic
faction in every unit of the company using the net promoter                                 focus on technologies for energy efficiency and climate and en-
score (nps). this internationally recognized and commonly ap-                               vironmental protection will nevertheless remain in place. for
plied managerial performance indicator, which we determine                                  fiscal year 2014, almost three-quarter of the revenue from our
annually on a worldwide basis by means of customer surveys,                                 environmental portfolio were already generated with products
measures the referral rate of our customers. the nps for fiscal                             and solutions for energy efficiency.
2014 was based on the results of more than 25,500 interviews,
compared to more than 25,200 interviews in fiscal 2013. in                                  with our environmental portfolio, we intend, among other
­fiscal 2014, our company-wide nps once again increased com-                                things, to help our customers reduce their carbon dioxide foot-
 pared to previous fiscal year.                                                             print, cut their energy costs and improve their profitability




                                                                                                                          247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                          337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                   221
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      through an increase in productivity. taking together all ele-              as well as the integration of additionally qualified elements
      ments of the environmental portfolio that were installed at cus-           where evidence of fulfillment of the qualification criteria was
      tomer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002 and remain                                               ­ eriods. for additionally quali-
                                                                                 not available in prior reporting p
      in use today, we have reduced customer carbon dioxide emis-                fied environmental portfolio elements, we report their pri-
      sions by 428 million metric tons in fiscal 2014, which is the              or-year revenue and prior-year contribution to reducing cus-
      equivalent of the following thirteen cities’ combined yearly               tomer carbon dioxide emissions on a comparable basis.
      emissions: berlin, bogotá, cape town, hong kong, london, los               elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria are ex-
      angeles, melbourne, mexico city, moscow, new york city, são                cluded from our environmental portfolio.
      paulo, seoul and tokyo.
                                                                                 we report the revenue from our environmental portfolio and
      c.8.6.1 selection criteria                                                 annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions gener-
      an environmental portfolio element can be a product, a system,             ated by it in accordance with internal regulations defined in our
      a solution or a service. furthermore, a core component of a                environmental portfolio guideline. this guideline is based on
      system or solution may qualify as an environmental portfolio               the reporting principles of the greenhouse gas protocol corpo-
      element if the component provided by siemens is key to en-                 rate accounting and reporting standard, revised edition, and
      abling environmental benefits resulting from the system’s or               the greenhouse gas protocol for project accounting. the rev­
      solution’s overall application. to qualify for inclusion in the            enue generated by the environmental portfolio is recognized in
      ­environmental portfolio, an element must meet one of the se-              accordance with revenue recognition policies as described in
       lection criteria described below, which are energy efficiency,               note 2 in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .

       renewable energy or environmental technologies. products,
       systems, solutions and services with planned application in
       military use or nuclear power are not included in the environ-            c.8.7 environmental protection
       mental portfolio.
                                                                                           indicators 1

      >> energy efficiency: the criteria for energy efficiency are an                                                                            year ended september 30,
         improvement in energy efficiency of 20 % or more during the                                                                                   2014             2013

         customer use phase compared to the applicable baseline, or                   energy efficiency improvement
                                                                                      compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 2                           11%                5%
         a reduction of at least 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide
                                                                                      waste efficiency improvement
         equivalents per reporting ­period in the customer use phase.
                                                                                      compared to baseline in fiscal 2010                             12%                8%
         examples of elements that meet the energy efficiency crite-                  waste for disposal reduction
         rion are combined cycle power plants and intelligent build-                  compared to baseline in fiscal 2010                               8%             10%
         ing technology systems.                                                      carbon dioxide emission efficiency
      >> renewable energy: this criterion covers technologies in the                  improvement compared to baseline
                                                                                      in fiscal 2010                                                  20%              14%
         field of renewable energy sources such as wind turbines or
         smart grid applications and their respective core compo-
                                                                                           1 continuing operations.
         nents.
                                                                                           2 indicator incorporates weighted calculations related to the primary fuels
      >> environmental technologies: this criterion is related to wa-                         consumed in generating the energy used at our sites and the amount of energy
                                                                                              used to extract, convert and distribute the fuels consumed.
         ter and wastewater treatment, air pollution control, waste
         reduction, recycling, e-car infrastructure and its core compo-
         nents. it also includes the siemens consulting service which            to meet today’s global ecological challenges responsibly,
         analyzes customers’ environmental impact. additionally, a               siemens has a comprehensive ehs (environmental protection,
         criterion for the healthcare sector is an environmental                 health management and safety) management system. the pro-
         ­impact reduction in terms of noise, radiation or total weight          cess requirements of this management system help our operat-
          of at least 25 % compared to the baseline.                            ing units comply with applicable laws, regulations and customer
                                                                                 requirements, satisfy our corporate requirements properly and
      c.8.6.2 governance and reporting approach                                  achieve our siemens-wide environmental targets. the environ-
      the qualification of environmental portfolio elements as well              mental protection management system requires that our rele-
      as their respective reporting is based on defined processes and            vant production and office sites must implement an environ-
      criteria. the business portfolio of siemens’ continuing opera-             mental management system which fulfills the requirements of
      tions is reviewed annually regarding the qualification of envi-            the internationally recognized iso 14001 standard and also our
      ronmental portfolio elements based on the criteria described               own internal standard, known as “specifications on environ-
      before. this covers the inclusion of newly developed elements              mentally compatible product and system design.” this internal




      108   a.   to our shareholders               131   b.   corporate ­governance                               171   c.    combined ­management report
222
                                                                                                                  172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                  187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                  193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                  205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                  210   c.5   net assets position

standard defines requirements to reduce the environmental                                   management systems. due to this and to reasonable energy
­impact of our products and systems during the production, use                              procurement and increased share of renewable energy in elec-
 and disposal phase and is an integral part of our business pro-                            tricity mix the co2 efficiency was increased considerably.
 cesses. we conduct regular internal reviews of our environmen-
 tal performance and progress, in order to create a cycle of con-                           c.8.7.2 product-related
 tinual improvement.                                                                        environmental protection
                                                                                            the major focus of product-related environmental protection is
our commitment to continual improvement led to two environ-                                 to improve the overall environmental performance of our prod-
mental protection programs in fiscal 2012: “serve the environ-                              ucts and systems. therefore the existing “product eco excel-
ment” for industrial environmental protection and “product eco                              lence” program will continue its approach regarding elements
excellence” for product-related environmental protection. both                              related to the product life cycle by integrating aspects of the
programs were reconfirmed and extended in fiscal 2014. the                                  circular economy and resource efficiency. the program has a
general objectives to improve energy and resource efficiency, to                            modular design and offers innovative solutions to accomplish
fulfill growing international requirements with regard to envi-                             a higher transparency in terms of declarable substances, to de-
ronmental protection, to increase customer benefits, and to                                 velop and integrate a set of measures to improve resource effi-
proactively strengthen our position as a sustainable company                                ciency of materials (e.g. scarcity, criticality) and to increase our
will be kept. the two reconfirmed programs will run from 2015                               claim on product environmental footprint information. on the
to 2020.                                                                                    basis of mandatory requirements as defined in our internal
                                                                                            ­environmental standard, we support the reduction of the envi-
c.8.7.1 industrial environmental protection                                                  ronmental impacts of our products and systems during product
our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on opti-                               development, production, use and end of life. additionally, the
mizing energy and resource efficiency at our sites. with the                                 program aims to better prepare the operating units for future
current “serve the environment” program we have been com-                                    regulatory and customer requirements, to strengthen environ-
mitted to the following siemens-wide main targets in the time                                mental communication, and to broaden environmental aware-
­period fiscal 2011 to 2014:                                                                 ness among our employees. in the time p       ­ eriod fiscal 2012 to
                                                                                             fiscal 2014 for the main elements of the program following
>> to continue our systematic effort to improve                                              ­objectives have been reached:
   energy efficiency, ­and thereby achieve corresponding
   ­improvement in our carbon dioxide efficiency;                                           >> transparency was enhanced with our list of declarable sub-
>> to improve the waste efficiency each year by 1 %; and                                       stances (lods), comprising substances that are restricted in
>> to reduce waste for disposal each year by 1 %.                                             use due to regional or application-specific regulations.
                                                                                            >> development and application of a methodological approach
furthermore, siemens continued with the water risk manage-                                     for better assessing risks such as environmental, toxicologi-
ment approach: in locations where there are particular water                                   cal and future availability risks associated with used materi-
risks or negative impacts on the environment (for example as a                                 als and substances. the application has been verified within
result of aridity, high waste-water loads or poorly developed                                  our business.
technical infrastructure), the local sites need to define targets                           >> establishment of a harmonized procedure on the basis of iso
matched to local conditions. finally, our “serve the environ-                                  14040 / 44 (life-cycle-assessment) for determining the “eco-
ment” program also addressed air pollution by seeking alterna-                                 logical footprint” of our products and thereof derived envi-
tive solutions for any ozone-depleting substances still in legally                             ronmental product declarations based on the requirements
permissible use and control voc (volatile organic compounds)                                   of iso 14025. 
emissions. for continuation of the serve the environment pro-
gram energy and waste efficiency aspects will be integrated
into our supply chain. air pollution control will be considered
holistically, taking account not only of own emissions but also
of the local air immission situation at our production plants
and offices. climate change induced impacts of water use in
our businesses will also be integrated.

we achieved the targets we set ourselves for fiscal 2014. the
energy efficiency could be improved due to implementation of
energy efficiency measures and implementation of energy




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    223
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      c.8.8 corporate citizenship
      siemens is committed to providing long-term benefits to the
      societies in which we operate, through corporate citizenship
      activities. these activities can take a variety of forms ranging
      from philanthropic disaster relief to more strategic shared
      value or inclusive business approaches like our mobile clinics
      in india.

      the responsibility for choosing and carrying out charitable
      ­activities lies with the local units in each country. this ensures
       that we provide support where it is needed most. in doing so,
       we apply high management standards and strategically focus
       our corporate citizenship activities in areas where our company
       competencies, resources and employee volunteering can make
       a meaningful difference:

      >> education and science: our goal is to maintain a continu-
         ous dialogue with young people and to identify and foster
         talent from an early age on. we support educational and re-
         search activities particularly in natural sciences, engineering
         and healthcare.
      >> social: projects in this area aim to bring about a systematic
         and lasting improvement in people’s living conditions. in
         ­addition, we provide urgent humanitarian relief, including
          ­financial and technical assistance after natural disasters.
      >> environment: we want to make an effective contribution
           towards protecting the environment, particularly through
           our core competencies, and raise environmental awareness
           among younger generations.
      >> arts and culture: we support arts and culture because a
           ­society’s cultural heritage is a key aspect of its identity.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance   171   c.    combined ­management report
224
                                                                                       172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                       187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                       193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                       205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                       210   c.5   net assets position

       c.9  report on expected developments and associated
             ­material opportunities and risks

c.9.1 report on expected developments                                                       growth rate of 2014. the newly re-elected government has to
                                                                                            enact substantial structural reforms to increase the growth
c.9.1.1 worldwide economy                                                                   ­potential of the country.
for the year 2015 we expect world gdp to expand by 3.2 % with
fixed investment and manufacturing value added growing                                      as in past years, asia, australia is expected to exhibit the high-
even more strongly at 4.5 % and 3.9 %, respectively. the slight                             est gdp growth. we expect china to contribute the main part of
acceleration compared to 2.7 % gdp growth anticipated in 2014                               the region’s growth. however, the chinese economy still suf-
is expected to be driven mainly by the u.s. economy which                                   fers from overcapacities in several industries and fragile real
seems to be on a stable recovery path. the monetary environ-                                estate and banking sectors. however, the government should
ment is still expansive which should further support growth                                 be able to contain these problems if they become more severe.
especially in the housing market. nevertheless the outlook for                              china’s gradual shift from an investment-driven to a consump-
the world economy remains uncertain, as indicated by the                                    tion-driven economy is expected to slow down its economy in
­deterioration of many early indicators (especially for the euro                            the near term. for india, the outlook for next year is better than
 zone and china), the increased volatility in equity markets in                             in 2014. growth should pick up slightly. however, similar to
 october, and the severe decline in oil prices since summer                                 brazil, the country needs structural reforms and substantial
 2014. on the one hand, the oil price decline is a symptom of                               ­improvements in infrastructure.
 slack global demand relative to supply. on the other hand it is
 a stabilizing factor for oil importing countries, because it in-                           all in all, for 2015 we expect growth of the global economy to
 creases purchasing power for consumers and reduces costs for                               accelerate slightly compared to 2014. however, there is an un-
 many businesses. the biggest downside risks stem from geo-                                 usually high number of downside risks, which – even if only
 political tensions. an escalation of the ukraine conflict would                            some of them materialize – could substantially weigh on global
 lead to a steep decline in investment activity. similarly, further                         economic activity. on the upside, a quick solution of political
 expansion of the “islamic state” (including control over import-                           conflicts together with strong economic growth in the u.s.
 ant oil fields) could disrupt global oil markets and hit the global                        could boost global demand.
 economy. further downside risks would also emerge from an
 uncontrolled spread of the ebola epidemic outside west-africa.                             the forecasts presented here for gdp, gross fixed investments
                                                                                            and manufacturing value added are based on a report from ihs
in the region europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east the condition                             global insight dated october 15, 2014.
of many euro zone economies is a cause for concern. given the
latest indicators, there is some danger of a possible premature                             c.9.1.2 market development
lapse of the recovery in the euro zone. in the near term, defla-                            in fiscal 2015, we expect growth in the markets served by the
tion is the most important threat to these economies. while                                 power and gas division to remain on a low level. while we
the german economy is expected to still suffer from euro zone                               anticipate slightly increasing market volume year-over-year in
weakness and geopolitical tensions, it should also benefit from                             advanced gas turbine markets – especially in the large-scale
stabilizing factors, such as a relatively strong service sector,                            range (h class) – we also expect continued price declines due
solid consumer demand, strong employment data, a weaker                                     to manufacturing overcapacities and increased competitive
euro and cheaper energy. for russia, the outlook for 2015                                   pressure. we expect growth in the division’s oil and gas mar-
­depends on the future course of the ukraine conflict and the                               kets to accelerate in south america and eastern europe (e.g.
 reaction of western countries, which is not foreseeable now.                               turkey, azerbaijan). investments in markets in the americas
 while many african ­countries have achieved a steeper growth                               are likely to pick up, despite delays, due mainly to demand for
 path in recent years, they might be negatively affected by lower                           gas-fired power plants. we anticipate flat development for the
 raw material prices and by the ebola epidemic in west-africa.                              coal-fired steam power plant market, due to an anticipated
                                                                                            slow-down in china. we expect that clear growth in distributed
for the americas, we expect the u.s. economy to be the deci-                                power generation will continue to support growth for the
sive force. the u.s. recovery seems to be broad-based and sup-                              ­divisions’ markets as a whole.
ported by improving labor markets. the possible start of tight-
ening monetary measures should not disrupt the underlying                                   for the markets served by our wind power and renewables
recovery. the outlook for brazil, the second-largest economy in                             division, we expect growth in fiscal 2015 to come in slightly
the americas region, is less optimistic. the expected gdp                                   lower than in fiscal 2014, which saw particularly strong growth
growth rate of 1.0 % for 2015 (a little more than the population                            rates. for onshore wind power markets, investments in the u.s.
growth rate) has to be regarded as very low, given the poor                                 are expected to decline in fiscal 2015, following the strong prior




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    225
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      fiscal year. in europe, we expect the onshore market to see con-              we expect markets served by our mobility division to grow
      tinuous moderate growth. in both cases, market development                    slightly in fiscal 2015. within europe and the middle east we
      strongly depends on the energy policy framework, including                    expect decisions on large contract tenders in fiscal 2015, stem-
      tax incentives in the u.s. and regulatory frameworks in ger-                  ming from major public rail investments in the u.k. and the
      many and the u.k. we expect these latter factors to have a sim-               middle east. liberalization of the turkish rail industry is on­
      ilar effect on growth in the offshore wind power market, which                going and large contract tenders are expected in the upcoming
      is dominated by europe. we expect the offshore wind power                     years. within the americas, we expect a continued high level of
      markets in asia, australia and the americas to remain largely                 investments in mainline passenger and urban transport infra-
      undeveloped in the short term.                                                structures in the u.s. within the asia, australia region, we ex-
                                                                                    pect g
                                                                                         ­ rowth in fiscal 2015 to benefit from a recovery of china’s
      for the markets served by our energy management division,                     high-speed rail infrastructure market. in australia, we expect
      we expect overall moderate growth in fiscal 2015. within the                  demand ­to be held back by lower investments in infrastructure
      division’s utility markets, we expect a slight increase in fiscal             industries.
      2015. on a regional basis, the strongest growth in the utility
      markets is expected to come from the europe, c.i.s., africa,                  in fiscal 2015, we do not expect growth momentum to acceler-
      ­middle east region. here we expect strong demand from the                    ate in markets served by our digital factory and process
       middle east and growth in transmission investments due to the                ­industries and drives divisions compared to fiscal 2014. with
       integration of renewable sources into existing power distribu-                the exception of the oil and gas industry, we expect conserva-
       tion networks. this growth may be partly offset by lower                      tive investments in industries served by both divisions over-
       ­demand from major european utility companies which have an-                  all, particularly in europe. furthermore, we expect demand
        nounced plans to ­reduce their capital expenditures. we expect               from emerging markets, which were growth drivers in the
        utility markets in the americas to grow slightly in fiscal 2015.             past, to be weak in fiscal 2015, with the exception of china.
        markets in the asia, australia region are expected to grow                   within the r­ egion europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east, we expect
        slightly, benefiting from demand from utility companies in the               markets in europe to continue to grow, albeit at a slow pace.
        emerging countries of the region. we expect the division’s oil               while we e     ­ xpect moderate growth rates in some central euro-
        and gas market to grow moderately, with the strongest growth                 pean countries, we expect growth to remain weak in the
        rates in the americas. production of unconventional oil and gas              ­industrial markets of some large economies, such as france
        is expected to be the main growth driver in the americas, while               and italy. while we expect currency-related headwinds for
        growth in the asia, australia region is driven by investments in              ­export-oriented industries in the euro-zone to recede in fiscal
        liquefied natural gas (lng) infrastructure. the division’s miner-              2015 compared to fiscal 2014, we expect weak demand from
        als markets are ­expected to grow slightly in fiscal 2015 driven by            emerging markets to limit growth opportunities for those
        demand in the asia, australia region. overcapacities burden the                ­industries in fiscal 2015. the latter development is expected to
        division’s metals markets, which are expected to grow even                      be particularly evident in germany ’s export-­      oriented oem
        more slowly than the minerals markets. we expect a more posi-                   businesses, such as the machine building industry. also, we
        tive outlook in the division’s chemicals and non-residential con-               expect growth in g  ­ ermany ’s large automotive industry to slow
        struction markets. both markets are forecast to grow moderately                 in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014, resulting in less expan-
        in fiscal 2015 year-over-year. in all regions the chemical industry             sive investments year-over-year. within the americas, we
        is contributing to growth. for the non-residential construction                 ­expect that growth will be driven mainly by the u.s., which
        markets, we e ­ xpect growth to be driven by the recovery of u.s.                will also benefit manu­facturing industries in ­canada and mex-
        markets and by o    ­ ngoing construction investments in asia,                   ico. we expect a less favorable development in brazil and
        ­australia, particularly in china.                                               other latin american countries, where industrial growth is
                                                                                         largely dependent on mining industries. within the asia, aus-
      for the markets served by our building technologies division,                      tralia region, we expect industrial markets in china to grow
      we expect moderate growth in fiscal 2015. on a regional basis,                     moderately in fiscal 2015, but below the growth rates in previ-
      we expect growth in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east to pick                    ous years, as development in the country ’s export-­oriented
      up in fiscal 2015. within the region, we expect growth rates in                    industries is held back by a stronger currency, higher labor
      europe including germany to increase slightly year-over-year.                      costs and weakness in many other emerging economies which
      for the middle east we expect moderate growth rates year-                          are important for chinese exports. growth in asia, a   ­ ustralia is
      over-year. within the americas, we expect the division to ben-                     expected to benefit from a pick-up of industrial markets in
      efit from a slow but continued recovery in u.s. construction                       south korea. industrial markets in india are e   ­ xpected to im-
      markets. we expect markets in the asia, australia region to                   prove slightly. overall, rising regional political uncertainties
      grow moderately as in fiscal 2014.                                                 may further limit investment behavior.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate ­governance                      171   c.    combined ­management report
226
                                                                                                            172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                            187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                            193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                            205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                            210   c.5   net assets position

for fiscal 2015, we expect slight growth in the markets served                              we have improved our natural hedge on a global basis through
by healthcare. we expect markets in emerging countries to                                   geographic distribution of our production facilities during the
grow faster than markets in the industrialized countries. in                                past. nevertheless, siemens is still a net exporter from the euro
emerging markets, we expect continued strong demand, in                                     zone to the rest of the world, so a weak euro is principally
particular for entry-level products and solutions, as these coun-                           ­favorable for our business and a strong euro is principally un­
tries build up their healthcare infrastructure to provide their                              favorable. in addition to the natural hedging strategy just men-
populations with affordable access to modern medical technol-                                tioned, we also hedge currency risk in our export business
ogy, including in rural areas. in contrast, demand in industrial-                            ­using derivative financial instruments, see    note 30 in   d.6

ized countries is expected to be held back by healthcare                                      notes to consolidated financial statements . we expect these

­reforms and budgetary constraints. we expect industrialized                                  steps to help us limit effects on income related to currency in
 countries – especially those more reliant on government                                      fiscal 2015.
 healthcare expenditures – to continue to focus on improving
 the efficiency of healthcare and on slowing the growth of                                  revenue growth
 healthcare spending, thus driving demand for cost-efficient                                given our complex economic and market developments, as
 and high-throughput products and solutions. for the healthcare                             ­described in the previous section, we expect that fiscal 2015
 market overall, we anticipate that the trends towards entry-­level                          revenue for siemens on an organic basis, excluding currency
 solutions, higher efficiency and focus on patient outcomes will                             translation and portfolio effects, will be flat year-over-year. we
 continue. on a regional basis, we expect that growth in the                                 expect that a moderate organic revenue decline particularly in
 americas in fiscal 2015 will be supported by moderate growth                                our power and gas division will be offset by organic revenue
 in the u.s., where we expect the trends towards higher effi-                                growth in other divisions. also, we expect a stabilizing effect
 ciency and increased accountability of healthcare providers to                              on revenue from conversion of our order backlog (defined as
 continue. our customers continue to face legislative and regu-                              the sum of order backlogs of our industrial business) which
 latory reimbursement risks as governments and regulators                                    totaled € 100 billion as of september 30, 2014. from this back-
 seek to curb healthcare costs. within the europe, c.i.s., africa,                           log we e   ­ xpect to convert approximately € 37 billion of past
 middle east region, we expect the gradual stabilizing of euro-                              ­orders into current revenue in fiscal 2015. we expect that orders
 pean markets to continue in fiscal 2015. while we expect the                                 for fiscal 2015 will exceed revenue, leading to a book-to-bill
 markets in the region asia, australia to grow faster than other                              ­ratio above 1.
 regions in fiscal 2015, we expect growth to slow down year-
 over-year. this is expected to be particularly evident in china,                           profitability
 where we expect increasing price and competitive pressure due                              in fiscal 2015, we expect substantial gains from divestments
 mainly to increasing numbers of local vendors.                                             mentioned in this annual report, particularly including the sale
                                                                                            of our stake in bsh and the sale of our hearing aid business. we
our sfs division is geared to siemens’ industrial business and                              expect that these gains will more than offset charges associated
its markets. as such sfs is, among other factors, influenced by                             with our “vision 2020” concept, which includes e   ­ fforts to increase
the overall business development of the markets served by our                               ­customer proximity, accelerate innovation, and streamline our
industrial business.                                                                         management and internal service processes. we anticipate that
                                                                                             such charges during fiscal 2015 will be in the mid-to-high triple-­
c.9.1.3 siemens group                                                                        digit-million euro range. we expect a significant rise in net
we are basing our outlook for fiscal 2015 for the siemens group                              ­income in fiscal 2015, which will enable us to increase basic
and its segments on the above-mentioned expectations regard-                                  earnings per share (eps) from net income by at least 15 % from
ing the overall economic situation and specific market condi-                                 € 6.37 in fiscal 2014. in this forecast we also expect eps growth
tions for the next fiscal year.                                                               to benefit modestly from our current program to repurchase
                                                                                              siemens shares in a volume of up to € 4 billion; repurchases
this outlook excludes impacts related to legal and regulatory                                 ­under this program in fiscal 2014 totaled € 1.1 billion.
matters.
                                                                                            our assumptions regarding net income for fiscal 2015 in-
we are exposed to currency translation effects, particularly in-                            clude targeted increases in selling and r & d expenses, aimed at
volving the us$, british £ and currencies of emerging markets,                              organic volume growth and strengthening our capacities for
such as china, india and brazil. during fiscal 2014, the average                            innovation. as part of our one siemens framework, we target a
exchange rate conversion for our large volume of us$-denomi-                                total cost productivity increase of 3 % to 4 %. furthermore, we
nated revenue was us$ 1.357 per euro. while we expect vola-                                 expect a significant reduction in project charges compared to
tility in global currency markets to continue in fiscal 2015,                               fiscal 2014.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                      227
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      additionally, we assume pricing pressure on our offerings of                  to cost a  ­ pprox­imately € 0.6 billion in fiscal 2015, with costs in
      around 2.5 % in fiscal 2015, with the wind power and renew-                   the second h   ­ alf-year higher than in the first half. among other
      ables division, the power and gas division and healthcare                     factors, results from corporate items are dependent on
      ­being affected the most. furthermore, we expect upward pres-                 changes in the fair value of warrants we issued together with
       sure on costs from wage inflation of around 3 % to 4 %.                      us$ 3 billion in bonds in fiscal 2012. centrally carried pen-
                                                                                    sion expenses are e    ­ xpected to total approximately € 0.5 billion
      beginning with fiscal 2015, we defined profit margin ranges for               in fiscal 2015. because our enhanced profit definition now
      our industrial business and sfs, which are based on the profit                ­excludes expenses from amortization of intangible assets
      margins of the respective relevant competitors. the profit mar-                ­acquired in business combinations, we report these expenses
      gin ranges for our industrial business and for sfs are as f­ ollows:            separately within our reconciliation to consolidated financial
                                                                                      statements. in fiscal 2014, these expenses were a negative
             profit margin ranges                                                     € 0.5 billion and we expect them to be on a similar level in
                                                                 margin range      ­fiscal 2015.
       power and gas                                                11 – 15%
       wind power and renewables                                       5 – 8%      income from discontinued operations in fiscal 2015 is expected
       energy management                                             7 – 10%       to rise sharply year-over-year, benefiting particularly from a
       building technologies                                         8 – 11%       substantial gain on the sale of our hearing aid business.
       mobility                                                        6 – 9%
       digital factory                                              14 – 20%       capital efficiency
       process industries and drives                                 8 – 12%       our primary measure for managing and controlling our capital
       healthcare                                                   15 – 19%       efficiency is return on capital employed from continuing and dis-
       sfs (roe (after taxes))                                      15 – 20%       continued operations (roce). due mainly to our expec­tations
                                                                                   regarding the development of net income, we expect to achieve
                                                                                   roce clearly in our target range of 15% to 20% in ­fiscal 2015.

      we expect that nearly all of our divisions and healthcare will               capital structure
      reach their margin ranges in fiscal 2015. our energy manage-                 to measure our capital structure we use the ratio of industrial
      ment division and our wind power and renewables division,                    net debt to ebitda, and seek to achieve a ratio of up to 1.0. we
      whose profit margins were below their respective ranges in fis-              expect to achieve a ratio below 1.0 in fiscal 2015, but clearly
      cal 2014, are expected to significantly improve their profitability          above the fiscal 2014 level of 0.15, due to portfolio measures
      in fiscal 2015. while we expect the profit margin for our power              that we initiated in fiscal 2014 and our share buyback program,
      and gas division to be in the target range in fiscal 2015, we ex-            which are expected to result in significant net cash outflows
      pect it will come in significantly below the margin of 17.4 %                in fiscal 2015.
      achieved in fiscal 2014. besides the above-mentioned market
      conditions, the reasons for this development are targeted                    dividend
      ­expense increases for growth and innovation as well as consol-              we intend to continue providing an attractive return to share-
       idation early in fiscal 2015 of our acquisition of the aero-deriva-         holders. therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a
       tive turbine and compressor business of rolls-royce, among                  dividend payout of 40 % to 60 % of net income, which for this
       other factors. overall, we expect an aggregate profit margin for            purpose we may adjust to exclude selected exceptional non-
       our industrial business of 10 % to 11 %, compared to 10.6 % in              cash effects. as in the past, we intend to fund the dividend pay-
       fiscal 2014. we expect profit for sfs, which is outside our indus-          out from free cash flow.
       trial business, to be near the prior-year level.
                                                                                   c.9.1.4 overall assessment
      within our reconciliation to consolidated financial state-                   we believe that our business environment will be complex in
      ments, profit from centrally managed portfolio activities is                 fiscal 2015, among other things due to geopolitical tensions. we
      expected to rise sharply year-over-year, benefiting from a gain              expect revenue on an organic basis to remain flat year-over-year,
      on the sale of our stake in bsh. this positive effect is expected            and orders to exceed revenue for a book-to-bill ratio above 1. fur-
      to be partly offset by burdens that may arise from remaining                 thermore, we expect that gains from divestments will enable us
      centrally managed portfolio activities. while we anticipate                  to increase basic eps from net income by at least 15% from €6.37
      that sre will continue with real estate disposals depending on               in fiscal 2014. for our industrial business, we expect a profit
      market conditions, we expect gains from disposals to be lower                margin of 10 % to 11 %. this outlook excludes impacts from legal
      in fiscal 2015 than in fiscal 2014. corporate items are expected             and regulatory matters.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                      171   c.    combined ­management report
228
                                                                                                           172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                           187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                           193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                           205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                           210   c.5   net assets position

overall, the actual development for siemens and its segments                                 system. it considers a company ’s strategy, the efficiency and
may vary, positively or negatively, from our expectations due to                             effectiveness of its business operations, the reliability of its
the risks and opportunities described below. see         c.9.3 risks                        ­financial reporting as well as compliance with relevant laws
as well as    c.9.4 opportunities . this report on expected devel-                           and regulations to be equally important.
opments should be read in conjunction with           e.6 notes and

forward-looking statements .                                                                the erm process aims for early identification and evaluation of,
                                                                                            and response regarding, risks and opportunities that could ma-
                                                                                            terially affect the achievement of our strategic, operational,
c.9.2 risk management                                                                       ­financial and compliance objectives. our erm is based on a net
                                                                                             risk approach, covering risks and opportunities remaining after
c.9.2.1 basic principles of the risk                                                         the execution of existing control measures. in order to provide
management                                                                                   a comprehensive view on our business activities, risks and op-
our risk management policy stems from a philosophy of pursu-                                 portunities are identified in a structured way combining ele-
ing sustainable growth and creating economic value while                                     ments of both top-down and bottom-up approaches. risks and
avoiding and managing inappropriate risks. as risk manage-                                   opportunities are generally reported on a quarterly basis. this
ment is an integral part of how we plan and execute our busi-                                regular reporting process is complemented by an ad-hoc
ness strategies, our risk management policy is set by the man-                               ­reporting process that aims to escalate critical issues in a timely
aging board. our organizational and accountability structure as                               manner. relevant risks and opportunities are prioritized in
of september 30, 2014 requires each of the respective manage-                                 terms of impact and likelihood, considering different perspec-
ments of our sectors, sfs, sre, regions and corporate units to                                tives, including business objectives, reputation and regulatory
implement risk management programs that are tailored to their                                 matters. the bottom-up identification and prioritization pro-
specific industries and responsibilities, while being consistent                              cess is supported by workshops with the respective manage-
with the overall policy established by the managing board.                                    ment of the sector, sfs, sre, regional and corporate unit orga-
                                                                                              nizations. this top-down element ensures that potential new
c.9.2.2 enterprise risk management process                                                    risks and opportunities are discussed at the management level
we have implemented and coordinated a set of risk manage-                                     and are included in the subsequent reporting process, if found
ment and control systems which support us in the early recog-                                 to be relevant. reported risks and opportunities are analyzed
nition of developments jeopardizing the continuity of our busi-                               regarding potential cumulative effects and are aggregated at
ness. the most important of these systems include our                                         sector, sfs, sre, regional and corporate level.
enterprise-wide processes for strategic planning and manage-
ment reporting. strategic planning is intended to support us in                             responsibilities are assigned for all relevant risks and opportu-
considering potential risks well in advance of major business                               nities with the hierarchical level of responsibility depending on
decisions, while management reporting is intended to enable                                 the significance of the respective risk or opportunity. in a first
us to monitor such risks more closely as our business pro-                                  step, assuming responsibility for a specific risk or opportunity
gresses. our internal auditors regularly review the adequacy                                involves deciding upon one of our general response strategies,
and effectiveness of our risk management system. accordingly,                               or a combination of them. our general response strategies with
if deficits are detected, it is possible to adopt appropriate mea-                          respect to risks are avoidance, transfer, reduction or acceptance
sures for their elimination. this coordination of processes and                             of the relevant risk. our general response strategies with
procedures is intended to help ensure that the managing board                               ­respect to opportunities are partial or complete realization of
and the supervisory board are fully informed about significant                               the relevant opportunity. in a second step, responsibility for a
risks in a timely manner.                                                                    risk or opportunity also involves the development, initiation
                                                                                             and monitoring of appropriate response measures correspond-
risk management at siemens is based on a comprehensive, in-                                  ing to the chosen response strategy. these response measures
teractive and management-oriented enterprise risk manage-                                    have to be specifically tailored to allow for effective risk man-
ment (erm) approach that is integrated into the organization                                 agement. accordingly, we have developed a variety of response
and that addresses both risks and opportunities. our erm                                     measures with different characteristics: for example, we miti-
­approach is based on the worldwide accepted enterprise risk                                 gate the risk of fluctuations in currency and interest rates by
 management – integrated framework (2004) developed by the                                   engaging in hedging activities. regarding our long-term proj-
 committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway com-                                  ects, systematic and comprehensive project management with
 mission (coso). the framework connects the erm process                                      standardized project milestones, including provisional accep-
 with our financial reporting process and our internal control                               tances during project execution, and complemented by clearly




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    229
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      defined approval processes assists us in identifying and re-                                      of fluctuations in economic activity and customer demand by
      sponding to project risks at an early stage, even before entering                                 closely monitoring the macroeconomic conditions and devel-
      the bidding phase. furthermore, we maintain appropriate                                           opments in relevant industries, and by adjusting capacity and
      ­insurance levels for potential cases of damage and liability risks                               implementing cost-reduction measures in a timely and consis-
       in order to reduce our exposure to such risks and to avoid or                                    tent manner, if deemed necessary.
       minimize potential losses. among others, we address the risk



      c.9.2.3 risk management organization
      and responsibilities

             operational and organizational structure of the enterprise risk management (erm) process as of september 30, 2014


                                         managing board                                                                                  audit committee
                 overall responsibility for the risk and internal control system.                                    oversees the effectiveness of the risk management and
                              defines risk policy and erm strategy.                                                                  internal control system.



                 corporate risk & internal control committee (cric)                                                        chief risk & internal control officer
             reports to and supports the managing board in matters ­relating                                  chairman of the cric. defines and monitors application of erm strategy,
             to the implementation, operation and oversight of an effective                                  p
                                                                                                             ­ olicy and methodology. consolidates siemens wide risk and opportunity
                            risk and internal control system.                                                                            profile for cric.




                        sector risk & internal                                        lead country risk & internal
                        control committees                                               control committees
                     oversee the risk and internal control activities for their area of responsibility and provide
                               the ­management with information necessary to report to the cric.



                        sector management 1                                           lead country management                                       heads of corporate units
                                  implement erm system and ensure management and monitoring of risks and opportunities in their respective organization.


             1    the term “sector” in this chart comprises sectors, sfs and sre.




      to oversee the erm process and to further drive the integration                                   c.9.3 risks
      and harmonization of existing control activities to align with
      legal and operational requirements, the managing board estab-                                     below we describe the risks that could have a material adverse
      lished a corporate risk and internal control department,                                          effect on our business, financial condition (including effects on
      headed by the chief risk & internal control officer, and a cor­                                   assets, liabilities and cash flows), results of operations and
      porate risk and internal control committee (cric). the cric                                       repu­tation. the order in which the risks are presented in each
      ­obtains risk and opportunity information from the risk com-                                      of the four categories reflects the currently estimated relative
      mittees established at the sector, sfs, sre and regional level as                                 exposure for siemens associated with these risks and thus
      well as from the heads of corporate units, which then forms                                       ­provides an indication of the risks’ current importance to us.
      the basis for the evaluation of the company-wide risk and op-                                      ­nevertheless, risks currently considered to entail a lower risk
      portunity situation. the cric reports to and supports the man-                                      exposure could potentially result in a higher negative impact
      aging board on matters relating to the implementation, opera-                                       on siemens than risks currently considered to entail a higher
      tion and oversight of the risk and internal control system and                                      risk exposure. additional risks not known to us or that we cur-
      assists the managing board in reporting to the audit commit-                                        rently consider immaterial may also negatively impact our busi-
      tee of the supervisory board. the cric is composed of the chief                                     ness operations. unless otherwise stated, the risks described
      risk & internal control officer, as the chairperson, and mem-                                       below relate to all of our segments.
      bers of senior management such as the sector and sfs ceos,
      the cfo of siemens, and selected heads of corporate units.




      108   a.     to our shareholders                                   131    b.   corporate ­governance                         171    c.    combined ­management report
230
                                                                                                                                   172    c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                                   187    c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                                   193    c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                                   205    c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                                   210    c.5   net assets position

c.9.3.1 strategic risks                                                                     a renewed crisis in financial and credit markets, a renewed
we operate in highly competitive markets, which are sub-                                    banking crisis in europe, a hard landing of the chinese econ-
ject to price pressures and rapid changes: the worldwide                                    omy, a supra-regional spread of the ebola epidemic, fluctuating
markets for our products and solutions are highly competitive                               commodity prices, bankruptcies, natural disasters, political
in terms of pricing, product and service quality, product devel-                            ­crises including further independence debates, social unrest
opment and introduction time, customer service and financ-                                   and other challenges.
ing terms. in many of our businesses, we face downward price
pressure and we are or could be exposed to market downturns                                 in general, due to the significant proportion of long-cycle busi-
or slower growth, which may increase in times of declining                                  nesses in our former sectors and the importance of long-term
investment activities and consumer demand. we face strong                                   contracts for siemens, there is usually a time lag between the
competitors, some of which are larger and may have greater                                  development of macroeconomic conditions and their impact on
resources in a given business area, and also competitors from                               our financial results. important exceptions include our short-­
emerging markets, which may have a better cost structure.                                   cycle businesses in the former industry sector, particularly
some industries in which we operate are undergoing con­                                     those in the former industry automation division and parts of
solidation, which may result in stronger competition and a                                  the former drive technologies division as well as parts of the
change in our relative ­market position. certain competitors                                former power grid solutions & products business within the for-
may be more effective and faster in capturing available market                              mer infrastructure & cities sector, which are highly sensitive to
opportunities, such as through heavy investments or new                                     volatility in market demand. if the moderate recovery of macro-
­entrance of it companies into emerging service fields (e.g.                                economic growth stalls again and if we are not successful in
 data-­driven services). these factors alone or in combination                              adapting our production and cost structure to subsequent
 may negatively impact our business, financial condition, and                               changes to conditions in the markets in which we operate,
 ­results of operations.                                                                    there can be no assurance that we will not experience adverse
                                                                                            effects (e.g. underutilization of manufacturing and engineer-
furthermore, we see a risk that suppliers (and to some extent                               ing capacities) that may be material to our business, financial
even smaller customers), especially from emerging countries                                 condition and results of operations. for example, it may be-
(e.g. china), could develop into serious competitors for                                    come more difficult for our customers to obtain financing and
siemens resulting in even more competition and thus in re-                                  as a result they may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase
duced volume, loss of market share, and / or lower profit margin.                           our products and services or to follow through on purchases or
                                                                                            contracts already executed. furthermore, prices may decline as
our business, financial condition and results of operations                                 a result of adverse market conditions to a greater extent than
may be affected by the uncertainties of economic and polit-                                 currently anticipated. in addition, contracted payment terms,
ical conditions, particularly in the current macroeconomic                                  especially regarding the level of advance payments by our cus-
environment, which is characterized by a high degree of un-                                 tomers relating to long-term projects, may become less favor-
certainty and modest recovery as well as the continuing risk                                able, which could negatively impact our cash flows. addition-
of resurgence of crisis in financial markets and/or renewed                                 ally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient
global economic downturn: our business environment is in-                                   revenue or securing access to the capital markets, they may not
fluenced by both domestic and global demand, which in turn is                               be able to pay, or may delay payment of, the amounts they owe
influenced by economic conditions. these conditions and, in                                 us, which may adversely affect our business, financial condi-
consequence, the speed of economic growth and the sustain-                                  tion and results of operations.
ability of our market environment are dependent upon the evo-
lution of a number of global and local factors. we still see a                              numerous other headwinds continue to constrain the world
high level of uncertainty regarding the global economic out-                                economy, such as the increasing popular support for anti-eu and
look, primarily as a result of the anemic economic recovery in                              anti-business parties, ongoing high public debt, and significant
the euro zone, sluggish growth in various emerging countries,                               fluctuations in exchange rates, energy prices and raw material
and ongoing geopolitical tensions. the main downside risks                                  prices. these and other factors could impact macroeconomic
stem from these political tensions. a severe escalation of the                              ­parameters and the international capital and credit markets, and
conflict in eastern europe would strongly affect the european                                the resulting uncertainty could have an adverse impact on our
and world economy and lead to a steep decline in investment                                  business, financial condition and results of operations.
activity. similarly, an escalation of the conflicts in the middle
east could disrupt global oil markets and hit the global econ-                              our business is affected by a variety of market conditions and
omy. additional risks for our market environment include such                               regulations. for example, our former energy sector is exposed
possibilities as a prolonged decline in investment sentiment,                               to the development of global demand for energy and strongly




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    231
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      affected by regulations and policies related to energy and the                ­ dequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our
                                                                                    a
      environment. healthcare is dependent on policy development                    technology. furthermore, in some of our markets, the need to
      and regulations affecting healthcare systems around the world,                ­develop and introduce new products rapidly in order to cap-
      particularly in the important u.s. healthcare market. our for-                 ture available opportunities may lead to quality problems. our
      mer industry sector is vulnerable to unfavorable market condi-                 operating results depend to a significant extent on our ability
      tions in certain segments of the automotive and manufac­                       to anticipate and adapt to changes in our markets and to
      turing industries. our former infrastructure & cities sector                   ­reduce the costs of producing high-quality products. among
      focuses, among other things, on business with public authori-                   recent technology trends, we are carefully evaluating the
      ties around the world and is thus vulnerable to restrictions in                 ­potential and relevance of digitalization. we believe that the
      public budgets.                                                                  potential and usage scenarios of this technology vary among
                                                                                       our products, solutions and services depending on the degree
      our business, financial condition and results of operations                      of information technology utilized. however, we also believe
      may be adversely affected by continued strategic alignments                      that this trend needs to be monitored closely, because it might
      ­and cost-cutting initiatives: we are in a continuous p   ­ rocess of            bear the potential to change the competitive landscape. any
       strategic alignments and constantly engage in cost-cutting                      inability to adapt to the aforementioned factors could have an
       ­initiatives, including ongoing capacity adjustment measures                    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
        and structural initiatives. capacity adjustments through                       of operations.
        ­consolidation of business activities and manufacturing facili-
         ties, and the streamlining of product portfolios are also part of          our business, financial condition and results of operations
         these cost reduction efforts. these measures may not be imple-             may be adversely affected by portfolio measures: our strat-
         mented as planned, may turn out to be less effective than an-              egy includes divesting activities in some business areas and
         ticipated, may become effective later than estimated or may                strengthening others through portfolio measures, including
         not become effective at all. each of these factors alone or in             mergers and acquisitions.
         combination may negatively impact our business, financial
         condition, and results of operations. any future contribution of           with respect to divestments, we may not be able to divest some
         these measures to our profitability will be influenced by the              of our activities as planned, and the divestitures we do carry
         ­actual savings achieved and by our ability to sustain them.               out could have a negative impact on our business, financial
                                                                                    condition, results of operations and our reputation. as a major
      our businesses must keep pace with technological                              divestment, we agreed that bosch will acquire siemens’ stake
      changes and develop new products and services to remain                       in bsh bosch und siemens hausgeräte gmbh.
      competitive: the markets in which our businesses operate ex-
      perience rapid and significant changes due to the introduction                mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky because of diffi-
      of innovative technologies. to meet our customers’ needs, we                  culties that may arise when integrating people, operations,
      must continuously design new products and services and up-                    technologies and products. there can be no assurance that any
      date existing ones, while investing in and developing new                     of the businesses we acquire can be integrated successfully and
      technologies. introducing new products and technologies                       as timely as originally planned, or that they will perform as
      ­requires a significant commitment to research and develop-                   ­anticipated once integrated. in addition, we may incur signifi-
        ment, which in return requires expenditure of considerable                   cant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection
       financial resources that may not always result in success. our                with these transactions, including costs related to integration
       sales and profitability may suffer if we invest in technologies               of acquired businesses. for example, in september 2014, we
       that do not operate or may not be integrated as expected, or                  ­entered into an agreement with dresser-rand to acquire all of
       that are not accepted in the market place as anticipated, or if                its issued and outstanding common shares by way of a friendly
       our products or systems are not introduced to the market in a                  takeover bid. at the beginning of may 2014, we announced the
       timely manner, particularly compared to our competitors, or                    acquisition of the rolls-royce energy aero-derivative gas
       become obsolete. we constantly apply for new patents and                       ­turbine and compressor business of rolls-royce plc, u.k. (rolls-
       ­actively manage our intellectual property portfolio to secure                  royce). furthermore, portfolio measures may result in addi-
        our technological position. however, our patents and other                     tional financing needs and adversely affect our financial
        intellectual property may not prevent competitors from inde-                   leverage and our debt-to-equity ratio. acquisitions may also
        pendently developing or selling products and services that are                 lead to substantial increases in intangible assets, including
        similar to or duplicates of ours. there can be no assurance that               goodwill. our statements of financial position reflect a signifi-
        the resources we invest to protect our intellectual property                   cant amount of intangible assets, including goodwill. among
        will be sufficient or that our intellectual property portfolio will            our businesses, the largest amount of goodwill is allocated to




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.    combined ­management report
232
                                                                                                           172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                           187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                           193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                           205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                           210   c.5   net assets position

the former diagnostics division and the former imaging &                                    disclosures on sourcing and usage of the regulated raw materi-
­therapy systems division of healthcare, and the former indus-                              als. in particular, there is u.s. legislation concerning the sourc-
 try automation division of the former industry sector. if we                               ing of “conflict minerals” from mines located in the conflict
 were to encounter continuing adverse business developments                                 zones of the democratic republic of congo (drc) and its
 including negative effects on our revenues, profits or cash, or                            ­adjoining countries. this u.s. legislation requires manufactur-
 adverse effects from an increase in the weighted average cost of                            ers listed on u.s. stock exchanges to investigate and disclose
 capital (wacc) or from foreign exchange rate developments, or                               their use of any conflict minerals originating in the drc or ad-
 if we were otherwise to perform worse than expected at acqui-                               joining countries. many of our customers fall into this category.
 sition activities, then these intangible assets, including good-                            if their (sub-)suppliers do not provide them with requested in-
 will, might have to be written off, which could adversely affect                            formation and do not take other steps to ensure that no such
 our business, financial condition and results of operations. the                            conflict minerals are included in minerals or components sup-
 likelihood of such adverse business developments increases in                               plied to them, they may be forced to disclose information about
 times of difficult or uncertain macroeconomic conditions.                                   the use of conflict minerals in their supply chain in filings with
                                                                                             the sec. thus, our customers pass on these transparency obli-
our business, financial condition and results of operations                                  gations within their supply chain in which we are also involved.
may be adversely affected by our equity interests, other                                     we exercise our duty within the supply chain, as our customers
­investments and strategic alliances: our strategy includes                                  request transparency in the supply chain and as the obligation
 strengthening our business interests through joint ventures,                                to do so already forms an element of customer contracts. if we
 associated c­ ompanies and strategic alliances. certain of our                              are unable to achieve sufficient confidence throughout our
 ­investments, particularly in our former segment equity invest-                             supply chain, or if any of these risks or similar risks associated
  ments, are accounted for using the equity method, including,                               with these kinds of regulations, laws and policies were to
  among others, unify (formerly en) and, after contractual clos-                             ­materialize, our business, financial condition, results of opera-
  ing of the transaction, our metals technologies joint venture                               tions and reputation could be adversely affected.
  with mitsubishi heavy industries. furthermore, we hold other
  investments, for example atos se and osram licht ag. any                                  c.9.3.2 operational risks
  factors negatively influencing the profitability of our equity and                        our business, financial condition and results of operations
  other investments, including negative effects on revenues,                                may be adversely affected by cost overruns or additional
  profits or cash, could have an adverse effect on our equity                               payment obligations related to the management of our
  pick-up related to these equity interests or may result in a write-                       long-term, fixed-price or turnkey projects: we perform a por-
  off of these investments. in addition, our business, financial                            tion of our business, especially large projects, under long-term
  condition and results of operations could also be adversely                               contracts that are awarded on a competitive bidding basis.
  ­affected in connection with loans, guarantees or non-compli-                             some of these contracts are inherently risky because we may
   ance with financial covenants related to these equity and other                          assume substantially all of the risks associated with complet-
   investments. furthermore, such investments are inherently                                ing a project and the post-completion warranty obligations. for
   risky as we may not be able to sufficiently influence corporate                          example, we face the risk that we must satisfy technical re-
   governance processes or business decisions taken by our                                  quirements of a project even though we may not have gained
   ­equity investments, other investments and strategic alliances                           experience with those requirements before we win the project.
    that may have a negative effect on our business. in addition,                           the profit margins realized on fixed-priced contracts may vary
    joint ventures bear the risk of difficulties that may arise when                        from original estimates as a result of changes in costs and pro-
    integrating people, operations, technologies and products.                              ductivity over their term. we sometimes bear the risk of unan-
    strategic alliances may also pose risks for us because we com-                          ticipated project modifications, shortage of key personnel,
    pete in some business areas with companies with which we                                quality problems, financial difficulties of our customers, cost
    have strategic alliances.                                                               overruns or contractual penalties caused by unexpected tech-
                                                                                            nological problems, unforeseen developments at the project
we are subject to changes of regulations, laws and policies                                 sites, unforeseen changes or difficulties in the regulatory or
concerning our products: as a diversified company with global                               political environment, performance problems with our suppli-
businesses we are exposed to various product-related regula-                                ers, subcontractors and consortium partners or other logistical
tions, laws and policies influencing our processes. recently,                               difficulties. certain of our multi-year contracts also contain
­some jurisdictions around the world have adopted certain reg-                              demanding installation and maintenance requirements in
                                                                                            ­
 ulations, laws and policies requiring us to extend our recycling                           ­addition to other performance criteria relating to timing, unit
 efforts, limit the sourcing and usage of certain raw materials,                             cost and compliance with government regulations require-
 and request that suppliers provide additional due diligence and                             ments, which, if not satisfied, could subject us to substantial




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    233
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      c­ ontractual penalties, damages, non-payment and contract ter-              furthermore, failures on the part of service providers we
       mination. there can be no assurance that contracts and proj-                ­employ, such as in the area of it, may have an adverse effect on
       ects, in particular those with long-term duration and fixed-                 our processes and operations and our ability to meet our com-
       price ­calculation, can be completed profitably.                             mitments to customers or increase our operating costs. any
                                                                                    operational failures or quality issues could have an adverse
      increased it security threats and higher levels of profes-                    ­effect on our business, financial condition, results of opera-
      sionalism in computer crime could pose a risk to our                           tions and reputation.
      ­systems, networks, products, solutions and services as well
       as to those of our service providers: our business portfolio                we are dependent upon hiring, developing and retaining
       includes a broad array of systems, networks, products, solu-                highly qualified management and technical personnel:
       tions and services across our businesses that rely on digital               competition for highly qualified personnel remains intense
       technologies. we observe a global increase in it security                   in the industries and regions in which our businesses operate.
       threats and higher levels of professionalism in computer crime,             in many of our business areas, we intend to expand our busi-
       which pose a risk to the security of systems and networks and               ness activities, for which we will need highly skilled employ-
       the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data. we attempt         ees. our future success depends in part on our continued abil-
       ­to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures,                 ity to hire, integrate, develop and retain engineers and other
        including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of                   qualified personnel. we address this risk with various measures,
        our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and                    ­for example succession planning, employer branding, retention
        ­protective systems such as firewalls and virus scanners. to the            and career management. however, there can be no assurance
         extent we employ service providers, such as in the area of it              that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retain-
         infrastructure, we have contractual arrangements in place in               ing all the highly qualified employees and key personnel needed
         order to ensure that these risks are reduced in a similar man-             in the future, including in appropriate geographic locations, and
         ner. nonetheless, our systems, networks, products, solutions               any inability to do so could have an adverse effect on our busi-
         and services, as well as those of our service providers remain             ness, financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
         potentially vulnerable to attacks. depending on their nature
         and scope, such attacks could potentially lead to the leakage of          we may face interruption of our supply chain, including the
         confidential information, improper use of our systems and net-            inability of third parties to deliver parts, components and
         works, manipulation and destruction of data, defective prod-              services on time and in the contractually agreed quality,
         ucts, production downtimes and supply shortages, which in                 and we may be subject to rising raw material prices: our
         turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition,            ­financial performance depends in part on reliable and effective
         results of operations and reputation.                                      supply chain management for components, sub-assemblies
                                                                                    and other materials. capacity constraints and supply shortages
      we may face operational failures and quality problems in                      resulting from ineffective supply chain management may lead
      our value chain processes: our value chain comprises all                      to delays and additional cost. we rely on third parties to supply
      steps, from research and development to supply chain manage-                  us with parts, components and services. using third parties to
      ment, production, marketing, sales and services. operational                  manufacture, assemble and test our products reduces our con-
      failures in our value chain processes could result in quality                 trol over manufacturing yields, quality assurance, product
      problems or potential product, labor safety, regulatory or envi-              ­delivery schedules and costs. the third parties that supply us
      ronmental risks. such risks are particularly present in our                    with parts and components also have other customers and may
      ­former sectors in relation to our production and construction                 not have sufficient capacity to meet all of their customers’
       facilities, which are located all over the world and have a high              needs, including ours, during ­periods of excess demand. com-
       degree of organizational and technological complexity. from                   ponent supply delays can affect the performance of our former
       time to time, some of the products we sell might have quality                 sectors. although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid
       issues resulting from the design or manufacture of such prod-                 supply-related problems, there can be no assurance that we
       ucts or from the software integrated into them. our healthcare                will not encounter supply problems in the future or that we will
       business, for example, is subject to regulatory authorities                   be able to replace a supplier that is not able to meet our
       ­including the u.s. food and drug administration and the euro-                ­demand. this risk is particularly evident in businesses with a
        pean commission’s health and consumer policy department,                      very limited number of suppliers. shortages and delays could
        which require us to make certain efforts to safeguard our prod-               materially harm our business. unanticipated increases in the
        uct quality. if we are not able to comply with these require-                 price of components or raw materials due to market shortages
        ments, our business, financial condition, results of operations               or other reasons could also adversely affect the performance of
        and reputation may be adversely affected.                                     our former sectors. furthermore, we may be exposed to the




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
234
                                                                                                         172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                         187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                         193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                         205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                         210   c.5   net assets position

risk of delays and interruptions of the supply chain as a conse-                            share price fluctuations may lead to higher volatility and
quence of natural disasters in case we are unable to identify                               ­adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results
alternative sources of supply or ways of transportation in                                   of operations.
a timely manner or at all. a general shortage of materials, com-
ponents or sub-components as a result of natural disasters also                             we are exposed to volatile credit spreads: regarding our
bears the risk of unforeseeable fluctuations in prices and                                  ­corporate treasury activities, widening credit spreads due to
­demand, which might adversely affect our business, financial                                uncertainty and risk aversion in the financial markets might
 condition and results of operations.                                                        lead to adverse changes of fair market values of our financial
                                                                                             assets, in particular concerning our derivative financial instru-
our former sectors purchase raw materials including so-called                                ments. in addition, widening credit spreads could lead to
rare-earth metals, copper, steel, aluminum and oil, which ex-                                ­increasing refinancing costs if the euro zone sovereign debt
pose them to fluctuations in energy and raw material prices. in                               ­crisis with its ongoing significant impact on global financial
recent times, commodities prices have been subject to volatile                                 markets and the european financial sector in particular, contin-
markets, and such volatility is expected to continue. if we are                                ues or even ­worsens. any such development could also further
not able to compensate for our increased costs or pass them on                                 ­increase the costs for buying protection against credit risks due
to customers, price increases could have an adverse impact on                                   to a potential increase of counterparty risks.
our business, financial condition and results of operations. in
contrast, in times of falling commodity prices, we may not fully                            our future financing via corporate treasury may particu-
profit from such price decreases as we attempt to reduce the                                larly be affected by the uncertainty of economic condi-
risk of rising commodity prices by several means, such as long-                             tions and the developments of capital and financial mar-
term contracting or physical and financial hedging. in addition                             kets: our corporate treasury is responsible for the financing
to price pressure that we may face from our customers expect-                               of the company. negative developments in foreign exchange,
ing to benefit from falling commodity prices or adverse market                              money or capital markets, such as limited availability of funds
conditions, this could also adversely affect our business, finan-                           (particularly u.s. dollar funds), may increase our overall cost
cial condition and results of operations.                                                   of funding. the ongoing euro zone sovereign debt crisis con-
                                                                                            tinues to have an impact on global capital markets. the result-
c.9.3.3 financial risks                                                                     ing higher risk awareness of governments led to more regula-
we are exposed to market price risks: we are exposed to fluc-                               tions on the use of financial instruments through (1) the
tuations in exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar                              regulation on otc derivatives, central counterparties and
and the euro, because a high percentage of our business                                     trade repositories (european market infrastructure regula-
­volume is conducted in the u.s. and as exports from europe. in                             tion) and (2) other similar regulations in other jurisdictions,
 addition, we are exposed to currency effects involving the                                 which may have an impact on the future availability or the
 currencies of emerging markets, in particular the chinese
 ­                                                                                          costs of adequate hedging instruments for the company.
 yuan. a strengthening of the euro (particularly against the u.s.                           it may even lead to further regulations of the financial sector
 dollar) may change our competitive position, as many of our                                as well as to the use of financial instruments that could
 competitors may benefit from having a substantial portion of                               ­adversely influence our future possibilities of obtaining debt
 their costs based in weaker currencies, enabling them to offer                              financing, and / or may increase our r­ efinancing costs. deterio-
 their products at lower prices. as a result, a strong euro in rela-                         rating credit quality or even default of business partners may
 tion to the u.s. dollar and other currencies could have an                                  adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
 ­adverse impact on our revenues and results of operations.                                  of operations.
  ­certain currency risks as well as interest rate risks are hedged
   using derivative financial instruments. depending on the                                 downgrades of our rating could increase our cost of capital
   ­development of foreign currency exchange and interest rates,                            and therefore could negatively affect our business: our
    our hedging activities could have significant effects on our                            business, financial condition and results of operations are influ-
    business, financial condition and results of operations.                                enced significantly by the actual and expected performance of
    changes in the fair value of warrants issued together with                              the former sectors and sfs, as well as our portfolio measures.
    us$ 3 billion bonds in fiscal 2012 depends mainly on the under­                         an actual or expected negative development of our business,
    lying siemens and osram share prices as well as their respec-                           financial condition or results of operations could result in the
    tive volatilities, irrespective of the fact that our potential                          deterioration of our credit rating. downgrades by rating agen-
    ­obligation related to the warrant writer position to physically                        cies could increase our cost of capital, may reduce our potential
     deliver siemens and osram shares could be covered out of                               investor base and may negatively affect our business, financial
     existing stock. accordingly, exchange rate, interest rate and                          condition and results of operations.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    235
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      our financing activities subject us to various risks, includ-                 guarantees customary for the business are procured from banks,
      ing credit, interest rate and foreign exchange risk: we pro-                  such as down-payment or warranty bonds, as part of the order.
      vide our customers with various forms of direct and indirect                  sometimes customers may also set minimum requirements as
      ­financing in connection with large projects. we also finance a               to the creditworthiness of acceptable guarantors. accordingly,
       large number of customer orders, for example, the leasing of                 situations may arise with respect to existing orders that, during
       medical equipment, mainly through sfs. sfs also bears credit                 the order’s execution phase, customers request the provision of
       risk by financing third-party equipment or by taking direct or               alternative security upon the deterioration of a guaranteeing
       indirect participation in financings, such as syndicated loans.              bank’s creditworthiness.
       in part, we take a security interest in the assets we finance or
       we receive additional collateral. our business, financial condi-             examinations by tax authorities and changes in tax regula-
       tion and results of operations may be adversely affected if the              tions could adversely affect our business, financial condi-
       credit quality of our customers deteriorates or if they default on           tion and results of operations: we operate in nearly all coun-
       their payment obligation to us, if the value of the assets in                tries of the world and therefore are subject to many different tax
       which we have taken a security interest or additional collateral             regulations. changes in tax law in any of these jurisdictions
       declines, if interest rates or foreign exchange rates fluctuate, or          could result in higher tax expense and payments. furthermore,
       if the projects in which we invest are unsuccessful. potential               legislative changes could impact our tax receivables and liabil-
       adverse changes in economic conditions could cause a decline                 ities as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. in
       in the fair market values of assets, derivative instruments as               addition, the uncertain tax environment in some regions could
       well as collateral, resulting in losses which could have an                  limit our ability to enforce our rights. as a globally operating
       ­adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results             ­organization, we conduct business in countries subject to com-
        of operations.                                                               plex tax rules, which may be interpreted in different ways. future
                                                                                     interpretations or developments of tax regimes may affect our
      our business, financial condition and results of operations                    business, financial condition and results of operations. we are
      may be adversely affected by several parameters influenc-                      regularly examined by tax authorities in various jurisdictions.
      ing the funded status of our pension benefit plans: the
      funded status of our pension plans may be affected by an                      for further information on derivative financial instruments,
      ­increase or decrease in the defined benefit obligation (dbo), as             hedging activities and financial risk management, see       note

       well as by an increase or decrease in the value of plan assets.              30 and 31 in   d.6 notes to consolidated ­f inancial statements .

       a significant increase in the underfunding may have a negative
       effect on our rating. pensions are accounted for in accordance               c.9.3.4 compliance risks
       with actuarial valuations, which rely on statistical and other               we are subject to regulatory risks associated with our inter-
       factors in order to anticipate future events. these factors                  national operations: protectionist trade policies and changes
       ­include key pension plan valuation assumptions such as the                  in the political and regulatory environment in the markets in
        discount rate, rate of future compensation increases and                    which we operate, such as import and export controls, tariffs
        ­pension progression. actual developments may differ from                   and other trade barriers including debarment from certain mar-
         ­assumptions due to changing market and economic conditions,               kets and price or exchange controls, could affect our business
          thereby resulting in an increase or decrease in the dbo. signif-          in several national markets, impact our sales and profitability
          icant movements in financial markets or a change in the port-             and make the repatriation of profits difficult, and may expose
          folio mix of invested assets could result in corresponding                us to penalties, sanctions and reputational damage. in addi-
          ­increases or decreases in the value of plan assets, particularly         tion, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions
           equity securities. also, changes in pension plan assumptions             could limit our ability to enforce our rights and subject us to
           could affect defined benefit costs. for example, a change in dis-        continually increasing costs related to designing and imple-
           count rates may result in changes in the defined benefit costs           menting appropriate compliance programs and protocols.
           in the following fiscal year. in order to comply with local pen-
           sion regulations in selected foreign countries, we may face a            as a globally operating organization, we conduct business with
           risk of increasing cash outflows to reduce an underfunding of            customers in countries, such as iran, syria, cuba and countries
           our pension plans in these countries, if any.                            in eastern europe, that are subject to export control regulations,
                                                                                    embargoes, economic sanctions or other forms of trade restric-
      with respect to sales-related bank guarantees to be issued                    tions imposed by the u.s., the european union or other coun-
      in the course of orders or supplies, we are exposed to cer-                   tries or organizations. new or expanded export control regu­
      tain risks arising from our banks’ rating and its develop-                    lations, economic sanctions, embargoes or other forms of
      ment: frequently customers request from the supplier that                     trade restrictions imposed on iran, syria or on other sanctioned




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.    combined ­management report
236
                                                                                                           172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                           187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                           193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                           205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                           210   c.5   net assets position

c­ ountries in which we do business may result in a curtailment                             ­ iolations and other illegal acts, such activities may impair our
                                                                                            v
 of our existing business in such countries or indirectly in other                          ability to do business with these or other organizations. cor-
 countries and in amendments to our policies. we are also aware                             ruption, antitrust and related proceedings may lead to criminal
 of initiatives by institutional investors, such as pension funds or                        and civil fines as well as penalties, sanctions, injunctions
 other companies, to adopt or consider adopting policies prohib-                            against future conduct, profit disgorgements, disqualifications
 iting investment in and transactions with, or requiring divest-                            from directly and indirectly engaging in certain types of busi-
 ment of interests in entities doing business with, iran and other                          ness, the loss of business licenses or permits or other restric-
 countries identified as state sponsors of terrorism by the u.s.                            tions. accordingly, we may be required to record material pro-
 secretary of state. it is possible that such initiatives may result                        visions to cover potential liabilities arising in connection with
 in us being unable to gain or retain investors, customers or sup-                          such investigations and proceedings, including potential tax
 pliers. in addition, the termination of our activities in sanctioned                       penalties. moreover, any findings related to public corruption
 countries may expose us to customer claims and other actions.                              that are not covered by the 2008 and 2009 corruption charge
 our reputation could also suffer due to our activities with coun-                          settlements, which were concluded with american and german
 terparties in or affiliated with these countries. as previously                            authorities, may endanger our business with government
                                                                                            ­
 ­disclosed, siemens has decided that, subject to certain limited                           agencies and intergovernmental and supranational organiza-
  exceptions, it will not enter into new contracts with customers                           tions, further monitors could be appointed to review future
  in iran and has issued group-wide policies establishing the                               business practices and we may otherwise be required to further
  ­details of its general decision.                                                         modify our business practices and our compliance program.

we expect that sales to emerging markets will account for an                                our involvement in ongoing and potential future corruption or
increasing portion of our total revenue, as our business natu-                              antitrust proceedings could damage our reputation and have
rally evolves and as developing nations and regions around the                              an adverse impact on our ability to compete for business from
world increase their demand for our offering. emerging market                               public and private sector customers around the world. if we or
operations involve various risks, including civil unrest, health                            our subsidiaries are found to have engaged in certain illegal
concerns, cultural differences such as employment and busi-                                 acts or not to have taken effective steps to address allegations
ness practices, volatility in gross domestic product, economic                              or findings of corruption or antitrust violations in our business,
and governmental instability, the potential for nationalization                             this may impair our ability to participate in business with gov-
of private assets and the imposition of exchange controls. the                              ernments or intergovernmental organizations and may result
asian markets, in particular, are important for our long-term                               in our formal exclusion from such business. even if we are not
growth strategy, and our sizeable operations in china are influ-                            formally excluded from participating in government business,
enced by a legal system that is still developing and is subject                             government agencies or intergovernmental or supranational
to change. our growth strategy could be limited by govern-                                  organizations may informally exclude us from tendering for or
ments supporting local industries. our former sectors, partic-                              participating in certain contracts. for example, legislation of
ularly those that derive their revenue from large projects,                                 member states of the european union could in certain cases
could be adversely affected if future demand, prices and gross                              result in our mandatory or discretionary exclusion from public
domestic product in the markets in which those former sectors                               contracts in case of a conviction for bribery and certain other
operate do not develop as favorably as expected due to such                                 offences or for other reasons. as described in more detail in
regulatory measures. if any of these risks or similar risks asso-                              note 28 in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements ,

ciated with our international operations were to materialize,                               we and certain of our subsidiaries have in the past been ex-
our business, financial condition and results of operations                                 cluded or currently are excluded from some contracting, in-
could be adversely affected.                                                                cluding with governments, development banks and multilat-
                                                                                            eral financial institutions, as a result of findings of corruption
current and future investigations regarding allegations of                                  or other misconduct. ongoing or potential future investiga-
public corruption, antitrust violations and other illegal acts                              tions into allegations of corruption or antitrust violations could
could have an adverse effect on our business, financial                                     also impair existing relationships with, and our ability to ac-
condition and results of operations and on our reputation:                                  quire new private sector business partners. for instance, such
we engage in a substantial amount of business with govern-                                  investigations may adversely affect our ability to pursue poten-
ments and government-owned enterprises around the world.                                    tially important strategic projects and transactions, such as
we also participate in a number of projects funded by govern-                               strategic alliances, joint ventures or other business combina-
ment agencies and intergovernmental and supranational orga-                                 tions, or could result in the cancellation of certain of our exist-
nizations such as multilateral development banks. if we are                                 ing contracts and third parties, including our competitors,
found to have been engaged in public corruption, antitrust                                  could initiate significant third-party litigation.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    237
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      in addition, future developments in ongoing and potential                   s­ervices, product liability, product defects, quality problems,
      ­future investigations, such as responding to the requests of                ­intellectual property infringement, non-compliance with tax reg-
       governmental authorities and cooperating with them, could                    ulations and/or alleged or suspected violations of applicable
       divert management’s attention and resources from other issues                laws. in addition, we may face further claims in connection with
       facing our business. the materialization of any of these risks               the circumstances that led to the corruption charges. for addi-
       could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condi-               tional information with respect to specific proceedings, see
       tion and results of operations and on our reputation.                            note 28 in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .

                                                                                    there can be no assurance that the results of these or any other
      we are subject to environmental and other governmental                        proceedings will not materially harm our business, financial con-
      regulations: some of the industries in which we operate are                   dition and results of operations. moreover, even if we ultimately
      highly regulated. current and future environmental and other                  prevail on the merits in any such proceedings, we may have to
      governmental regulations or changes thereto may require us                    incur substantial legal fees and other costs defending ourselves
      to change the way we run our operations and could result in                   against the underlying allegations. under certain c­ ircumstances
      ­significant increases in our operating or production costs. in               we record a provision for risks arising from legal disputes and
       addition, while we have procedures in place to ensure compli-                proceedings. in addition, we maintain liability i­nsurance for cer-
       ance with applicable governmental regulations in the conduct                 tain legal risks at levels our management b­ elieves are appropriate
       of our business operations, it cannot be excluded that viola-                and consistent with industry practice. our insurance policy, how-
       tions of applicable governmental regulations may be caused                   ever, does not protect us against reputational damage. moreover,
       either by us or by third parties that we contract with, including            we may incur losses relating to legal proceedings beyond the lim-
       suppliers or service providers, whose activities may be at-                  its, or outside the coverage, of such insurance or exceeding any
       tributed to us. any such violations expose us to the risk of lia-            provisions made for legal proceedings related losses. ­finally,
       bility, reputational damage or loss of licenses or permits that              there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain ade-
       are important to our business operations. in particular, we                  quate insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms in
       could also face liability for damage or remediation for environ-             the future. each of these risks may have an adverse effect on
       mental contamination at the facilities we design or operate. for             our business, financial condition and results of operations.
       example, we are required to bear environmental clean-up costs
       mainly related to remediation and environmental protection                 c.9.3.5 assessment of the overall
       ­liabilities, which have been accrued based on the estimated               risk situation
        costs of decommissioning facilities for the production of ura-            the most significant challenges have been mentioned first in
        nium and mixed-oxide fuel elements in hanau, germany, as well             each of the four categories strategic, operations, financial and
        as a nuclear research and service center in karlstein, germany.           compliance with the risks caused by highly competitive mar-
        for further information, see
        ­                                   note 23 in     d.6 notes to           kets currently being our most significant. even though the as-
        c onsolidated financial statements . under certain circum-
        ­                                                                         sessments of individual risk exposures have changed during
        stances, we establish provisions for environmental risks. with            fiscal 2014 due to developments in the external environment as
        regard to certain environmental risks, we maintain liability in-          well as the effects of our own mitigation measures, the overall
        surance at levels that our management believes are appropri-              risk situation for siemens did not change significantly as com-
        ate and consistent with industry practice. we may incur envi-             pared to the prior year. at present, no risks have been identified
        ronmental losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of           that either individually or in combination could endanger our
        such insurance, and such losses may have an adverse effect on             ability to continue as a going concern. we are confident that we
        our business, financial condition and results of our operations.          can continue to successfully counter the challenges arising
        in addition, our provisions for environmental liabilities may             from the risks mentioned above.
        not be sufficient to cover our ultimate losses or expenditures
        resulting therefrom.
                                                                                  c.9.4 opportunities
      our business, financial condition and results of operations
      could suffer as a result of current or future litigation: we are            within our comprehensive, interactive and management-ori-
      subject to numerous risks relating to legal, governmental and               ented enterprise risk management (erm) approach that is inte-
      regulatory proceedings to which we are currently a party or to              grated into the organization and that addresses both risks and
      which we may become a party in the future. we routinely be-                 opportunities, we regularly identify, evaluate and respond to
      come subject to legal, governmental and regulatory investiga-               opportunities that present themselves in our various fields of
      tions and proceedings involving, among other things, requests               activity. below we describe our most significant opportunities.
      for arbitration, allegations of improper delivery of goods or               unless otherwise stated, the opportunities described below




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.    combined ­management report
238
                                                                                                         172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                         187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                         193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                         205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                         210   c.5   net assets position

r­ elate to all of our segments. the order in which the opportuni-                          f­ urther smart products to our portfolio and developing stron-
 ties are presented reflects the currently estimated relative ex-                            ger sales channels would enable us to increase our revenues by
 posure for siemens associated with these opportunities and                                  serving large and fast-growing geographic markets, where cus-
 thus provides an indication of the opportunities’ current impor-                            tomers making a purchase decision may consider price more
 tance to us. nevertheless, opportunities currently considered                               strongly than product features without compromising on prod-
 to entail a lower opportunity exposure could potentially result                             uct quality and reliability.
 in a higher positive impact on siemens than opportunities cur-
 rently considered to entail a higher opportunity exposure. the                             through selective acquisitions, equity investments and
 described opportunities are necessarily not the only ones we                               partnerships we constantly strive to strengthen our lead-
 encounter. in addition, our assessment of opportunities is sub-                            ing technology position, open up additional potential mar-
 ject to change as our company, our markets and technologies                                kets and further develop our product portfolio: we con-
 are constantly developing. as a consequence, new opportuni-                                stantly monitor our current and future markets for opportunities
 ties may arise, existing opportunities may cease to be relevant,                           for strategic acquisitions, equity investments or partnerships to
 or the significance of an opportunity may change. generally,                               complement organic growth. such activities could help us to
 opportunities are assessed to the best of our knowledge, con-                              strengthen our market position in our existing markets, provide
 sidering certain assumptions, including market development,                                access to new markets or complement our technological port-
 market potential of technologies or solutions, and anticipated                             folio in selected areas.
 developments in customer demand or prices, among other
 things. when opportunities materialize, they may have a lower                              localizing value chain activities in low-cost countries could
 effect than previously estimated on the basis of the underlying                            further improve our cost position: localizing certain value
 assumptions. it is also possible that opportunities we see today                           chain activities, such as procurement, manufacturing, mainte-
 will never materialize.                                                                    nance and service in markets such as the bric countries, other
                                                                                            emerging markets, and the middle east could enable us to re-
in our view, the overall opportunity situation did not change                               duce costs and strengthen our global competitive position, in
significantly as compared to the prior year.                                                particular compared to competitors based in countries with a
                                                                                            more favorable cost structure.
we constantly strive to develop new technologies, offer new
products, solutions and services, and improve existing ones:                                we are in the process of continuously developing and im-
we invest in new technologies that we expect will meet future                               plementing initiatives to reduce costs, adjust capacities,
demands in accordance with the megatrends ­        demographic                              improve our processes and streamline our portfolio: in an
change, urbanization, climate change, globalization and digital                             increasingly competitive market environment, a competitive
transformation (for further information see      c.1.3 strategy ).                          cost structure complements the competitive advantage of
furthermore, a growing awareness for cyber security could lead                              ­being innovative. we believe that further improvements in our
to additional business for high quality solutions offered by the                             cost position can strengthen our global competitive position
former industry sector’s industry automation division.                                       and secure our market presence against emerging and incum-
                                                                                             bent competitors. for example, we expect to create sustainable
we see further opportunities in the growth potential of                                      value from productivity measures in connection with our
emerging markets as well as established markets: we ex-                                      ­“ vision 2020” (for further information, see    c.1.3 strategy ).

pect that in coming years growth in our markets will be driven                                moreover, fostering a stringent claim management process can
by countries in asia and the middle east, in particular by coun-                              help materialize opportunities by enforcing our claims towards
tries such as indonesia and turkey. within one siemens, we                                    our contract partners even stronger.
take measures aimed at continuously increasing our share of
revenue from emerging markets. our “vision 2020” concept,                                   we are realigning our organization: as of november, 2013,
which puts a stronger focus on getting close to customers is                                we disbanded our regional cluster organization. following this
expected to result in higher market penetration (for further                                organizational change, we have designated 30 lead countries
­information, see    c.1.3 strategy ).                                                      which are individually responsible for managing a number
                                                                                            of other countries regarding market penetration. each lead
we believe that developing the capability to design, manufac-                               country reports directly to the managing board. by implement-
ture and sell so-called smart products (simple, maintenance-­                               ing this move, siemens intends to intensify its customer access
friendly, affordable, reliable, and timely-to-market) will pro-                             and expand its regional business. we expect this new setup to
vide us with opportunities to gain market share and enhance                                 further enhance our local market penetration and our customer
our local ­presence in these strategic growth markets. adding                               proximity going forward.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    239
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      as of october 1, 2014, we have also eliminated the sector level             our management is responsible for establishing and maintain-
      and consolidated our business activities into nine divisions and            ing adequate internal control over financial reporting. at the
      one separately managed unit, healthcare (for details see                    end of each fiscal year, our management performs an evalua-
         c.1.1.1 organization and basis of presentation ). this change is         tion of the effectiveness of its control system, both in design
      expected to increase our customer proximity and accelerate our              and operating effectiveness. we have a standardized procedure
      decision-making. in addition, we have made governance even                  under which necessary controls are defined, documented in
      more stringent across all levels of our organization. our man-              accordance with uniform standards, and tested regularly on
      aging board leads the company and maintains the balance be-                 their effectiveness. nevertheless, there are inherent limitations
      tween our businesses and regions. it is supported by strong,                in the effectiveness of any control system, and no system, in-
      efficient corporate governance functions, our corporate core,               cluding one determined to be effective, may prevent or detect
      which is expected to ensure fast, nonbureaucratic deci-                     all misstatements.
      sion-making across key company functions (for details, see
         c.1.3 strategy ).                                                        our consolidated financial statements are prepared on the ba-
                                                                                  sis of a conceptual framework which primarily consists of com-
                                                                                  pany-wide uniform financial reporting guidelines and a chart
       c.9.5 significant characteristics                                          of accounts, both issued centrally and to be applied consistently
      of the accounting-related internal                                          throughout siemens. new laws, accounting standards, and
                                                                                  other official announcements are analyzed on an ongoing basis
      ­control and risk management system                                         with regard to their relevance and impact on the consolidated
                                                                                  financial statements and the combined management report
      the following discussion describes information required pursu-              and where necessary, our financial reporting guidelines and
      ant to section 289 (5) and section 315 (2) no. 5 of the german              the chart of accounts are adjusted accordingly. in quarterly clos-
      commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch) and explanatory report.                 ing letters, accounting departments of siemens ag and its sub-
                                                                                  sidiaries are informed about current topics from an accounting
      the overarching objective of our accounting-related internal                and closing process perspective and any deadlines that must be
      control and risk management system is to ensure that finan-                 met for the respective closing processes.
      cial reporting is conducted in a proper manner such that the
      consolidated financial statements and the combined man-                     the base data used in preparing the consolidated financial
      agement report are prepared in accordance with all relevant                 statements consists of the closing data reported by the opera-
      regulations.                                                                tions of siemens ag and its subsidiaries, which are derived
                                                                                  from the various accounting records. the preparation of the
      as described in      c.9.2 risk management , our erm approach is            closing data of most of our subsidiaries is supported by an
      based on the worldwide accepted “enterprise risk manage-                    ­internal shared services organization. furthermore, other ac-
      ment – integrated framework” developed by the coso. as one of                counting activities, such as governance and monitoring related
      the objectives of this framework is reliability of a company’s               activities, are bundled on regional level. in addition, for some
      ­financial reporting, it also includes an accounting-related per-            areas requiring specialized know-how such as valuations relat-
       spective. the accounting-related internal control system (control           ing to post-employment benefits support from external service
       system) implemented by us is based on internal control –                    providers is obtained and used. the reported closing data is
       integrated framework (2013), an internationally recognized
       ­                                                                           used to prepare the consolidated financial statements in the
       ­framework also developed by the coso. the two systems are                  consolidation system. the steps necessary to prepare the con-
        complementary.                                                             solidated financial statements are subject to both manual and
                                                                                   automated controls at all levels.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
240
                                                                                                        172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                        187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                        193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                        205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                        210   c.5   net assets position

the specialist skills required of employees involved in the ac-                             through audits on a continuous and siemens wide basis our
counting process are assessed when the employees are initially                              internal corporate audit function monitors compliance with
selected; thereafter, the employees receive regular training. as                            our guidelines and the reliability and functional operation of
a fundamental principle, at the different levels and based on                               our control system as well as the adequacy and effectiveness
materiality considerations, items must be verified by at least                              of our risk management system.
one other person (four eyes principle) and specific procedures
must be adhered to for the authorization of the data. additional                            in addition we have rules for accounting-related complaints
control mechanisms include target-performance comparisons                                   and a code of ethics for financial matters.
and analyses of the composition of, and changes in, individual
line items, both in the closing data reported by units and in the                           additional information related to the
consolidated financial statements. accounting-related it sys-                               annual financial statements of siemens ag
tems provide for defined access rules in order to ensure that                               (german commercial code)
accounting related data is protected from unauthorized access,                              siemens ag as the parent company of the siemens group is
use or modification. every unit included in our consolidated                                integrated into the company-wide accounting-related internal
financial statements is subject to the rules and regulations of                             control system described above. generally, the information set
the corporate information security guide.                                                   out above also applies for annual financial statements of
                                                                                            siemens ag prepared in accordance with the german com-
on a quarterly basis, an internal certification process is ex­                              mercial code.
ecuted. management of different levels of our organization,
supported by confirmations of management of entities under                                  the consolidated financial statements are prepared in accor-
their responsibility, confirms the accuracy of the financial data                           dance with ifrs. where required, i.e. for purposes of preparing
that has been reported to siemens’ corporate headquarters and                               statements for local regulatory or tax purposes, data is adopted
reports on the effectiveness of the related control systems.                                in accordance with relevant regulations by means of reconcili-
                                                                                            ation at account level. accordingly, accurately determined ifrs
in addition, we have set up a disclosure committee – compris-                               closing data also forms an important basis for the annual
ing selected heads of corporate units – which is responsible for                            ­financial statements of siemens ag. in the case of siemens ag
reviewing certain financial and non-financial information prior                              and other group companies required to prepare financial state-
to publication.                                                                              ments in accordance with german commercial code, the
                                                                                             ­conceptual framework described above is complemented by
the supervisory board, through the audit committee, is also                                   mandatory regulations specific to german commercial code
integrated into our control system. in particular, the audit                                  within our financial reporting guidelines and a german com-
­committee oversees the accounting process, the effectiveness                                 mercial code chart of accounts. the manual and system-based
 of the control system, the risk management system and the                                    control mechanisms referred to above generally also apply
 internal audit system, and the independent audit of financial                                when ­reconciling the ifrs closing data to the annual financial
 statements. in addition, it conducts an audit of the documents                               statements of siemens ag.
 related to the annual financial statements of siemens ag and
 the consolidated financial statements and discusses the
 ­annual financial statements of siemens ag, the consolidated
  financial statements and combined management report of
  these statements with the managing board and the indepen-
  dent auditors.




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    241
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

             c.10  compensation report and legal disclosures


      the compensation report outlines the principles underlying                   the takeover-relevant information (pursuant to sections 289
      the determination of the total compensation of the members of                para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the german commercial code) and
      the managing board of siemens ag, and sets out the structure                 explanatory report are an integral part of the combined man-
      and level of the remuneration of the managing board mem-                     agement report and are presented in      b.5 takeover-relevant

      bers. it also describes the policies governing and levels of com-            information (pursuant to sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of

      pensation paid to supervisory board members. the compensa-                   the german commercial code) and expl anatory report .

      tion report is an integral part of the combined management
      report and is presented in       b.4 compensation report .                   the compliance report outlines the principles of our compli-
                                                                                   ance system which aims to ensure that all our worldwide busi-
      the corporate governance statement pursuant to section 289a                  ness practices are in line with our business conduct guidelines
      of the german commercial code is an integral part of the com-                and in compliance with all applicable laws. in addition, it de-
      bined management report and is presented in     b.2 corporate                scribes our approach on compliance risk management, busi-
      governance statement pursuant to section 289a of the german                  ness partner compliance due diligence, cooperation with third
      commercial code .                                                            parties and the siemens integrity initiative. the compliance
                                                                                   report is an integral part of the combined management report
                                                                                   and is presented in      b.3 compliance report .




             c.11  siemens ag (discussion on basis of german commercial code)

      unlike our consolidated financial statements, which are                      c.11.2 results of operations
      ­prepared in accordance with the international financial report-
       ing standards (ifrs), the annual financial statements of                               statement of income of siemens ag in accordance
                                                                                              with german commercial code (condensed)
       siemens ag have been prepared in accordance with the rules
       set out in the german commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch).                                                                            september 30,         % change
                                                                                        (in millions of €)                           2014            2013
                                                                                        revenue                                   30,934          30,305                2%
      c.11.1 business and economic environment                                          cost of sales                            (22,109)        (22,016)               0%
                                                                                        gross profit                               8,824           8,289                6%
      siemens ag is the parent company of the siemens group.                             as percentage of revenue                    29%             27%
      siemens ag is a technology company with core activities in the                    research and development
                                                                                        expenses                                  (2,781)          (2,878)              3%
      fields of electrification, automation and digitalization. siemens ag
                                                                                        selling and general
      includes one additional operating business, siemens ­real estate.                 administrative expenses                   (4,036)          (4,173)              3%
      furthermore siemens ag is significantly influenced by directly                    other operating income
      or indirectly owned subsidiaries and investments. siemens ag                      (expenses), net                               (20)           (178)            89%
      holds directly and indirectly 640 legal entities including                        financial income, net
                                                                                         thereof income from
      non-controlling interests. siemens ag also includes the group’s
                                                                                          investments 2,870
      corporate headquarters functions.                                                   (prior year 3,893)                       2,243           3,631             (38)%
                                                                                        result from
      the economic environment for siemens ag is largely the same                       ordinary activities                        4,230           4,692             (10)%
      as for the siemens group and is described in detail in  c.1.2                     income taxes                                 (444)           (840)            47%

      economic environment .                                                            net income                                 3,786           3,852              (2)%
                                                                                        profit carried forward                       110              115             (4)%
                                                                                        assets reduction due
                                                                                        to spin-off                                      –        (1,800)            100%
                                                                                        allocation to other
                                                                                        retained earnings                            (988)            476              n/a
                                                                                        unappropriated net income                  2,907           2,643              10%




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                             171   c.    combined ­management report
242
                                                                                                                  172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                                  187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                                  193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                                  205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                                  210   c.5   net assets position

the increase in revenue is due primarily to revenue increases                               the improvement in other operating income (expenses), net
of € 1.002 billion in the energy sector, € 251 million in the indus-                        resulted from an increase in other operating income of
try sector and € 73 million in the infrastructure & cities sector.                          € 161 million, only slightly offset by an increase of € 4 million in
these increases were partly offset by revenue declines of                                   other operating expenses. within other operating income, pos-
€ 419 million in the healthcare sector and € 16 million in                                  itive effects included € 137 million from higher allocation of
siemens real estate. as a consequence of the mutual agree-                                  central infrastructure and support services to sectors and
ment procedure with tax authorities related to transfer pricing,                            ­divisions outside siemens ag, and gains totaling € 110 million
siemens ag received compensatory payments from siemens                                       ­related to the sale of concessions and industrial property rights
healthcare u.s. the payments amounted to € 259 million, com-                                  to siemens schweiz ag.
pared to € 670 million in the prior year, and were booked as rev-
enue by the healthcare sector. on a geographic basis, revenue                               the decline in financial income, net was primarily attribut-
grew 31 % year-over-year in the asia, australia region and de-                              able to lower income from investments, which decreased by
clined 12 % in the americas region and 3 % in the europe, c.i.s.,                           € 1.023 billion. other financial income was € 395 million lower
africa, middle east region. exports from germany accounted                                  compared to the prior year, while net interest income came in
for 73 % and 70 % of revenue in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respec-                               € 29 million higher.
tively. in fiscal 2014, orders for siemens ag amounted to
€ 32.3 billion, nearly level compared to the prior year.                                    the primary factor for the decrease in income from invest-
                                                                                            ments was lower dividend payments. in fiscal 2013, we received
the increase in gross profit included increases of € 421 million                            a dividend payment of €3.000 billion from siemens beteiligungs­
in the energy sector, € 279 million in the industry sector                                  verwaltung gmbh & co. ohg. we received no such dividend
and € 269 million in the infrastructure & cities sector. these                              payment in fiscal 2014. in contrast, income from profit transfers
­increases were partly offset by a decrease of € 335 million in the                         from siemens beteiligungen inland gmbh increased by
 healthcare sector. a year earlier, gross profit was burdened by                            € 909 million. in addition, gains (losses) from the disposal of
 charges for the company-wide “siemens 2014” productivity im-                               investments came in € 755 million higher year-over-year, in-
 provement program. while both years included project charges,                              cluding a gain of € 321 million from the sale of our 17 % stake in
 these were higher in fiscal 2014. in particular, the energy                                osram licht ag to siemens beteiligungen inland gmbh.
 ­sector’s power transmission division took charges including
  € 361 million related primarily to grid-connections to offshore                           the decrease in other financial income resulted mainly from a
  wind-farms and € 197 million related to onshore hvdc trans­                               realized loss related to interest and foreign currency derivatives
  mission line projects.                                                                    amounting to € 309 million, compared to income amounting to
                                                                                            € 548 million in the prior year. in addition, expenses from com-
research and development (r & d) expenses decreased due                                     pounding of pension provisions increased by € 161 million.
­primarily to a reduction of € 196 million in the infrastructure &                          these factors were partly offset by reversals of impairments of
 cities sector. this decrease was partly offset by increases of                             shares in investments of € 214 million.
 € 46 million in the energy sector and € 16 million in the health-
 care sector. r & d expenses as a percentage of revenue (r & d                              the decline in income tax expenses was due mainly to prior-­
 intensity) decreased by one percentage point, to 9 % year-over                             year one-time special effects.
 year. on an average basis, we employed 12,600 people in r & d
 in fiscal 2014, compared to 12,500 in fiscal 2013. for additional
 information see      c.8.3 research and development .




                                                                                                                    247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    243
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position    242         ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                  c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                              242         iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                  c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                            of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      c.11.3 net assets and financial position                                         the increase in financial assets was due primarily to the pur-
                                                                                       chase of a 14.26% stake in atos se from siemens beteiligungen
             statement of financial position of siemens ag in                          ­inland gmbh amounting to € 779 million and a capital increase
             accordance with german commercial code (condensed)
                                                                                        of € 500 million relating to siemens bank gmbh. in addition,
                                                  september 30,        % change         loans increased € 297 million and securities in non-current
       (in millions of €)                  2014              2013                       ­assets came in € 350 million higher. these increases were partly
       assets                                                                            offset by the sale of our 17 % stake in osram licht ag to
       non-current assets                                                                siemens beteiligungen inland gmbh. the sale price amounted
       intangible and tangible assets     2,419         2,437              (1)%          to € 715 million and the book value amounted to € 395 million.
       financial assets                 42,121         40,530                4%
                                        44,540         42,967                4%        the decline in receivables and other assets was due primar-
       current assets                                                                  ily to lower receivables from affiliated companies as a result of
       receivables and other assets     15,816         17,032              (7)%        intra-group financing activities.
       cash and cash equivalents,
       securities                         2,672         2,282               17%
                                                                                       cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities
                                        18,488         19,313              (4)%
                                                                                       are significantly affected by the liquidity management of
       prepaid expenses                    111                75            48%
                                                                                       siemens ag. t ­ he liquidity management is based on the finance
       deferred tax assets                2,222         2,467             (10)%
                                                                                       strategy of the siemens group. therefore, the change in liquid-
       active difference resulting
       from offsetting                      40                46          (13)%        ity of siemens ag resulted not only from business activities of
       total assets                     65,400         64,868                1%        siemens ag.

       liabilities and equity                                                          the increase in equity was attributable to net income for
       equity                           18,798         18,295                3%        the year of € 3.786 billion and issuance of treasury stock of
                                                                                       € 330 million in conjunction with our share-based compensa-
       special reserve with                                                            tion program. these factors were partly offset by dividends paid
       an equity portion                   759               767           (1)%
                                                                                       in fiscal 2014 (for fiscal 2013) of € 2.533 billion (for additional
       provisions
                                                                                       information see       c.2.5 dividend and share buybacks ). in addi-
       pensions and similar
                                                                                       tion, the equity reduction was due to share buybacks during
       commitments                      11,103         10,432                6%
       other provisions                   7,369         7,827              (6)%
                                                                                       the year amounting to € 1.079 billion. the equity ratios at sep-
                                        18,472         18,260                1%
                                                                                       tember 30, 2014 and 2013 were 29 % and 28 %, respectively.
       liabilities
       liabilities to banks                208               138            51%        the increase in pension and similar commitments included
       advanced payments received          677          1,349             (50)%        interest and service costs amounting to € 1.007 billion and the
       trade payables, liabilities                                                     effect from the adjustment of the discount rate amounting to
       to affiliated companies and                                                     € 277 million. these factors were partly offset by pension pay-
       other liabilities                26,189         25,771                2%
                                                                                       ments amounting to € 514 million.
                                        27,075         27,257              (1)%
       deferred income                     296               290             2%
                                                                                       the decrease in other provisions was due primarily to a de-
       total liabilities and equity     65,400         64,868                1%
                                                                                       crease of € 176 million in provisions for personnel expenses and
                                                                                       a decline of € 98 million in provisions for operating expenses.

                                                                                       the increase in trade payables, liabilities to affiliated com-
                                                                                       panies and other liabilities was due primarily to higher liabil-
                                                                                       ities to affiliated companies as a result of intra-group financing
                                                                                       activities.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                   131    b.    corporate ­governance                    171   c.    combined ­management report
244
                                                                                                             172   c.1   business and ­economic environment
                                                                                                             187   c.2   financial performance system
                                                                                                             193   c.3   results of operations
                                                                                                             205   c.4   financial position
                                                                                                             210   c.5   net assets position

c.11.4 employees                                                                                   c.11.6 risks and opportunities
       indicators
                                                                                                   the business development of siemens ag is fundamentally
                                                                year ended september 30,           subject to the same risks and opportunities as the siemens
                                                                        2014             2013      group. siemens ag generally participates in the risks of its sub-
 employee turnover rate 1                                            4.1%              3.0%        sidiaries and equity investments in line with its percentage of
 female employees in management positions                                                          each holding. for additional information see      c.9.3 risks and
 (percentage of all management positions) 2                        11.8%              11.3%
                                                                                                      c.9.4 opportunities .
 expenses for continuing education
 (in millions of €) 3                                                    98               94
 expenses per employee for continuing
                                                                                                   as the parent company of the siemens group, siemens ag is
 education (in €) 3                                                     919              864       integrated into the group-wide risk management system. for
                                                                                                   additional information see   c.9.2 risk management .

       1 employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits
          from siemens ag during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
                                                                                                   the description of the internal control system for siemens ag
       2 employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary
          responsibility, plus project managers.                                                   required by section 289 para. 5 of the german commercial code
       3 without travel expenses.                                                                 is included in    c.9.5 significant characteristics of the account­

                                                                                                   ing rel ated internal control and risk management system .

as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the numbers of employees
were 106,860 and 108,234 respectively.                                                             for additional information regarding the use of financial
                                                                                                   ­instruments see   notes to the annual financial statements of

       employees of siemens ag                                                                      siemens ag .
       as of september 30, 2014 (in thousands)



energy: 25 (24%)
                                                                                 other: 8 (8%)
                                                                                                   c.11.7 outlook

                                                                         siemens real estate:      due to the interrelations between siemens ag and its subsid-
                                                                                      2 (2%)
healthcare: 10 (10%)                         107                                                   iaries and the relative size of siemens ag within the group, the
                                                                                                   outlook of the group also largely reflects our expectations for
                                                                                                   siemens ag. we expect that the anticipated market and rev­
                                                                        infrastructure & cities:
industry: 36 (33%)                                                                   26 (24%)
                                                                                                   enue developments for fiscal 2015 described in statements made
                                                                                                   ­by the siemens group will be mainly reflected in the revenue of
                                                                                                    siemens ag. in fiscal 2015, we continue to execute the group’s
                                                                                                    “vision 2020” concept. in particular, we expect that gains
                                                                                                    from divestments will significantly influence the profit of
for additional information see                     c.8.2 employees .                                siemens ag. for additional information see       c.9.1 ­r eport on

                                                                                                    expected developments .



c.11.5 subsequent events                                                                           we intend to continue providing an attractive return to share-
                                                                                                   holders. therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a
there have been no events of particular significance since the                                     dividend payout of 40 % to 60 % of net income of siemens
end of fiscal 2014.                                                                                group, which for this purpose we may adjust to exclude
                                                                                                   ­selected exceptional non-cash effects.




                                                                                                                           247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                           337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                           245
213   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position          242          ompensation report and legal disclosures
                                                                         c.10 c
214   c.7    subsequent events                                    242          iemens ag (discussion on basis
                                                                         c.11 s
215   c.8    sustainability and citizenship                                   of ­german ­commercial code)
225   c.9   report on expected developments and
             ­associated material opportunities and risks

      the consolidated financial statements
      are prepared in accordance with inter­
      national financial reporting standards
      (ifrs) as adopted by the european union
      (eu), the supplementary requirements
      of german law pursuant to section
      315a (1) of the german commercial code
      (handels­gesetzbuch) and full ifrs as
      issued by the inter­national accounting
      standards board (iasb). they give a true
      and fair view of the net assets, financial
      position and results of operations
      of the group in accordance with these
      requirements.
       www.siemens.com/ar/consolidated-­f inancial-statements




246

d.                       consolidated
                         ­financial statements


                                                      273   note 13 – inventories
248 d.1      consolidated statements
             of income                                273   note 14 – other current assets

                                                      274   note 15 – goodwill

                                                      275   note 16 – other intangible assets
249 d.2      consolidated statements
             of ­comprehensive income                 276   note 17 – property, plant and equipment

                                                      278   note 18 – other financial assets

                                                      278   note 19 – other current financial liabilities
250 d.3      consolidated statements
             of financial position                    278   note 20 – other current liabilities

                                                      278   note 21 – debt

                                                      281   note 22 – post-employment benefits
251 d.4      consolidated statements
                                                      287   note 23 – provisions
             of cash flows
                                                      288   note 24 – other liabilities

                                                      289   note 25 – equity
252 d.5      consolidated statements
                                                      290   note 26 – additional capital disclosures
             of ­changes in equity
                                                      292   note 27 – commitments and contingencies

                                                      293   note 28 – legal proceedings
254 d.6      notes to consolidated
                                                      296   note 29 – additional disclosures on




                                                                                                                  d. consolidated financial statements
             ­financial statements
                                                                      ­financial instruments
254   note 1 – basis of presentation
                                                      300   note 30 – derivative financial instruments
254   note 2 – summary of significant                                and hedging activities
                ­accounting policies
                                                      301   note 31 – financial risk management
262   note 3 – critical accounting estimates
                                                      306   note 32 – share-based payment
264   note 4 – acquisitions, dispositions and
                                                      309   note 33 – personnel costs
                ­discontinued operations
                                                      309   note 34 – earnings per share
267   note 5 – interests in other entities
                                                      310   note 35 – segment information
268   note 6 – other operating income
                                                      314   note 36 – information about geographies
268   note 7 – other operating expenses
                                                      315   note 37 – related party transactions
268   note 8 – interest income, interest
                expenses and other financial income   317   note 38 – principal accountant fees
                (expenses), net                                       and ­services
269   note 9 – income taxes                           317   note 39 – corporate governance

271   note 10 – available-for-sale financial assets   317   note 40 – subsequent events

271   note 11 – trade and other receivables           318   note 41 – list of subsidiaries and
                                                                      ­ ssociated companies pursuant
                                                                      a
273   note 12 – other current financial assets
                                                                      to section 313 para. 2 of the
                                                                      ­german commercial code


                                                      330 d.7      supervisory board and
                                                                   ­managing board
                                                      330 d.7.1    supervisory board
                                                      334 d.7.2 ­managing board




                                                                                                            247

               d.1  consolidated statements of income


              for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2014 and 2013

       (in millions of €, per share amounts in €)                                                     note               2014          2013
       revenue                                                                                                       71,920         73,445
       cost of sales                                                                                                (51,165)        (53,309)
       gross profit                                                                                                  20,755         20,135
       research and development expenses                                                                              (4,065)        (4,048)
       selling and general administrative expenses                                                                  (10,424)        (10,869)
       other operating income                                                                            6               656           500
       other operating expenses                                                                          7              (194)         (424)
       income from investments accounted for using the equity method, net                                5               582           510
       interest income                                                                                   8             1,058           947
       interest expenses                                                                                 8              (764)         (784)
       other financial income (expenses), net                                                            8              (177)         (154)
       income from continuing operations before income taxes                                                           7,427         5,813
       income tax expenses                                                                               9            (2,028)        (1,634)
       income from continuing operations                                                                               5,400         4,179
       income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                          4               108           231
       net income                                                                                                      5,507         4,409
            attributable to:
         non-controlling interests                                                                                       134           126
          shareholders of siemens ag                                                                                   5,373         4,284
       basic earnings per share                                                                         34
       income from continuing operations                                                                                6.24           4.81
       income from discontinued operations                                                                              0.13           0.27
       net income                                                                                                       6.37           5.08
       diluted earnings per share                                                                       34
       income from continuing operations                                                                                6.18           4.76
       income from discontinued operations                                                                              0.13           0.26
       net income                                                                                                       6.31           5.03




      108    a.   to our shareholders                   131   b.   corporate ­governance   171   c.   combined ­management report
248

         d.2  consolidated statements of ­comprehensive income


        for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2014 and 2013

 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                     note                 2014         2013
 net income                                                                                                                                                5,507        4,409


 remeasurements of defined benefit plans                                                                                                 22                  288          394
 items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss                                                                                                       288          394
  therein: expenses from investments accounted for using the equity method                                                                                      (37)    (121)


 currency translation differences                                                                                                                            940        (1,062)
 available-for-sale financial assets                                                                                                     10                      (56)     183
 derivative financial instruments                                                                                                     29, 30                (316)          45
 items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss                                                                                               569         (834)
  therein: expenses from investments accounted for using the equity method                                                                                      (85)    (136)


 other comprehensive income, net of income taxes                                                                                                             857         (440)
 total comprehensive income                                                                                                                                6,364        3,969
      attributable to:
   non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                 165           81
    shareholders of siemens ag                                                                                                                             6,199        3,888




247    d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                  249
248    d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249    d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250    d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251    d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

               d.3  consolidated statements of financial position


               as of september 30, 2014 and 2013

                                                                                                                                            september, 30
       (in millions of €)                                                                                     note               2014               2013
       assets
            cash and cash equivalents                                                                                          8,013              9,190
            available-for-sale financial assets                                                                 10               925                601
            trade and other receivables                                                                         11           14,526              14,853
            other current financial assets                                                                      12             3,710              3,250
            inventories                                                                                         13           15,100              15,560
            current income tax assets                                                                                            577                794
            other current assets                                                                                14             1,290              1,297
            assets classified as held for disposal                                                               4             3,935              1,393
       total current assets                                                                                                  48,076              46,937
            goodwill                                                                                            15           17,783              17,883
            other intangible assets                                                                             16             4,560              5,057
            property, plant and equipment                                                                       17             9,638              9,815
            investments accounted for using the equity method                                                    5             2,127              3,022
            other financial assets                                                                              18           18,416              15,117
            deferred tax assets                                                                                  9             3,334              3,234
            other assets                                                                                                         945                872
       total non-current assets                                                                                              56,803              54,999
       total assets                                                                                                         104,879             101,936


       liabilities and equity
            short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt                                            21             1,620              1,944
            trade payables                                                                                                     7,594              7,599
            other current financial liabilities                                                                 19             1,717              1,515
            current provisions                                                                                  23             4,354              4,485
            current income tax liabilities                                                                                     1,762              2,151
            other current liabilities                                                                           20           17,954              19,701
            liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal                                   4             1,597                473
       total current liabilities                                                                                             36,598              37,868
            long-term debt                                                                                      21           19,326              18,509
            post-employment benefits                                                                            22             9,324              9,265
            deferred tax liabilities                                                                             9               552                504
            provisions                                                                                          23             4,071              3,907
            other financial liabilities                                                                                        1,620              1,184
            other liabilities                                                                                   24             1,874              2,074
       total non-current liabilities                                                                                         36,767              35,443
       total liabilities                                                                                                     73,365              73,312
       equity                                                                                                   25
            issued capital, no par value                                                                                       2,643              2,643
            capital reserve                                                                                                    5,525              5,484
            retained earnings                                                                                                25,729              22,663
            other components of equity                                                                                           803                268
            treasury shares, at cost                                                                                          (3,747)            (2,946)
       total equity attributable to shareholders of siemens ag                                                               30,954              28,111
            non-controlling interests                                                                                            560                514
       total equity                                                                                                          31,514              28,625
       total liabilities and equity                                                                                         104,879             101,936




      108    a.    to our shareholders                          131   b.   corporate ­governance   171   c.   combined ­management report
250

       d.4  consolidated statements of cash flows


       for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2014 and 2013

 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                  note                  2014     2013
 cash flows from operating activities
   net income                                                                                                                                            5,507     4,409
 adjustments to reconcile net income to cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations
    (income) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                                                                            (108)     (231)
    amortization, depreciation and impairments                                                                                                           2,411     2,804
    income tax expenses                                                                                                                                  2,028     1,634
    interest (income) expenses, net                                                                                                                       (295)     (164)
    (gains) losses on disposals of assets related to investing activities, net                                                                            (527)     (292)
    other (income) losses from investments                                                                                                                (526)     (326)
    other non-cash (income) expenses                                                                                                                        92       671
    change in assets and liabilities
    inventories                                                                                                                                            336      (256)
     trade and other receivables                                                                                                                           200      (326)
    trade payables                                                                                                                                         205      (208)
     other assets and liabilities                                                                                                                       (1,203)      818
    additions to assets leased to others in operating leases                                                                                              (371)     (377)
    income taxes paid                                                                                                                                   (1,828)   (2,164)
   dividends received                                                                                                                                      333       356
   interest received                                                                                                                                       977       837
   cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations                                                                                          7,230     7,186
   cash flows from operating activities – discontinued operations                                                                                         (131)      154
   cash flows from operating activities – continuing and discontinued operations                                                                         7,100     7,340
 cash flows from investing activities
   additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment                                                                                     (1,831)   (1,808)
   acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired                                                                                                        (31)   (2,786)
   purchase of investments                                                                                                                                (335)     (346)
   purchase of current available-for-sale financial assets                                                                                                (613)     (157)
   change in receivables from financing activities                                                                                                      (2,501)   (2,175)
   disposal of investments, intangibles and property, plant and equipment                                                                                  518     2,462
   disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed                                                                                                            112       (26)
   disposal of current available-for-sale financial assets                                                                                                 317        76
   cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations                                                                                         (4,364)   (4,759)
   cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations                                                                                          339      (317)
   cash flows from investing activities – continuing and discontinued operations                                                                        (4,026)   (5,076)
 cash flows from financing activities
   purchase of treasury shares                                                                                                         25               (1,066)   (1,394)
   other transactions with owners                                                                                                                          (20)      (15)
   issuance of long-term debt                                                                                                          21                  527     3,772
   repayment of long-term debt (including current maturities of long-term debt)                                                                         (1,452)   (2,927)
   change in short-term debt and other financing activities                                                                                                801         8
   interest paid                                                                                                                                          (617)     (479)
   dividends paid to shareholders of siemens ag                                                                                        25               (2,533)   (2,528)
   dividends attributable to non-controlling interests                                                                                                    (125)     (152)
   cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations                                                                                         (4,485)   (3,715)
   cash flows from financing activities – discontinued operations                                                                                           (2)      319
   cash flows from financing activities – continuing and discontinued operations                                                                        (4,487)   (3,396)
 effect of deconsolidation of osram on cash and cash equivalents                                                                                             –      (476)
 effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents                                                                                          214      (108)
 change in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                    (1,199)   (1,717)
 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                                                                                                        9,234    10,950
 cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                                                                                              8,034     9,234
 less: cash and cash equivalents of assets classified as held for disposal
 and discontinued operations at end of period                                                                                                               21        44
 cash and cash equivalents at end of period (consolidated statements of financial position)                                                              8,013     9,190




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                            251
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

             d.5  consolidated statements of changes in equity


             for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2014 and 2013



                                                                                            issued capital           capital reserve      retained earnings

       (in millions of €)
       balance as of october 1, 2012                                                              2,643                      6,173                 22,877
       net income                                                                                       –                         –                 4,284
       other comprehensive income, net of income taxes                                                  –                         –                   395
       dividends                                                                                        –                         –                (2,528)
       share-based payment                                                                              –                       21                     (40)
       purchase of treasury shares                                                                      –                         –                      –
       re-issuance of treasury shares                                                                   –                         5                      –
       transactions with non-controlling interests                                                      –                         –                    (52)
       spin-off related changes in equity                                                               –                     (163)                (2,270)
       other changes in equity                                                                          –                     (553)                     (3)
       balance as of september 30, 2013                                                           2,643                      5,484                 22,663


       balance as of october 1, 2013                                                              2,643                      5,484                 22,663
       net income                                                                                       –                         –                 5,373
       other comprehensive income, net of income taxes                                                  –                         –                   290
       dividends                                                                                        –                         –                (2,533)
       share-based payment                                                                              –                       11                     (24)
       purchase of treasury shares                                                                      –                         –                      –
       re-issuance of treasury shares                                                                   –                       31                       –
       transactions with non-controlling interests                                                      –                         –                    (34)
       other changes in equity                                                                          –                         –                     (6)
       balance as of september 30, 2014                                                           2,643                      5,525                 25,729




      108   a.   to our shareholders                     131   b.   corporate ­governance           171      c.   combined ­management report
252

      currency trans­lation        available-for-sale      derivative financial                   treasury       total equity attribut­           non-controlling        total equity
              differences            ­financial assets            instruments                shares at cost      able to shareholders                   interests
                                                                                                                       of siemens ag

                      857                       245                          (44)                  (1,897)                   30,855                           569           31,424
                         –                          –                          –                         –                     4,284                          126            4,409
                  (1,017)                       183                          43                          –                       (396)                         (44)            (440)
                         –                          –                          –                         –                    (2,528)                        (119)          (2,647)
                         –                          –                          –                         –                        (18)                            –             (18)
                         –                          –                          –                   (1,349)                    (1,349)                             –         (1,349)
                         –                          –                          –                      300                         304                             –             304
                         –                          –                          –                         –                        (52)                         (10)             (62)
                         –                          –                          –                         –                    (2,433)                             –         (2,433)
                         –                          –                          –                         –                       (556)                           (8)           (564)
                     (160)                      428                           (1)                  (2,946)                   28,111                           514           28,625


                     (160)                      428                           (1)                  (2,946)                   28,111                           514           28,625
                         –                          –                          –                         –                     5,373                          134            5,507
                      905                         (56)                      (314)                        –                        825                           31              857
                         –                          –                          –                         –                    (2,533)                        (121)          (2,654)
                         –                          –                          –                         –                        (13)                            –             (13)
                         –                          –                          –                   (1,080)                    (1,080)                             –         (1,080)
                         –                          –                          –                      279                         310                             –             310
                         –                          –                          –                         –                        (34)                           (3)            (37)
                         –                          –                          –                         –                          (6)                           5                –
                      745                       373                         (314)                  (3,747)                   30,954                           560           31,514




247    d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                  337      e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                        253
248    d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5     consolidated statements of changes in equity
249    d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6     notes to consolidated financial statements
250    d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7     supervisory board and managing board
251    d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

             d.6  notes to consolidated financial statements


      note 1     basis of presentation                                             loses control of the subsidiary. for consolidated financial
                                                                                   statements, all assets,
                                                                                                   ­­      liabilities, income, expenses and cash
      the accompanying consolidated financial statements present                   flows of siemens ag with those of its subsidiaries are com-
      the operations of siemens ag with registered offices in berlin               bined. intra-group transactions are eliminated in full.
      and munich, germany, and its subsidiaries (the company or
      siemens). they have been prepared in accordance with inter­                  business combinations – business combinations are ac-
      national financial reporting standards (ifrs), as adopted by the                 count­ed for under the acquisition method. siemens as the
      european union as well as with the additional requirements set               ­acquirer and the acquiree may have a relationship that existed
      forth in section 315a (1) of the german commercial code (hgb).                before they contemplated the business combination, referred to
      the financial statements are also in accordance with ifrs as                  as a pre-existing relationship. if the business combination in
      ­issued by the international accounting standards board (iasb).               ­effect settles a pre-existing relationship, siemens as the ac-
                                                                                     quirer recognizes a gain or loss for the pre-existing relationship.
      siemens prepares and reports its consolidated financial state-                 the cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the
      ments in euros (€). due to rounding, numbers presented may                     ­­assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of
      not add up precisely to totals provided.                                       exchange. any contingent consideration to be transferred by
                                                                                     siemens as the acquirer will be recognized at fair value at the
      siemens is a german based multinational technology company                     acquisition date. subsequent changes to the fair value of the
      with core activities in the fields of electrification, automation              contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liabil-
      and digitalization.                                                            ity will be recognized either in profit or loss or as a change to
                                                                                     other comprehensive income. if the contingent consideration
      the consolidated financial statements were authorized for                      is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured; subsequent
      ­issue by the managing board on november 26, 2014. the con-                    settle­ment is accounted for within equity. acquisition-related
       solidated financial statements are generally prepared on the                  costs are expensed in the ­­period incurred. identifiable ­­assets
       historical cost basis, except as stated in note 2 summary of                  acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination
       significant accounting policies .                                             (­including contingent liabilities) are measured initially at their
                                                                                     fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of
                                                                                     any non-controlling interest. uniform accounting policies are
      note 2summary of significant                                                   ­applied. non-controlling interests may be measured at their fair
      ­accounting policies                                                            value (full goodwill method) or at the proportional fair value
                                                                                      of ­­assets acquired and liabilities assumed (partial goodwill
      the accounting policies set out below have been applied con­                    method). after initial recognition non-controlling interests may
                       ­­
      sistently to all periods presented in these consolidated finan­                 show a deficit balance since both profits and losses are allocated
      cial statements.                                                                to the shareholders based on their equity interests. in business
                                                                                      combinations achieved in stages, any previously held equity
      basis of consolidation – the consolidated financial state-                      ­interest in the acquiree is remeasured to its acquisition date fair
      ments include the accounts of siemens ag and its subsidiaries                    value. if there is no loss of control, transactions with non-con-
      over which the company has control. siemens controls an in-                      trolling interests are accounted for as equity transactions not
      vestee if it has power over the investee that is, siemens has                    affecting profit and loss. at the date control is lost, any retained
      existing rights that give siemens the current ability to direct                  equity interests are remeasured to fair value. in case of a written
      the relevant activities, which are the activities that significantly             put on non-controlling interests the company distinguishes
      affect siemens’ return. in addition, siemens is exposed to, or                   whether the prerequisites for the transfer of present ownership
      has rights to, variable returns from the involvement with                        interest are fulfilled at the balance sheet date. provided that the
      the investee and siemens has the ability to use its power over                   company is not the beneficial owner of the shares underlying
      the investee to affect the amount of siemens’ return. when                       the put option, the exercise of the put option will be assumed at
      siemens holds less than the majority of voting rights, other                     each balance sheet date and treated as equity transaction be-
      facts and circumstances including contractual arrangements                       tween shareholders with the recognition of a purchase liability
      that give siemens power over the investee may result in the                      at the respective exercise price. the non-controlling interests
      company controlling the investee. siemens reassesses whether                     participate in profits and losses during the reporting ­­period.
      it controls an investee if, and when, facts and circumstances
      indicate that there are changes to the elements evidencing                   associates and joint ventures – associates are companies
      control. consolidation begins when the company obtains                       over which siemens has the ability to exercise significant
      ­control of the subsidiary and ceases from the date that siemens             influence over operating and financial policies (generally
                                                                                   ­




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                      171   c.   combined ­management report
254

through direct or indirect ownership of 20 % to 50 % of the vot-                               ­ easures and recognizes any retaining investment at its fair
                                                                                               m
ing rights). these are recorded in the consolidated financial                                  value. any difference between the carrying amount of the as-
statements using the equity method and are initially recog-                                    sociate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or
nized at cost. when siemens holds less than 20 % of the voting                                 joint control and the fair value of the retaining investment and
power of the investee, other facts and circumstances may                                       proceeds from disposal is recognized in profit or loss.
­result in the company exercising significant influence. joint
 arrangements are arrangements over which siemens and one                                      joint operations – a joint operation is a jointly controlled
 or more parties have joint control. joint control is the contrac-                             arrange­ment whereby the parties have rights to the assets ­­    and
 tually agreed sharing of control that exists only when decisions                              obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
 about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of                                siemens as joint operator recognizes in relation to its interest
 the parties sharing control. joint arrangements that are struc-                                                              ­­
                                                                                               in the joint operation the assets      and liabilities controlled by
 tured through a separate vehicle are classified as joint ventures                                                                       ­­
                                                                                               siemens, its share of any jointly held assets     or jointly incurred
                                                            ­­
 if the parties to the arrangement have rights to its net assets.                              liabilities and revenues from the sale of its output and any
 joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method                                      ­related expenses including its share in revenues and expenses
 and are initially recognized at cost. the equity method is                                     incurred jointly, in relation to the joint operation.
 ­applied from the date when siemens obtains significant influ-
  ence or joint control, and is discontinued from the date when                                foreign currency translation – the assets,  ­­       including good-
  siemens ceases to have significant influence or joint control                                will, and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, where the functional
  over an ­investee.                                                                           currency is other than the euro, are translated using the spot
                                                                                               exchange rate at the end of the reporting period, ­­       while the
the following policies equally apply to associates and joint ven-                              consolidated statements of income are translated using aver-
tures. where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the                                                                         ­­
                                                                                               age exchange rates during the period.      differences arising from
­accounting policies in line with those of siemens. the excess                                 such translations are recognized within equity and reclassified
 of siemens’ initial investment in associates over siemens’ own-                               to net income when the gain or loss on disposal of the foreign
 ership percentage in the underlying net ­­assets of those compa-                              subsidiary is recognized. the consolidated statements of cash
 nies is attributed to certain fair value adjustments with the                                 flow are translated at average exchange rates during the
 ­remaining portion recognized as goodwill. goodwill relating to                               ­­­period, whereas cash and cash equivalents are translated at the
  the acquisition of associates is included in the carrying amount                             spot exchange rate at the end of the reporting ­­period.
  of the investment and is not amortized but is tested for impair-
  ment as part of the overall investment in the associate.                                     the exchange rate of the u.s. dollar, siemens’ significant cur-
  siemens’ share of its associate’s post-acquisition profits or                                rency outside the euro zone used in the preparation of the
  losses is recognized in the consolidated statements of income,                               ­consolidated financial statements is as follows:
  and its share of post-acquisition movements in equity that
  have not been recognized in the associate’s profit or loss is rec-
  ognized directly in equity. the cumulative post-acquisition                                                                             year-end exchange             annual average
                                                                                                                                          rate € 1 quoted into      rate € 1 quoted into
  movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the
                                                                                                                                                  currencies                currencies
  investment in the associate. when siemens’ share of losses in                                                                              specified below           specified below
  an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate,                                                                                                            year ended
                                                                                                                                              september 30,             september 30,
  siemens does not recognize further losses, unless it incurs
                                                                                                 currency                 iso code         2014          2013        2014          2013
  ­obligations or makes payments on behalf of the associate. the
                                                                                                 u.s. dollar                 usd          1.258        1.351        1.357       1.313
   interest in an associate is the carrying amount of the invest-
   ment in the associate together with any long-term interests
   that, in substance, form part of siemens’ net investment in the
   associate. intercompany results arising from transactions be-
   tween siemens and its associates are eliminated to the extent                               foreign currency transaction – transactions that are
   of siemens’ interest in the associate. siemens determines at                                ­denominated in a currency other than the functional currency
   each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence                                  of an entity, are recorded at that functional currency applying
   that the investment in the associate is impaired. if this is the                             the spot exchange rate at the date when the underlying trans-
   case, siemens calculates the amount of impairment as the                                     actions are initially recognized. at the end of the reporting
   ­difference between the recoverable amount of the associate                                  ­­­period, foreign currency-denominated monetary ­­assets and lia-
    and its carrying value. upon loss of significant influence over                             bilities are revalued to functional currency applying the spot
    the associate or joint control over the joint venture, siemens                              exchange rate prevailing at that date. gains and losses arising




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                               337     e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                           255
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      from these foreign currency revaluations are recognized in net               the estimates of the total contract revenue and the total con-
      income. those foreign currency-denominated transactions                      tract costs are adjusted reflecting the reduced scope of work to
      which are classified as non-monetary are remeasured using the                be performed, typically leading to a reversal of revenue recog-
      historical spot exchange rate.                                               nized. this methodology is also applied to contracts for which it
                                                                                   is management’s best estimate that a termination is the most
      revenue recognition – under the condition that persuasive                    likely scenario, but which have not yet been ­terminated.
      evidence of an arrangement exists revenue is recognized to the
      extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to           rendering of services: revenues from service transactions are
      the company and the revenue can be reliably measured, regard­                recognized as services are performed. for long-term service
      less of when the payment is being made. in cases where the                   contracts, revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis over
      inflow of economic benefits is not probable due to customer                  the term of the contract or, if the performance pattern is other
      related credit risks the revenue recognized is subject to the                than straight-line, as the services are provided, i.e. under the
      amount of payments irrevocably received. revenue is mea-                     percentage-of-completion method as described above.
      sured at the fair value of the consideration received or receiv-
      able net of discounts and rebates and excluding taxes or duty.               sales from multiple element arrangements: sales of goods
      the company assesses its revenue arrangements against spe-                   and services as well as software arrangements sometimes
      cific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or         ­involve the provision of multiple elements. in these cases, the
      agent. the following specific recognition criteria must also be               ­company determines whether the contract or arrangement
      met before revenue is recognized:                                              contains more than one unit of accounting. if certain criteria
                                                                                     are met, foremost if the delivered element(s) has (have) value
      sale of goods: revenue from the sale of goods is recognized                    to the customer on a stand-alone basis, the arrangement is sep-
      when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the                     arated and the appropriate revenue recognition convention is
      goods have passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods.              then applied to each separate unit of accounting. generally, the
                                                                                     total arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate
      sales from construction contracts: a construction contract is a                units of accounting based on their relative fair values. how-
      contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset              ever, if in rare cases fair value evidence is available for the un-
      or a combination of ­­assets that are closely interrelated or inter-           delivered but not for one or more of the delivered elements, the
      dependent in terms of their design, technology and function or                 amount allocated to the delivered element(s) equals the total
      their ultimate purpose or use. when the outcome of a construc-                 arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of
      tion contract can be estimated reliably, revenues from con-                    the undelivered element(s) (residual method). if the criteria for
      struction-type projects are recognized under the percent-                      the separation of units of accounting are not met, revenue is
      age-of-completion method, based on the percentage of costs                                                                        ­­
                                                                                     ­deferred until such criteria are met or until the period in which
      incurred to date compared to the total estimated contract costs.                the last undelivered element is delivered.
      an expected loss on the construction contract is recognized as
      an expense immediately. when the outcome of a construction                   interest income: interest is recognized using the effective inter-
      contract cannot be estimated reliably (1) revenue is recognized              est method.
      only to the extent contract costs incurred are probable of being
      recoverable, and (2) contract costs are recognized as an                     royalties: royalties are recognized on an accrual basis in accor-
      ­expense in the ­­period in which they are incurred.                         dance with the substance of the relevant agreement.

      during project execution, variation orders by the customer for a             income from lease arrangements: operating lease income for
      change in the scope of the work to be performed under the con-               equipment rentals is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
      tract may be received leading to an increase or a decrease in                lease term. an arrangement that is not in the legal form of a
      contract revenue. examples of such variations are changes                    lease is accounted for as a lease if it is dependent on the use of
      in the specifications or design of the asset and changes in the              a specific asset or ­­assets and the arrangement conveys a right
      ­duration of the contract. as the scope of work to be performed              to use the asset. receivables from finance leases, in which
       changes also in case of contract terminations, such termina-                siemens as lessor transfers substantially all the risks and re-
       tions are considered to be a subset of variations. therefore                wards incidental to ownership to the customer are recognized
       the requirements of ias 11 relating to variations are applied to            at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. finance
       ­contract terminations, irrespective of whether the contract is             income is subsequently recognized based on a pattern ­reflecting
        ­terminated by the customer, siemens or both. in accordance                a constant ­­periodic rate of return on the net investment using
         with the requirements of ias 11 relating to changes in estimates,         the effective interest method. a selling profit component on




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.   combined ­management report
256

manufacturing leases is recognized based on the policies for                                   costs for development activities, whereby research findings are
outright sales. profit from sale and leaseback transactions is rec-                            applied to a plan or design for the production of new or sub-
ognized immediately if significant risks and r­ ewards of owner-                               stantially improved products and processes, are capitalized if
ship have passed to the buyer, the leaseback results in an                                     (1) development costs can be measured reliably, the product
­operating lease and the transaction is established at fair value.                             or process is (2) technically and (3) commercially feasible,
                                                                                               (4) ­future economic benefits are probable and (5) siemens
dividends: dividends are recognized when the right to receive                                  ­intends, and (6) has sufficient resources, to complete develop-
payment is established.                                                                         ment and to use or sell the asset. the costs capitalized include
                                                                                                the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attribut-
  functional costs – in general, operating expenses by types                                    able expenditure that serves to prepare the asset for use. such
   are assigned to the functions following the functional area                                  capitalized costs are included in line item other intangible
  of the corresponding profit and cost centers. expenses relating                               ­­assets as software and other internally generated intangible
  to cross-functional initiatives or projects are assigned to the                               ­assets. other development costs are expensed as incurred.
  ­respective functional costs based on an appropriate allocation                                capitalized development costs are stated at cost less accumu-
   principle. regarding amortization see   note 16 other intangible                              lated amortization and impairment losses with an amortization
­­a ssets , regarding depreciation see    note 17 propert y, pl ant                              ­period of generally three to ten years.
   and equipment and regarding employee benefit expenses see

      note 33 personnel costs .                                                                government grants for research and development activities are
                                                                                               offset against research and development costs. they are recog-
 government grants – government grants are recognized                                          nized as income over the p ­ eriods in which the research and
 when there is reasonable assurance that the conditions at-                                    development costs incur that are to be compensated. govern-
 tached to the grants are complied with and the grants will be                                 ment grants for future research and development costs are
 received. grants awarded for the purchase or the production                                   ­recorded as deferred income.
 of fixed ­­assets (grants related to ­­assets) are generally offset
 against the acquisition or production costs of the respective                                 earnings per share – basic earnings per share are computed
­assets and reduce future depreciations accordingly. grants                                    by dividing income from continuing operations, income from
 awarded for other than non-current ­assets (grants related to                                 discontinued operations and net income, all attributable to
 income) are reported in the consolidated statements of income                                 ­ordinary shareholders of siemens ag by the weighted average
 under the same functional area as the corresponding expenses.                                  number of shares outstanding during the year. diluted earn-
 they are recognized as income over the periods  ­­      necessary                              ings per share are calculated by assuming conversion or exer-
 to match them on a systematic basis to the costs that are                                      cise of all potentially dilutive securities and share-based pay-
 ­intended to be compensated. government grants for future                                      ment plans.
  ­expenses are recorded as deferred income.
                                                                                               goodwill – goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for
product-related expenses and losses from onerous con-                                          impairment annually, as well as whenever there are events or
tracts – provisions for estimated costs related to product war-                                changes in circumstances (triggering events) which suggest
ranties are recorded in line item cost of sales at the time the                                that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. goodwill is
related sale is recognized, and are established on an individual                               carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
basis, except for the standard product business. the estimates
reflect historic experience of warranty costs, as well as infor-                               the goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of a
mation regarding product failure experienced during construc-                                  cash-­generating unit or a group of cash-generating units repre-
tion, installation or testing of products. in the case of new                                  sented by a division or equivalent, which is the lowest level
products, expert opinions and industry data are also taken                                     at which goodwill is monitored for internal management
into consideration in estimating product warranty provisions.                                  ­purposes.
­expected losses from onerous contracts are recognized in the
 period when the current estimate of total contract costs
 ­                                                                                             for the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in
 ­exceeds contract revenue.                                                                    a business combination is allocated to the cash-generating
                                                                                               unit or the group of cash-generating units that is expected to
 research and development costs – costs of research activi-                                    ­benefit from the synergies of the business combination. if the
 ties undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or                                 carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or the group of
 technical knowledge and understanding are expensed as                                          cash-generating units, to which the goodwill is allocated, ex-
­incurred.                                                                                      ceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss on goodwill




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    257
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      allocated to this cash-generating unit or this group of cash-­                  impairment of property, plant and equipment and other
      generating units is recognized. the recoverable amount is the                   intangible ­assets – the company reviews property, plant and
      higher of the cash-generating unit’s or the group of cash-­                     equipment and other intangible ­assets for impairment when-
      generating units’ fair value less costs to sell and its value in                ever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the car-
      use. if either of these amounts exceeds the carrying amount,                    rying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. in addition,
      it is not always necessary to determine both amounts. these                     intangible ­assets with indefinite useful lives as well as intangi-
      values are generally determined based on discounted cash flow                   ble ­assets not yet available for use are subject to an annual im-
      calculations. impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed                    pairment test. recoverability of ­assets is measured by the com-
      in future p­ eriods if the recoverable amount exceeds the carry-                parison of the carrying amount of the asset to the recoverable
      ing amount of the cash-generating unit or the group of cash-­                   amount, which is the higher of the asset’s value in use and its
      generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.                            fair value less costs to sell. if ­assets do not generate cash in-
                                                                                      flows that are largely independent of those from other a   ­ ssets or
      other intangible ­assets – the company amortizes intangible                     groups of a ­ ssets, the impairment test is not performed at an
      ­assets with finite useful lives on a straight-line basis over their            individual asset level, instead, it is performed at the level of the
       respective estimated useful lives. estimated useful lives for                  cash-generating unit the asset belongs to. if such ­assets are
       ­patents, licenses and other similar rights generally range from               considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is
        three to five years, except for intangible ­assets with finite use-           measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the
        ful lives acquired in business combinations. intangible a    ­ ssets          assets or cash-generating unit exceeds their recoverable
                                                                                      ­
        acquired in business combinations primarily consist of cus-                   amount. if the fair value cannot be determined, the a         ­ ssets’
        tomer relationships and technology. useful lives in specific                  value in use is applied as their recoverable amount. the a    ­ ssets’
        ­acquisitions ranged from eleven to twenty years for cus­tomer                value in use is measured by discounting their estimated future
         relationships and from three to 18 years for technology. intan-              cash flows. if there is an indication that the reasons which
         gible a­ ssets which are determined to have indefinite useful                caused the impairment no longer exist, siemens assesses the
         lives as well as intangible ­assets not yet available for use are            need to reverse all or a portion of the impairment.
         not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least
         ­annually.                                                                   the company’s property, plant and equipment and other intan-
                                                                                      gible ­assets to be disposed of are recorded at the lower of
      property, plant and equipment – property, plant and equip-                      ­carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and depreciation
      ment, including investment property, is valued at cost less                      is ceased.
      ­accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
                                                                                      discontinued operations and non-current a           ­ ssets held for
      if the costs of certain components of an item of property, plant                disposal – discontinued operations are reported when a com-
      and equipment are significant in relation to the total cost of the                 ponent of an entity comprising operations and cash flows that
      item, they are accounted for and depreciated separately. depre-                 can be clearly distinguished, operationally and for financial
      ciation expense is recognized using the straight-line method.                   ­reporting purposes, from the rest of the entity is classified as
      residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and, if                   held for disposal or has been disposed of, if the component
      expectations differ from previous estimates, adjusted accord-                    ­either (1) represents a separate major line of business or geo-
      ingly. costs of construction of qualifying ­assets, i.e. ­assets that             graphical area of operations and (2) is part of a single co-­
      require a substantial p­ eriod of time to be ready for its intended               ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or
      use, include capitalized interest, which is amortized over the                    geographical area of operations or (3) is a subsidiary acquired
      estimated useful life of the related asset. the following useful                  exclusively with a view to resale. in the consolidated state-
      lives are assumed:                                                                ments of income, income (loss) from discontinued operations
                                                                                        is reported separately from income and expenses from continu-
                                                                                        ing operations; prior ­periods are presented on a comparable
                                                                                        basis. in the consolidated statements of cash flow, the cash
       factory and office buildings                              20 to 50 years         flows from discontinued operations are presented separately
       other buildings                                            5 to 10 years         from cash flows of continuing operations; prior p  ­ eriods are pre-
       technical machinery & equipment                            5 to 10 years         sented on a comparable basis. the disclosures in the notes
       furniture & office equipment                         generally 5 years           to the consolidated financial statements outside             note 4

       equipment leased to others                      generally 3 to 5 years           ­a cquisitions, dispositions and discontinued operations that refer

                                                                                         to the consolidated statements of income and the consoli-
                                                                                         dated statements of cash flow relate to continuing operations.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.     corporate ­governance                     171   c.   combined ­management report
258

siemens reports discontinued operations separately in                            note 4        ­ rst-out method. production costs comprise direct material
                                                                                               fi
acquisitions, dispositions and discontinued operations . in order                              and labor and applicable manufacturing overheads, including
to present the financial effects of a discontinued operation, rev-                             ­depreciation charges. net realizable value is the estimated sell-
enue and expenses arising from intragroup transactions are                                      ing price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
eliminated except for those revenue and expenses that are con-                                  costs of completion and selling expenses.
sidered to continue after the disposal of the discontinued oper-
ation. in any case, no profit or loss is recognized for intragroup                             defined benefit plans – siemens measures the entitlements
transactions.                                                                                  of the defined benefit plans by applying the projected unit
                                                                                               credit method. the approach reflects an actuarially calculated
siemens classifies a non-current asset or a disposal group as                                  net present value of the future benefit entitlement for services
held for disposal if its carrying amount will be recovered princi-                             already rendered. in determining the net present value of the
pally through a sale transaction or through distribution to                                    future benefit entitlement for service already rendered (defined
shareholders rather than through continuing use. for this to be                                benefit obligation (dbo)), siemens considers future compensa-
the case, the asset or disposal group must be available for im-                                tion and benefit increases, because the employee’s final benefit
mediate sale or distribution in its present condition subject                                  entitlement at regular retirement age depends on future com-
only to terms that are usual and customary for sales or distribu-                              pensation or benefit increases. the assumptions used for the
tions of such a­ ssets or disposal groups and its sale or distribu-                            calculation of the dbo as of the ­period-end of the preceding
tion must be highly probable. the disclosures in the notes to                                  fiscal year are used to determine the calculation of service cost
consolidated financial statements outside           note 4 acquisi-                            and interest income and expense of the following year. the net
tions, dispositions and discontinued operations that refer to the                              interest income or expense for the fiscal year will be based on
consolidated statements of financial position generally relate                                 the discount rate for the respective year multiplied by the net
   assets that are not held for disposal. siemens reports
to ­                                                                                           liability at the preceding fiscal year’s ­period-end date. the fair
non-current ­assets or disposal groups held for disposal sepa-                                 value of plan a ­ ssets and dbo and thus the interest income on
rately in    note 4 acquisitions, dispositions and discontinued                                plan ­assets and the interest expenses on dbo are adjusted for
operations . non-current ­   assets classified as held for disposal                            significant events after the preceding fiscal year end, such as a
and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying                                supplemental funding, plan changes or business combinations
amount and fair value less costs to sell, unless these items pre-                              and disposals. the dbo includes the present value from the
sented in the disposal group are not part of the measurement                                   effects of taxes payable by the plan on contributions or bene-
scope as defined in ifrs 5, non-current assets held for sale and                               fits relating to services already rendered.
discontinued operations.
                                                                                               service cost and past service cost for post-employment benefits
income taxes – the company applies ias 12, income taxes.                                       as well as other administration costs which are unrelated to the
      current taxes are calculated based on the profit (loss) of the                           management of plan ­assets are allocated among functional
      fiscal year and in accordance with local tax rules of the tax                            costs (line items cost of sales, research and development
­jurisdiction respectively. expected and executed additional tax                               ­expenses, selling and general administrative expenses) follow-
 payments respectively tax refunds for prior years are also taken                               ing the functional area of the corresponding profit and cost
 into account. under the liability method, deferred tax a          ­ ssets                      centers. past service cost and settlement gains (losses) are rec-
 and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences                                     ognized immediately in profit or loss when the plan amend-
 ­attributable to differences between the financial statement                                   ment, curtailment or settlement occurs. administration costs
  ­carrying amounts of existing a       ­ ssets and liabilities and their                       which are related to the management of plan a        ­ ssets and taxes
   ­respective tax bases. the effect on deferred tax ­assets and                                directly linked to the return on plan a  ­ ssets and payable by the
    ­liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the income                           plan itself are included in the return on plan a  ­ ssets and are rec-
     statement, unless related to items directly recognized in equity,                          ognized in other comprehensive income, net of income taxes.
     in the p  ­ eriod the new laws are enacted or substantively                                for unfunded plans, siemens recognizes a post-employment
     ­enacted. deferred tax a­ ssets are recognized to the extent that it                       benefit liability equal to the dbo. for funded plans, siemens
      is probable that future taxable income will be available against                          offsets the fair value of the plan ­assets with the benefit obliga-
      which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses                             tions. siemens recognizes the net amount, after adjustments
      and unused tax credits can be utilized.                                                   for effects relating to any asset ceiling, in line item post-­employ­
                                                                                                ment benefits or in line item other current ­assets.
inventories – inventories are valued at the lower of acquisi-
tion or production costs and net realizable value, costs being                                 remeasurements comprise actuarial gains and losses, resulting
generally determined on the basis of an average or first-in,                                   for example from an adjustment of the discount rate, as well as




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                         259
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      the difference between the return on plan a   ­ssets and the                  mainly comprise notes and bonds, loans from banks, trade pay-
      amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefits                  ables, obligations under finance leases and derivative financial
      liability (asset) and are recognized in other comprehensive                   instruments with a negative fair value. siemens does not make
      ­income, net of income taxes.                                                 use of the option to designate financial ­assets or financial liabil-
                                                                                    ities at fair value through profit or loss at inception (fair value
      provisions – a provision is recognized in the statement of                    option). based on their nature, financial instruments are classi-
         ­financial position when the company has a present legal or                fied as financial ­assets and financial liabilities measured at cost
      constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable           or amortized cost and financial ­­­assets and financial liabilities
      that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle               measured at fair value and as receivables from finance leases.
      the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
      amount of the obligation. if the effect is material, provisions are           financial instruments are recognized on the consolidated state­
      recognized at present value by discounting the expected future                ments of financial position when siemens becomes a party to
      cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market assess-              the contractual obligations of the instrument. regular way
      ments of the time value of money. when a contract b           ­ ecomes        ­purchases or sales of financial ­­assets, i.e. purchases or sales
         onerous, the present obligation under the contract is recog-                under a contract whose terms require delivery of the ­asset
      nized as a provision and measured at the lower of the ­expected                within the time frame established generally by regulation or
      cost of fulfilling the contract and the expected cost of terminat-             convention in the market place concerned, are accounted for at
      ing the contract as far as they exceed the expected economic                   the trade date.
      benefits of the contract. additions to provisions and reversals
      are generally recognized in the consolidated statements of                    initially, financial instruments are recognized at their fair value.
      ­income. the present value of the recognized obligations associ-              transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or
       ated with the retirement of property, plant and equipment                    ­issue of financial instruments are only included in determining
       (­asset retirement obligations) that result from the acquisition,             the carrying amount, if the financial instruments are not
       construction, development or normal use of an asset is added to               ­measured at fair value through profit or loss. receivables from
       the carrying amount of the related asset. the additional carry-                ­finance leases are recognized at an amount equal to the net
       ing amount is depreciated over the useful life of the related                   investment in the lease. subsequently, financial ­­assets and
       ­asset. additions to and reductions from the present value of                   ­liabilities are measured according to the category – cash and
        ­asset retirement obligations that result from changes in esti-                                                                    ­­
                                                                                        cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets,      loans and
      mates are generally recognized by adjusting the carrying                          receivables, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost or
         amount of the related asset and provision. if the asset ­retirement            financial ­­assets and liabilities classified as held for trading – to
         obligation is settled for other than the carrying amount of the                which they are assigned.
         liability, the company recognizes a gain or loss on ­settlement.
                                                                                    cash and cash equivalents – the company considers all
      termination benefits – termination benefits are provided as                   highly liquid investments with less than three months matu-
      a result of an entity’s offer made in order to encourage volun-               rity from the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents. cash
      tary redundancy before the normal retirement date or from an                  and cash equivalents are measured at cost.
      entity ’s decision to terminate the employment. termination
      benefits in accordance with ias 19, employee benefits, are rec-               available-for-sale financial ­­assets – investments in equity
      ognized as a liability and an expense when the entity can no                  instruments, debt instruments and fund shares are all classi-
      longer withdraw the offer of those benefits.                                  fied as available-for-sale financial assets
                                                                                                                         ­­     and are measured at
                                                                                    fair value, if reliably measurable. unrealized gains and losses,
      financial instruments – a financial instrument is any con-                    net of applicable deferred income tax expenses, are recognized
       tract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a               in line item other comprehensive income, net of income taxes.
      finan­cial liability or equity instrument of another entity. finan-           provided that fair value cannot be reliably determined, siemens
           ­ ssets of the company mainly include cash and cash equiv-
      cial a                                                                        measures available-for-sale financial instruments at cost. this
      alents, available-for-sale financial ­  assets, trade receivables,            applies to equity instruments that do not have a quoted market
      loans receivables, receivables from finance leases and d ­ erivative          price in an active market, and decisive parameters cannot be
      financial instruments with a positive fair value. cash and cash               reliably estimated to be used in valuation models for the deter-
      equivalents are not included within the category available-for-               mination of fair value.
      sale ­financial ­assets as these financial instruments are not sub-
      ject to fluctuations in value. siemens does not make use of the                                                 ­ ssets incur a decline in fair
                                                                                    when available-for-sale financial a
      ­category held to maturity. financial liabilities of the company              value below acquisition cost and there is objective evidence




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate ­governance                       171   c.   combined ­management report
260

that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that has been                                  l­iabilities that result from meeting the firm commitments are
recognized in equity is removed from equity and recognized in                                   ­adjusted to include the cumulative changes in the fair value
the consolidated statements of income. the company consid-                                       that were previously recognized as separate financial ­assets or
ers all available evidence such as market conditions and prices,                                 ­liabilities.
investee-specific factors and the duration as well as the extent
to which fair value is less than acquisition cost in evaluating                                cash flow hedges – the effective portion of changes in the fair
potential impairment of its available-for-sale financial a ­ ssets.                            value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges
the company considers a decline in fair value as objective                                     are recognized in line item other comprehensive ­income, net
­evidence of impairment, if the decline exceeds 20 % of costs or                               of income taxes (applicable deferred income tax), and any inef-
 continues for more than six months. an impairment loss is                                     fective portion is recognized immediately in net income.
 ­reversed in subsequent p­ eriods, if the reasons for the impair-                             amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified into net in-
  ment no longer exist. the reversal of impairment losses on                                   come in the same p                                   ­ ffects net
                                                                                                                  ­ eriods in which the hedged item a
  debt instruments is recognized in the consolidated statement                                 income.
  of income, while any reversal of impairment losses on equity
  instruments is recognized in line item other comprehensive                                   share-based payment – ifrs 2, share-based payment, distin-
  income, net of income taxes.                                                                 guishes between cash-settled and equity-settled share-based
                                                                                               payment transactions. for both types, the fair value is mea-
loans and receivables – financial a­ ssets classified as loans                                 sured at grant date and compensation expense is recognized
and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the ef-                                   over the vesting ­period during which the employees become
fective interest method less any impairment losses. impair-                                    unconditionally entitled to the awards granted. cash-settled
ment losses on trade and other receivables are recognized                                      awards are re-measured at fair value at the end of each report-
­
using separate allowance accounts. loans and receivables                                       ing ­period and upon settlement. the fair value of share-based
bearing no or lower interest rates compared to market rates                                    awards, such as stock awards, matching shares, and shares
with a maturity of more than one year are discounted.                                          granted under the jubilee share program, is determined as the
                                                                                               market price of siemens shares, considering dividends during
financial liabilities – siemens measures financial liabilities,                                the vesting p­ eriod the grantees are not entitled to and market
except for derivative financial instruments, at amortized cost                                 conditions and non-vesting conditions, if applicable.
using the effective interest method.
                                                                                               prior-year information – the presentation of certain prior-­
derivative financial instruments – derivative financial                                        year information has been reclassified to conform to the cur-
­instruments, such as foreign currency exchange contracts and                                  rent year presentation. to enhance transparency, the company
 interest rate swap contracts, are measured at fair value. deriv-                              changed retrospectively the presentation of financing of dis-
 ative financial instruments are classified as held for trading un-                            continued operations in the consolidated statements of cash
 less they are designated as hedging instruments, for which                                    flows in fiscal 2014.
 hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of deriv-
 ative financial instruments are recognized p­ eriodically either in                           recently adopted accounting
 net income or, in the case of a cash flow hedge, in line item                                 pronouncements
 other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (applicable                                   as of october 1, 2013, siemens adopted ifrs 10, consolidated
 deferred income tax). certain derivative instruments embed-                                   financial statements, ifrs 11, joint arrangements, ifrs 12, dis-
 ded in host contracts are also accounted for separately as                                    closure of interests in other entities and consequential amend-
 ­derivatives.                                                                                 ments to ias 27, separate financial statements (amended
                                                                                               2011) and ias 28, investments in associates and joint ventures
fair value hedges – the carrying amount of the hedged item                                     (amended 2011). ifrs 10 provides a comprehensive concept of
is adjusted by the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.                               control in determining whether an entity is to be consolidated,
where an unrecognized firm commitment is designated as                                         ifrs 11 provides guidance on accounting for joint arrangements
hedged item, the subsequent cumulative change in its fair                                      by focusing on rights and obligations of the arrangement and
value is recognized as a separate financial asset or liability with                            ifrs 12 provides comprehensive disclosure requirements for all
corresponding gain or loss recognized in net income.                                           forms of interests in other entities. the standards are applied
                                                                                               on a retrospective basis. the adoption of the new standards did
for hedged items carried at amortized cost, the adjustment is                                  not have a material impact on the ­company ’s consolidated
amortized until maturity of the hedged item. for hedged                                        ­financial statements. the application of ifrs 12 resulted in
firm commitments the initial carrying amount of the ­assets or                                  ­additional disclosures.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    261
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      as of october 1, 2013, siemens adopted ifrs 13, fair value                  note 3   critical accounting estimates
      ­
      measurement. the new standard defines fair value and
      ­standardizes disclosures on fair value measurements of both                siemens’ consolidated financial statements are prepared in
       ­financial and non-financial instrument items. the standard                ­accordance with ifrs as issued by the iasb and as adopted by
        is ­applied on a prospective basis. the adoption of ifrs 13 did            the eu. siemens’ significant accounting policies, as described
        not have a material impact on the company ’s consolidated                  in       note 2 summary of significant accounting policies are

        ­financial statements.                                                     ­essential to understanding the company’s results of operations,
                                                                                    ­financial positions and cash flows. certain of these accounting
      recent accounting pronouncements,                                              policies require critical accounting estimates that involve com-
      not yet adopted                                                                plex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions,
      the following pronouncements, issued by the iasb, are not yet                  some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain
      effective and have not yet been adopted by the company:                        and susceptible to change. such critical accounting estimates
                                                                                     could change from ­period to ­period and have a material impact
      in july 2014, the iasb completed its project to replace ias 39,                on the company’s results of operations, financial positions and
      financial instruments: recognition and measurement by pub-                     cash flows. critical accounting estimates could also involve
      lishing the final version of ifrs 9: financial instruments. ifrs 9             ­estimates where management reasonably could have used a
      introduces a single approach for the classification and measure-                different estimate in the current accounting p ­ eriod. manage-
      ment of financial ­assets according to their cash flow character-               ment cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and
      istics and the business model they are managed in, and pro-                     that estimates routinely require adjustment.
      vides a new impairment model based on expected credit losses.
      ifrs 9 also includes new regulations regarding the application              revenue recognition on construction contracts – the
      of hedge accounting to better reflect an entity’s risk manage-               company ’s sectors, particularly energy, industry and infra-
      ment activities especially with regard to managing non-finan-                structure & cities, conduct a significant portion of their
      cial risks. the new standard is effective for annual reporting               ­
                                                                                   business under construction contracts with customers.
      ­periods beginning on or after january 1, 2018, while early                  the ­company accounts for construction projects using the
       ­application is permitted. the european financial reporting                 percentage-­    completion method, recognizing revenue as
                                                                                                of-­
        ­ad­visory group postponed its endorsement advice on ifrs 9.               performance on contract progresses. certain long-term ser-
      the c   ­ ompany is currently assessing the impacts of adopting             vice contracts are accounted for under the percentage-of-­
         ifrs 9 on the company’s consolidated financial statements.               completion method as well. this method places considerable
                                                                                  importance on accurate estimates of the extent of progress
      in may 2014, the iasb issued ifrs 15, revenue from contracts                towards completion and may involve estimates on the scope
      with customers. according to the new standard, revenue is rec-              of deliveries and services required for fulfilling the contractu-
      ognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to             ally defined obligations. these significant estimates include
      a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to                  total contract costs, total contract revenues, contract risks,
      which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for                    ­including technical, political and regulatory risks, and other
      those goods or services. revenue is recognized when, or as,                  judgments. under the percentage-of-completion method,
      the customer obtains control of the goods or services. ifrs 15               changes in estimates may lead to an increase or decrease of
      also includes guidance on the presentation of contract bal-                  revenue. the creditworthiness of our customers is taken into
                      ­ ssets and liabilities arising from contracts with
      ances, that is, a                                                            account in estimating the probability that economic benefits
      customers, depending on the relationship between the entity’s                associated with a contract will flow to the company. in addi-
      performance and the customer’s payment. in addition, the new                 tion, we need to assess whether the contract is expected to
      standard requires a set of quantitative and qualitative disclo-              continue or to be terminated. in determining whether the con-
      sures to enable users of the company’s consolidated financial                tinuation or termination of a contract is expected to be the
      statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and un-                 most likely scenario, all relevant facts and circumstances relat-
      certainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with              ing to the contract are considered on an individual basis. for
      customers. ifrs 15 supersedes ias 11, construction contracts                 contracts expected to be continued, amounts already included
      and ias 18, revenue as well as related interpretations. the                  in revenue for which collectability ceases to be probable are
      ­standard is effective for annual ­periods beginning on or after             recognized as an expense. for contracts expected to be termi-
       january 1, 2017; early application is permitted. the company                nated, including terminations due to expected payment de-
       is currently assessing the impact of adopting ifrs 15 on the                faults of our customers or terminations due to force majeure
       ­company ’s consolidated financial statements and will deter-               events, the estimates on the scope of deliveries and services
        mine the adoption date as well as the transition method.                   provided under the contracts are revised accordingly, typically




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.   combined ­management report
262

resulting in a decrease of revenue in the respective reporting                                 non-current ­   assets and disposal groups classified as
­period. management of the operating divisions continually                                     held for disposal – assets held for disposal and disposal
 reviews all estimates ­involved in such construction contracts                                groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount
 and adjusts them as necessary.                                                                and their fair value less costs to sell. the determination of the
                                                                                               fair value less costs to sell includes the use of management
trade and other receivables – the allowance for doubtful                                       ­estimates and assumptions that tend to be uncertain.
accounts involves significant management judgment and
­review of individual receivables based on individual customer                                 employee benefit accounting – post-employment benefits –
 creditworthiness, current economic trends and analysis of                                     obligations for pension and other post-employment bene­fits
 ­historical bad debts on a portfolio basis. for the determination                             and related net p­ eriodic benefit costs are determined in accor-
  of the country-specific component of the individual allowance,                               dance with actuarial valuations. these valuations rely on key
  siemens also consider country credit ratings, which are cen-                                 assumptions including discount rates, expected compensation
  trally determined based on information from external rating                                  increases, rate of pension progression and mortality rates. the
  agencies. regarding the determination of the valuation allow-                                discount rate assumptions are determined by reference to
  ance derived from a portfolio-based analysis of historical bad                               yields on high-quality corporate bonds of appropriate duration
  debts, a decline of receivables in volume results in a corre-                                and currency at the end of the reporting ­period. in case such
  sponding reduction of such provisions and vice versa. as of                                  yields are not available discount rates are based on govern-
  september 30, 2014 and 2013, siemens recorded a total valua-                                 ment bonds yields. due to changing market, economic and
  tion allowance for trade and other receivables of € 1,073 million                            social conditions the underlying key assumptions may differ
  and € 1,147 million, respectively.                                                           from ­actual developments and may lead to significant changes
                                                                                               in pension and other post-employment benefit obligations.
impairment – siemens tests at least annually whether good-                                     such differences are recognized in full through line item other
will has incurred any impairment, in accordance with its                                       comprehensive income, net of income taxes in the ­period in
­
accounting policy. the determination of the recoverable                                        which they occur without affecting profit or loss.
amount of a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generat-
ing units to which goodwill is allocated involves the use of                                    provisions – significant estimates are involved in the determi-
­estimates by management. the outcome predicted by these                                        nation of provisions related to onerous contracts, warranty
 estimates is ­influenced e.g. by the successful integration of                                 costs, asset retirement obligations and legal proceedings.
 acquired entities, volatility of capital markets, interest rate                                a significant portion of the business of certain operating divi-
 developments, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the
 ­                                                                                              sions is performed pursuant to long-term contracts, often for
 ­outlook on economic trends. the recoverable amount is the                                     large ­projects, in germany and abroad, awarded on a competi-
  higher of the cash-generating unit’s or the group of cash-­                                   tive bidding basis. siemens records a provision for onerous
  generating units’ fair value less costs to sell and its value in                              sales contracts when current estimates of total contract costs
  use. the company generally uses discounted cash flow based                                    exceed expected contract revenue. such estimates are subject
  methods to determine these values. these discounted cash                                      to change based on new information as projects progress to-
  flow calculations use five-year projections that are based on                                 wards completion. onerous sales contracts are identified by
  financial forecasts. cash flow projections take into account                                  monitoring the progress of the project and updating the esti-
  past experience and represent management’s best estimate                                      mate of ­total contract costs which also requires significant
  about future developments. cash flows after the planning                                      judgment ­relating to achieving certain performance standards
  ­period are extrapolated using individual growth rates. key                                   as well as estimates involving warranty costs and estimates
   ­assumptions on which management has based its determina-                                    regarding project delays including the assessment of respon­
    tion of fair value less costs to sell and value in use include                              sibility splits between the contract partners for these delays.
    ­estimated growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and                               significant e­ stimates and assumptions are also involved in the
     tax rates. these estimates, including the methodology used,                                determination of provisions related to major asset retirement
     can have a material impact on the respective values and ulti-                              obligations. uncertainties surrounding the amount to be rec-
     mately the amount of any goodwill impairment. likewise,                                    ognized i­nclude, for example, the estimated costs of decom-
     whenever property, plant and equipment, other intangible                                   missioning because of the long time frame over which future
     ­assets and investments ­accounted for using the equity method                             cash outflows are expected to occur including the respective
      are tested for impairment, the determination of the ­assets’                              interest accretion. amongst others, the estimated cash out-
      ­recoverable amount involves the use of estimates by manage-                              flows could alter significantly if, and when, political develop-
       ment that can have a material impact on the respective values                            ments affect the government’s plans to develop the final
       and ultimately the amount of any impairment.                                            ­storage.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                   263
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      siemens is subject to legal and regulatory proceedings in vari-               note 4acquisitions, dispositions
      ous jurisdictions. such proceedings may result in criminal or                 and ­discontinued operations
      civil sanctions, penalties, damage claims and other claims, or
      disgorgements against the company. if it is more likely than                  a) acquisitions
      not that an obligation of the company exists and will result in               in september 2014, siemens has entered into an agreement
      an outflow of resources, a provision is recorded if the amount                with dresser-rand to acquire all of its issued and outstanding
      of the obligation can be reliably estimated. regulatory and                   common shares by way of a friendly takeover bid. with its com-
      ­legal proceedings as well as government investigations often                 prehensive portfolio of compressors, steam turbines, gas tur-
       involve complex legal issues and are subject to substantial un-              bines and engines, dresser-rand is a leading supplier for the
       certainties. accordingly, management exercises considerable                  oil & gas, process, power and other industries in the related
       judgment in determining whether there is a present obligation                ­energy infrastructure markets worldwide. the acquisition com-
       as a result of a past event at the end of the reporting p ­ eriod,            plements siemens’ existing offerings, notably for the global
       whether it is more likely than not that such a proceeding                     oil & gas industry and for distributed power generation.
       will result in an outflow of resources and whether the amount                 siemens offers us$ 83 per share in cash or us$ 6.5 billion in
       of the obligation can be reliably estimated. the company                      total if the transaction is closed prior to march 1, 2015 (€ 5.2 bil-
       ­periodically reviews the status of these proceedings with both               lion as of september 30, 2014). thereafter, the price increases
        inside and outside counsel. these judgments are subject to                   by us$ 0.55 per share or us$ 43 million (€ 34 million as of sep-
        change as new information becomes available. the required                    tember 30, 2014) on the first day of each month starting
        amount of a provision may change in the future due to new                    march 1, 2015 (ticking fee). as part of the transaction, siemens
        developments in the particular matter. revisions to estimates                will assume dresser-rand’s net debt, currently estimated at
        may significantly impact future net income. upon resolution,                 us$ 1.1 billion (€ 0.9 billion as of september 30, 2014), resulting
        siemens may incur charges in excess of the recorded provi-                   in a transaction volume without ticking fee of approximately
        sions for such matters. it cannot be excluded that the financial             us$ 7.6 billion (approximately € 6 billion as of september 30,
        position or results of operations of siemens will be materially               2014). the transaction is subject to approval by regulatory
        affected by an unfavorable outcome of legal or regulatory pro-               ­authorities. closing is expected in summer 2015.
        ceedings or government investigations.
                                                                                    at the beginning of may 2014, siemens announced the acquisi-
      income taxes – siemens operates in various tax jurisdictions                  tion of the rolls-royce energy aero-derivative gas turbine
      and therefore has to determine tax positions under respective                 and compressor business of rolls-royce plc, u.k. (rolls-royce).
      local tax laws and tax authorities’ views which can be complex                with the acquisition siemens intends to strengthen its position
      and subject to different interpretations of tax payers and local              in the growing oil and gas industry as well as in the field of
      tax authorities. as an effect of tax audits, different interpreta-            decentralized power generation. the preliminary purchase
      tions of tax laws may result in additional tax payments for prior             price amounts to £ 785 million (€ 1 billion as of september 30,
      years and are taken into account based on management’s                        2014). in addition, as part of the transaction, siemens will pay
      ­considerations. deferred tax a   ­ ssets are recognized if sufficient        rolls-royce £ 200 million (€ 257 million as of september 30,
       ­
       future taxable profit is available, including income from                    2014) for a 25 year technology licensing agreement granting
       ­forecasted operating earnings, the reversal of existing taxable             exclusive access to future rolls-royce aero-turbine technology
        ­temporary differences and established tax planning opportuni-              developments in the four to 85 megawatt power output range
         ties. as of each p    ­eriod-end, management evaluates the                 as well as preferred access to supply and engineering services
         recover­ability of deferred tax ­assets, based on projected future         of rolls-royce. the regulatory authorities approved the trans­
         taxable profits. as future developments are uncertain and                  action after fiscal year end. closing is expected in the first quar-
         partly ­beyond management’s control, assumptions are neces-                ter of fiscal 2015.
         sary to estimate future taxable profits as well as the p ­ eriod in
         which deferred tax ­assets will recover. estimates are revised in
         the ­period in which there is sufficient evidence to revise the
         assumption. if management considers it probable that all or a
         portion of a deferred tax asset cannot be realized, that portion
         would not be recognized.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.   combined ­management report
264

at the beginning of may 2013, siemens acquired all of the                                      that are not separable such as employee know-how and e  ­ xpected
shares of several entities constituting the rail automation busi-                              synergy effects. including earnings effects from purchase price
ness of invensys plc, u.k. (invensys), which were integrated                                   allocation and integration costs, the acquired business contrib-
in the infrastructure & cities sector’s mobility and logistics                                 uted revenues of €335 million and a net loss of €44 million to
­division. with the acquisition, siemens expanded and comple-                                  siemens for the p­ eriod from acquisition to september 30, 2013. if
 mented the infrastructure & cities sector’s rail automation busi-                             the acquired business had been included as of october 1, 2012,
 ness. the purchase price allocation was finalized in the third                                the impact on consolidated revenues and consolidated net in-
 quarter of fiscal 2014 following the final agreement on the pur-                              come for the twelve months ended september 30, 2013 would
 chase price and the completion of post-closing project reviews.                               have been €915 million and €(9) million, respectively.
 adjustments mainly relate to intangible a         ­ ssets, inventories,
 ­liabilities and deferred income tax liabilities. the final consid-                           at the beginning of january 2013, siemens acquired all of the
  eration amounts to € 2,024 million (including € 53 million cash                              shares in lms international nv, belgium, a leading provider of
  acquired) of which € 472 million were paid to the invensys                                   mechatronic simulation solutions, which was integrated in the
  ­pension trust. the following figures reflect the amounts re­c­                              industry sector’s industry automation division. the purchase
   ognized as of the acquisition date for each major class of ­assets                          price allocation was finalized in the second quarter of fiscal
   acquired and liabilities assumed: intangible ­assets €883 million,                          2014. no significant adjustments were made to the preliminary
   inventories €159 million, receivables €127 million, ­deferred in-                           purchase price allocation as of september 30, 2013. the final
   come tax a­ ssets €65 million, liabilities €537 million and deferred                         consideration amounts to € 702 million (including € 32 million
   income tax liabilities €116 million. intangible a­ ssets mainly relate                      cash acquired); € 352 million were allocated to goodwill which
   to customer relationships of €616 million with a useful life of                             comprises intangible ­assets that are not separable such as
   18 years and technology of €245 million with a useful life of                               ­employee know-how and expected synergy effects.
   18 years. goodwill of €1,315 million comprises intangible a    ­ ssets



b) dispositions and discontinued operations
assets and liabilities held for disposal
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amounts of
the major classes of ­assets and liabilities held for disposal were
as follows:



                                                                                                                                                               september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                   2014             2013
 trade and other receivables                                                                                                                           606             310
 inventories                                                                                                                                           479             340
 goodwill                                                                                                                                              846             187
                  ­ ssets
 other intangible a                                                                                                                                    246             111
 property, plant and equipment                                                                                                                         311             317
 investments previously accounted for using the equity method                                                                                       1,156                 –
 other financial ­assets                                                                                                                               132               72
 other ­assets                                                                                                                                         158               56
 assets classified as held for disposal                                                                                                             3,935            1,393


 trade payables                                                                                                                                        381             153
 current provisions                                                                                                                                    126               60
 other current liabilities                                                                                                                             856             183
 post employment benefits                                                                                                                              110               18
 other non-current liabilities                                                                                                                         123               59
 liabilities associated with ­assets classified as held for disposal                                                                                1,597              473




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                               265
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      ba) dispositions not qualifying for                                         metals technologies
      ­discontinued operations                                                    in may 2014, siemens signed an agreement to contribute
      bsh bosch und siemens hausgeräte gmbh (bsh)                                 nearly all of its metallurgical solutions business (business
      in september 2014, robert bosch gmbh and siemens agreed                     unit metals technologies), formerly included in the industry
      that robert bosch gmbh will acquire siemens’ 50 % stake in                  ­sector, into a joint venture with mitsubishi-hitachi metals
      the joint venture bsh. the transaction volume amounts to                     machinery inc., a company majority owned by mitsubishi
                                                                                   ­
      € 3.25 billion. the agreement includes the permission to pro-                heavy industries, ltd. as a result of this transaction, siemens
      duce and market household appliances under the siemens                       will lose control over its metallurgical solutions business
      brand over the long term as well as a distribution of € 250 mil-             upon closing. siemens will hold an equity interest of 49 %
      lion from bsh prior to the completion of the transaction. the                in the new company which will be accounted for using the
      transaction is subject to approval by the regulatory authorities.            equity method. the transaction is subject to approval by
                                                                                   ­
      closing is expected in the first half of calendar year 2015.                 the regulatory authorities. closing is ­expected in the second
      siemens’ stake in bsh is presented as held for disposal since                ­quarter of fiscal 2015. the respective metallurgical solutions
      the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. no impairment was identified               business (the disposal group) is presented as held for disposal
      either upon reclassification or at year end.                                  and discontinued operations since the third quarter of fiscal
                                                                                    2014. no impairment was identified either upon reclassifica-
      microbiology business                                                         tion or at year end.
      in july 2014, siemens signed an agreement to sell its micro­
      biology business of the healthcare sector to beckman coulter                bd) discontinued operations: closed transactions
      inc., a subsidiary of danaher corporation. the activities of the            the results presented in income (loss) from discontinued oper-
      microbiology business include systems for the identification                ations in the company ’s consolidated statements of income
      and antibiotic susceptibility testing of micro­organisms. the               also include the results of businesses that have been disposed
      regulatory authorities approved the trans­action. closing is ex-            of prior to the end of fiscal 2014.
      pected in the first half of fiscal 2015. the microbiology business
      (the disposal group) is presented as held for disposal since the            water technologies
      third quarter of fiscal 2014. no impairment was identified                  the water technologies business unit, formerly included in the
      ­either upon reclassification or at year end.                               industry sector, is presented as held for disposal and discontin-
                                                                                  ued operations since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. in octo-
      bb) dispositions not qualifying for discontinued                            ber 2013, siemens signed an agreement to sell the disposal
      operations: closed transactions                                             group to funds managed by american european associates
      turbocare business                                                          ­investors lp, u.s. on january 15, 2014, siemens closed the
      in may 2014, the turbocare business unit of the energy sec-                  transaction for a preliminary cash consideration of € 612 mil-
      tor – which was previously presented as held for disposal – was              lion. assets and liabilities held for disposal of € 794 million and
      contributed into a joint venture with john wood group plc.                   of € 214 million, respectively, were derecognized upon closing.
      the joint venture is a service provider of rotating equipment                the major classes of ­assets held for disposal were property,
      ­services to the industry, with a focus on power and oil & gas               plant and equipment of € 164 million, goodwill of € 154 million,
       markets. siemens’ interest in the new company is accounted                  inventories of € 136 million, trade and other receivables of
       for using the equity method.                                                € 125 million, and cash and cash equivalents of € 75 million.

      bc) discontinued operations                                                 osram, siemens it solutions and services,
      customer solutions health services                                          siemens vdo automotive and communications
      in august 2014, siemens announced its plans to sell its hospital            net results from discontinued operations of osram, siemens
      information system business (customer solutions health ser-                 it solutions and services, siemens vdo automotive and the
      vices business unit), formerly included in the healthcare sec-              former operating segment communications presented in the
      tor, to the us-based company cerner corp. for a consideration               consolidated statements of income in fiscal 2014 and 2013
      of us$ 1.3 billion (€ 1 billion as of september 30, 2014) in cash.          amounted to € 89 million (thereof € 66 million income tax) and
      the regulatory authorities approved the transaction. closing                € 222 million (thereof €(165) million income tax), respectively.
      is ­expected in the second quarter of fiscal 2015. the hospital             net results from discontinued operations in fiscal 2013 include
      ­information system business (the disposal group) is presented              € 277 million relating to osram, thereof the pretax spin-off gain
       as held for disposal and discontinued operations since the                 of € 54 million. income tax in fiscal 2014 and 2013 includes
       fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. no impairment was identified                € 64 million and €(80) million, respectively, related to former
       ­either upon reclassification or at year end.                              communications activities.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.   combined ­management report
266

income (loss) from discontinued operations                                                       ­ anufacturer. in the second quarter of fiscal 2014, siemens
                                                                                                 m
in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the major line items of income from                                     started to report results related to its stake in bsh using the
discontinued operations were as follows:                                                         equity method in phase with results of siemens, rather than
                                                                                                 with the lag of one quarter. due to the one-time catch-up effect
                                                                                                 associated with this change, item share of profit (loss), net for
                                                               year ended september 30,          fiscal 2014 therefore ­includes results related to bsh for approx-
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014           2013        imately five quarters rather than the usual four. this one-time
 revenue                                                          2,951            7,757         catch-up effect increased the income from siemens’ invest-
 expenses                                                         (2,916)         (7,501)        ment in bsh by € 59 million. at the end of the fourth quarter of
 income on the measurement to fair value less                                                    fiscal 2014, bsh was classified as held for disposal and the use
 costs to sell or on the disposal of the disposal
                                                                                                 of the equity method was ceased.
 groups constituting the discontinued operations                       23             129
 pretax income from discontinued operations                            57             385
 income taxes on ordinary activities                                   41            (174)
                                                                                                 item share of profit (loss), net, also includes siemens’ share in
 income taxes on the income on the measure­
                                                                                                 bwi informationstechnik gmbh’s (bwi it) earnings of € 55 mil-
 ment to fair value less costs to sell or on the                                                 lion and € 69 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013.
 disposal of the disposal groups constituting
 the discontinued operations                                            9              20
                                                                                                 items share of profit (loss), net, gains (losses) on sales, net and
 income from discontinued operations,
 net of income taxes                                                  108             231        impairment and reversals of impairment include the effects
  thereof attributable to the shareholders of                                                   of disposing of siemens’ share in nsn in the fourth quarter of
   siemens ag                                                         107             225        ­fiscal 2013. in fiscal 2013, item impairment and reversals of
                                                                                                  ­impairment includes €(97) million related to an investment of
                                                                                                   siemens’ solar business.

                                                                                                 b) associates
note 5      interests in other entities                                                          as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amount of all
                                                                                                 individually not material associates amounts to € 1,417 million
for information on the composition of the siemens group refer                                    and € 1,483 million, respectively. summarized financial infor-
to the list of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in                                mation for all individually not material associates adjusted
fiscal 2014 in      note 41 list of subsidiaries and associated                                  for the percentage of ownership held by siemens, is presented
­c ompanies pursuant to section 313 para. 2 of the german com­                                   ­below. items included in the statements of comprehensive
mercial code and               note 4 acquisitions, dispositions and dis-                         ­income are presented for the twelve month ­period applied
continued operations .                                                                             ­under the equity method.

investments accounted for
using the equity method                                                                                                                                    year ended september 30,
a) income (loss) from investments accounted                                                        (in millions of €)                                            2014         2013
for using the equity method, net                                                                   income (loss) from continuing operations                      102          163
                                                                                                   income (loss) from discontinued operations                     22             –
                                                                                                   other comprehensive income,
                                                                                                   net of income taxes                                           (52)          (33)
                                                               year ended september 30,
                                                                                                   total comprehensive income                                     71          130
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014           2013
 share of profit (loss), net                                          575             247
 gains (losses) on sales, net                                           6              78
 impairment and reversals of impairment                                 1             185
 income (loss) from investments accounted                                                        the carrying amount of all individually not material associates
 for using the equity method, net                                     582             510
                                                                                                 includes the carrying amount of bwi it, amounting to € 131 mil-
                                                                                                 lion and € 154 million as of september 30, 2014 and 2013.
                                                                                                 siemens holds a 50.05 % stake in bwi it. bwi it is not controlled
                                                                                                 by siemens due to significant participating rights of the two
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, siemens has one principal                                     other shareholders. together with the herkules obliga-
joint venture, bsh bosch und siemens hausgeräte gmbh                                             tions disclosed in    note 27, commitments and contingencies ,

                                                 ­ ppliances
(bsh), munich, germany which is a worldwide home a                                               the company ’s maximum exposure to loss from bwi it as of




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                      267
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   252   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      330   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      s
      ­ eptember 30, 2014 and 2013 amounts to € 1,621 million and                         interest income, interest expenses
                                                                                     note 8
      € 2,044 million. bwi it finances its operations on its own.                    and other financial income (expenses),
      the accumulated unrecognized share of losses in associates                     net
      amounts to € 84 million and € 11 million, respectively, as of
      ­september 30, 2014 and 2013. within fiscal 2014 and 2013 the
       ­
       unrecognized share of losses amounts to € 74 million and                                                                                 year ended september 30,
       € 11 million.                                                                      (in millions of €)                                          2014         2013
                                                                                          interest income from post-employment
      c) joint ventures                                                                   ­benefits                                                      1            3

      as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amount of all                       interest income other than from
                                                                                          ­post-employment benefits                                 1,058          944
      individually not material joint ventures amounts to € 710 mil-
                                                                                          interest income                                           1,058          947
      lion and € 393 million, respectively. summarized financial infor-
                                                                                          interest expenses from
      mation for all individually not material joint ventures adjusted                    post-employment benefits                                   (295)        (294)
      for the percentage of ownership held by siemens, is presented                       interest expenses other than ­from
      below. items in the statements of comprehensive income                              post-employment benefits                                   (469)        (490)
      are presented for the twelve month ­period applied under the                        interest expenses                                          (764)        (784)
      ­equity method of accounting.                                                       income (expenses) from available-for-sale
                                                                                          ­financial ­assets, net                                      45           (80)
                                                                                          miscellaneous financial income (expenses), net             (221)          (74)
                                                                                          other financial income (expenses), net                     (177)        (154)
                                                    year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                  2014           2013
       income (loss) from continuing operations             30             (33)
       other comprehensive income,
       net of income taxes                                 (72)              4
                                                                                     total amounts of item interest income and (expense), other
       total comprehensive income                          (42)            (30)
                                                                                     than from post-employment benefits, were as follows:



                                                                                                                                                year ended september 30,
                                                                                          (in millions of €)                                          2014         2013
      note 6      other operating income                                                  interest income other than from
                                                                                          post-employment benefits                                  1,058          944
                                                                                          interest expenses other than from
      in fiscal 2014 and 2013, other operating income includes gains
                                                                                          ­post-employment benefits                                  (469)        (490)
      on sales of property, plant and equipment and intangible a   ­ ssets
                                                                                          interest income (expenses), net, other than
      of € 355 million and € 227 million, respectively, including gains                   from post-employment benefits                               589          454
      from real estate sold and leased back; gains from the sale of                        thereof: interest income (expenses)
      businesses of € 143 million and € 10 million, respectively; as well                   of operations, net                                        (17)           (2)
      as income in connection with legal and regulatory matters.                           thereof: other interest income (expenses),
                                                                                            net                                                       606           455



      note 7      other operating expenses
      other operating expenses in fiscal 2014 and 2013 include losses                item interest income (expense) of operations, net includes
      on sales of property, plant and equipment and intangible ­assets,              ­interest income and expense primarily related to receivables
      impairment losses on goodwill and effects from insurance, legal                 from customers and payables to suppliers, interest on advances
      and regulatory matters.                                                         from customers and advanced financing of customer contracts.
                                                                                      item other interest income (expense), net includes all other
                                                                                      interest amounts primarily consisting of interest relating to
                                                                                      corporate debt, and related hedging activities, as well as inter-
                                                                                      est income on corporate ­assets.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.     corporate ­governance                           171   c.     combined ­management report
268

item interest income (expense) other than from post-employ-                                       note 9       income taxes
ment benefits includes the following with respect to financial
­assets (financial liabilities) not at fair value through profit or                               income from continuing operations before income tax is attrib-
 loss:                                                                                            utable to the following geographic regions:



                                                               year ended september 30,                                                                     year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014            2013          (in millions of €)                                             2014        2013
 total interest income on financial ­assets                       1,050                931          germany                                                       2,295      1,304
 total interest expenses on financial liabilites                      (643)           (766)         foreign                                                       5,132      4,509
                                                                                                                                                                  7,427      5,813




the components of item income (expense) from available-for-
sale financial ­assets, net were as follows:                                                      income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following:



                                                               year ended september 30,                                                                     year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014            2013          (in millions of €)                                             2014        2013
 dividends received                                                     16              18          current tax:
 gains on sales, net                                                    40              17           german corporation and trade taxes                            469         542
 impairment                                                            (11)           (117)          foreign income taxes                                         1,253      1,212
 other                                                                   –                2                                                                       1,722      1,754
 income (expenses) from available-for-sale                                                          deferred tax:
 financial ­assets, net                                                 45             (80)          germany                                                       207         256
                                                                                                     foreign                                                        99        (376)
                                                                                                                                                                   306        (120)
                                                                                                    income tax expenses                                           2,028      1,634

item miscellaneous financial income (expense), net, in fiscal
2014 and 2013, includes gains (losses) of €(293) million and
€ 95 million, respectively, from the accretion of provisions
and the increase (decrease) in the discount rate, as well as                                      the current income tax expenses in fiscal 2014 and 2013
­expenses as a result of allowances and write offs of finance                                     ­include adjustments recognized for current tax of prior years
 ­receivables, net of reversals of € 40 million and € 80 million,                                  in the amount of € 106 million and € 87 million, respectively.
  ­respectively. furthermore, gains (losses) related to derivative                                 the current tax expense in 2013 is positively impacted by the
   ­financial instruments are included.                                                            closing of a mutual agreement procedure regarding transfer
                                                                                                   prices between germany and the u.s. leading to an increase
changes in the fair value of warrants issued together with                                         of german current taxes and an overcompensating decrease of
us$ 3 billion bonds in fiscal 2012 resulted in a pretax loss of                                    foreign income taxes.
€ 42 million and a pretax gain of € 11 million, respectively, in fis-
cal 2014 and 2013. in fiscal 2014, the fair value increased mainly                                the deferred tax expense (benefit) in fiscal 2014 and 2013
due to an increase in the underlying siemens and osram share                                      ­includes tax effects of the origination and reversal of tempo-
prices as well as increased implied volatilities. the gain (loss)                                  rary differences of € 119 million and €(302) million, respectively.
is disclosed in other financial income (expenses), net and in                                      the german deferred tax expense in fiscal 2014 and 2013 is
­corporate items for segment reporting purposes.                                                   mainly related to the utilization of tax loss carryforwards,
                                                                                                   partly compensated by tax effects in connection with positive
                                                                                                   appeal ­proceedings in 2014.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                               337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                       269
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   252    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      330    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      in germany, the calculation of current tax is based on a corpo-                                             ­ ssets and liabilities on a gross basis are
                                                                                              deferred income tax a
      rate tax rate of 15 % and a solidarity surcharge thereon of 5.5 %,                      summarized as follows:
      for all distributed and retained earnings. in addition to corpo-
      rate taxation, trade tax is levied on profits earned in germany.
      as the german trade tax is a non deductible expense, the aver-                                                                                                      september 30,
      age trade tax rate amounts to 15 % and the combined total tax                                (in millions of €)                                              2014           2013
      rate results in 31 %. deferred tax ­assets and liabilities are mea-                          assets:
      sured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the p ­ eriod when                           non-current ­assets                                            433            547
      the asset is realized or the liability is settled.                                            inventories and receivables                                  1,445          1,240
                                                                                                    post-employment benefits                                     3,112          2,954
      for foreign subsidiaries, current taxes are calculated based on                               liabilities                                                  3,991          3,699
      the local tax laws and applicable tax rates in the individual for-                            other                                                          229            282
      eign countries. deferred tax a ­ ssets and liabilities are measured                           tax loss and credit carryforward                               706            918
      at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the p    ­ eriod when                            deferred tax ­assets                                       9,915          9,640

      the asset is realized or the liability is settled.                                           liabilities:
                                                                                                    non-current ­assets                                          2,185          2,452
      income tax expense (current and deferred) differs from the                                    inventories and receivables                                  3,882          3,476
      amounts computed by applying a combined statutory german                                      liabilities                                                    787            670
      income tax rate of 31 % as follows:                                                           other                                                          280            312
                                                                                                      deferred tax liabilities                                   7,133          6,910
                                                                                                   total deferred tax ­assets, net                               2,782          2,730
                                                            year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                          2014            2013
       expected income tax expenses                            2,302             1,802
        increase (decrease) in income taxes resulting                                        in assessing the realizability of deferred tax ­assets, manage-
         from:
                                                                                              ment considers the extent to which it is probable that the
          non-deductible losses and expenses                       282             377
                                                                                              ­deferred tax asset will be realized. the ultimate realization of
         tax-free income                                           (236)          (343)
                                                                                               deferred tax a  ­ ssets is dependent upon the generation of future
          taxes for prior years                                      78              56
                                                                                               taxable profits during the ­periods in which those temporary
                                                  ­ ssets
         change in realizability of deferred tax a
          and tax credits                                            11              21
                                                                                               differences and tax loss carryforwards become deductible.
          change in tax rates                                        (1)            (31)       management considers the expected reversal of deferred tax
          foreign tax rate differential                            (244)          (175)        liabilities and projected future taxable income in making this
         tax effect of investments accounted                                                  assessment. based upon the level of historical taxable income
          for using the equity method                              (163)            (74)       and projections for future taxable income over the ­periods in
         other, net                                                  (1)              1        which the deferred tax ­assets are deductible, management
       actual income tax expenses                              2,028             1,634         ­believes it is probable the company will realize the benefits
                                                                                                of these deductible differences. as of september 30, 2014,
                                                                                                the company has certain tax losses subject to significant lim­
                                                                                                itations. for those losses deferred tax a    ­ ssets are not recog-
      the tax free income in fiscal 2014 is impacted by several port­                           nized, as it is not probable that gains will be generated to offset
      folio activities, whereas 2013 is amongst others attributable to                          those losses.
      the nsn disposal.
                                                                                              as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the company had
                                                                                              € 2,425 mil­lion and € 3,341 million, respectively of gross tax loss
                                                                                              carryforwards. the company assumes that future operations
                                                                                              will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred
                                                                                              tax ­assets.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                         131    b.     corporate ­governance                                 171   c.   combined ­management report
270

deferred tax ­assets have not been recognized with respect of                                     note 10                                     ­ ssets
                                                                                                                 available-for-sale financial a
the following items (gross amounts):
                                                                                                  the following tables summarize the current portion of the
                                                                                                  company’s investment in available-for-sale financial ­assets:
                                                                             september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014            2013
 deductible temporary differences                                     155              150                                                                              september 30, 2014
 tax loss carryforward                                                760              941                                          cost         fair value     unrealized        unrealized
                                                                                                                                                                      gain               loss
                                                                      915           1,091           (in millions of €)
                                                                                                    equity instruments                  1                 1               –                –
                                                                                                    debt instruments                693                702                9                –
                                                                                                    fund shares                     195                222               28                –
                                                                                                                                    888                925               37                –
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, € 152 million and € 221 mil-
lion, respectively the major part of the unrecognized tax loss
carryforwards expire over the ­periods to 2018.

the company has ongoing regular tax audits concerning open
                                                                                                                                                                        september 30, 2013
income tax years in a number of jurisdictions. adequate provi-
                                                                                                                                    cost         fair value     unrealized        unrealized
sions for all open tax years have been foreseen. the company                                                                                                          gain               loss
                                                                                                    (in millions of €)
has applied for several mutual agreement procedures to avoid                                        equity instruments                  6                 8               2                –
double taxation.                                                                                    debt instruments                378                382                3                –
                                                                                                    fund shares                     195                211               16                –
the company recorded deferred tax liabilities for income taxes                                                                      580                601               21               (1)
and foreign withholding taxes on future dividend distributions
from subsidiaries which are actually intended to be repatriated.
apart from this liability, the company has not recognized de-
ferred tax liabilities for income taxes or foreign withholding
taxes on the cumulative earnings of subsidiaries of € 21,115 mil-                                 non-current available-for-sale financial a   ­ ssets, which are in-
lion and € 19,214 million, respectively in fiscal 2014 and 2013                                   cluded in line item other financial a  ­ ssets are measured at fair
because the earnings are intended to be permanently rein-                                         value, if reliably measurable. they primarily consist of equity
vested in the subsidiaries.                                                                       in­stru­ments, including shares in atos and in osram. as of
                                                                                                  ­
                                                                                                  september 30, 2014 and 2013 non-current available-for-sale
including the items charged or credited directly to equity                                        ­financial a­ ssets measured at cost amount to € 192 million and
and the expense (benefit) from continuing and discontinued                                         € 167 million, respectively; non-current available-for-sale finan-
operations, the income tax expense (benefit) consists of the                                       cial ­assets measured at fair value amount to € 1,611 million and
following:                                                                                         € 1,394 million, respectively. unrealized gains (losses) in fiscal
                                                                                                   2014 and 2013 resulting from non-current available-for-sale
                                                                                                              ­ ssets at fair value were € 317 million and € 401 mil-
                                                                                                   finan­cial a
                                                               year ended september 30,            lion, respectively.
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014            2013
 continuing operations                                            2,028             1,634
 discontinued operations                                               (50)            154        note 11       trade and other receivables
 income and expenses recognized directly
 in equity                                                            (346)            738
                                                                  1,632             2,526
                                                                                                                                                                               september 30,
                                                                                                    (in millions of €)                                                  2014            2013
                                                                                                    trade receivables from the sale of goods
                                                                                                    and services                                                      12,537        12,932
                                                                                                    receivables from finance leases                                    1,988         1,921
                                                                                                                                                                      14,526        14,853




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                               337   e.       additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                271
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   252    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      330    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      changes to the valuation allowance of current and long-term                           minimum future lease payments to be received are as follows:
      receivables presented in       note 11, 12 and 18 , which belong to

                             ­ ssets measured at (amortized) cost are as
      the class of financial a
      follows (excluding receivables from finance leases):                                                                                                        september 30,
                                                                                                 (in millions of €)                                        2014           2013
                                                                                                 within one year                                         2,406          2,318
                                                        year ended september 30,                 after one year but not more than five years             3,393          3,406
       (in millions of €)                                      2014              2013            more than five years                                      233            214
       valuation allowance as of beginning                                                                                                               6,033          5,938
       of fiscal year                                      1,023               1,056
       increase in valuation allowances recorded in
       the consolidated statements of income in the
       current ­period                                           62              205
       write-offs charged against the allowance                (126)            (208)       the following table shows a reconciliation of minimum future
       recoveries of amounts previously written-off                  6              9       lease payments to the gross and net investment in leases and
       foreign exchange translation differences                      5            (38)      to the present value of the minimum future lease payments
       reclassifications to line item assets held for                                       receivable:
       disposal and dispositions of those entities              (33)                 –
       valuation allowance as of fiscal year-end               938             1,023

                                                                                                                                                                  september 30,
                                                                                                 (in millions of €)                                        2014           2013
                                                                                                 minimum future lease payments                           6,033          5,938
      in fiscal 2014 and 2013, receivables from finance leases, current                          plus: unguaranteed residual values                         91              97
      amount to € 1,988 million and € 1,921 million, respectively; the                           gross investment in leases                              6,124          6,034
      long-term portion amounts to € 3,357 million and € 3,340 mil-                              less: unearned finance income                            (643)           (649)
      lion, respectively. the valuation allowance on current and long-                           net investment in leases                                5,481          5,385
      term receivables from finance leases changed as follows:                                   less: allowance for doubtful accounts                    (135)           (124)
                                                                                                 less: present value of unguaranteed residual
                                                                                                 value                                                     (80)            (85)
                                                                                                  present value of minimum future lease
                                                        year ended september 30,                 ­payments receivable                                    5,266          5,176
       (in millions of €)                                      2014              2013
       valuation allowance as of beginning
       of fiscal year                                          124               134
       increase in valuation allowances recorded in                                         the gross investment in leases and the present value of mini-
       the consolidated statements of income in the
       current ­period                                           47                35       mum future lease payments receivable are due as follows:
       write-offs charged against the allowance                 (46)              (47)
       recoveries of amounts previously written-off                  5              5
       foreign exchange translation differences                      5             (4)                                                                            september 30,

        reclassifications to and from line item                                                  (in millions of €)                                        2014           2013
       ­assets held for disposal and dispositions                                                gross investment in leases                              6,124          6,034
       of those entities                                             –              –
                                                                                                  within one year                                        2,433          2,345
       valuation allowance as of fiscal year-end               135               124
                                                                                                  one to five years                                      3,449          3,472
                                                                                                  thereafter                                               242            218
                                                                                                 present value of minimum future lease
                                                                                                 ­payments receivable                                    5,266          5,176
                                                                                                  within one year                                        2,013          1,946
                                                                                                  one to five years                                      3,037          3,035
                                                                                                  thereafter                                               215            195




      108   a.   to our shareholders                     131    b.       corporate ­governance                           171   c.   combined ­management report
272

investments in finance leases primarily relate to industrial                                     item costs and earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted
­machinery, medical equipment, transportation systems, equip-                                    contracts relates to construction contracts, with net asset bal-
 ment for information technology and office machines. actual                                     ances where contract costs plus recognized profits less recog-
 cash flows will vary from contractual maturities due to future                                  nized losses exceed progress billings. construction contracts,
 sales of finance receivables, prepayments and write-offs.                                       here and as follows, include service contracts accounted for
                                                                                                 under the percentage of completion method. liabilities from
                                                                                                 contracts for which progress billings exceed costs and recog-
note 12      other current financial ­assets                                                     nized profits less recognized losses are recognized in line item
                                                                                                 other current liabilities.

                                                                            september 30,        the aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognized profits
 (in millions of €)                                                  2014            2013        less recognized losses for construction contracts in progress,
 derivative financial instruments                                    458              435        as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 amounted to € 86,140 mil-
 loans receivable                                                2,111             1,861         lion and € 79,296 million, respectively. revenue from construc-
 other                                                           1,141                954        tion contracts amounted to € 29,735 million and € 30,441 mil-
                                                                 3,710             3,250         lion, respectively, for fiscal 2014 and 2013.

                                                                                                 advance payments received on construction contracts in prog-
                                                                                                 ress were € 7,704 million and € 8,239 million as of septem-
                                                                                                 ber 30, 2014 and 2013. retentions in connection with construc-
note 13      inventories                                                                         tion contracts were € 245 million and € 452 million in fiscal 2014
                                                                                                 and 2013, respectively.

                                                                            september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                  2014            2013        note 14       other current ­assets
 raw materials and supplies                                      2,389             2,476
 work in process                                                 3,436             3,502
 costs and earnings in excess of billings                                                                                                                                september 30,
 on uncompleted contracts                                        8,329             8,604
                                                                                                   (in millions of €)                                             2014           2013
 finished goods and products held for resale                     2,312             2,311
                                                                                                   miscellaneous tax receivables                                  707            735
 advances to suppliers                                               528              707
                                                                                                   prepaid expenses                                               229            227
                                                                16,994            17,601
                                                                                                   other                                                          354            335
 advance payments received                                      (1,895)           (2,040)
                                                                                                                                                                 1,290         1,297
                                                                15,100            15,560




cost of sales include inventories recognized as expense
amounting to € 49,453 million and € 52,039 million, respec-
tively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013. raw materials and supplies, work
in process as well as finished goods and products held for re-
sale are valued at the lower of acquisition or production cost
and net realizable value. the respective write-downs, as com-
pared to prior year, increased by € 1 million and € 39 million as
of september 30, 2014 and 2013.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                         273
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5     consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6     notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7     supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      note 15      goodwill

                                                                                                                                                                year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                     2014                  2013
       cost
       balance at beginning of year                                                                                                                       19,564                18,517
       translation differences and other                                                                                                                      777                  (697)
       acquisitions and purchase accounting adjustments                                                                                                        60                 1,719
                                             ­ ssets classified as held for disposal
       dispositions and reclassifications to a                                                                                                               (856)                    25
       balance at year-end                                                                                                                                19,546                19,564


       accumulated impairment losses and other changes
       balance at beginning of year                                                                                                                         1,681                 1,448
       translation differences and other                                                                                                                       82                    (66)
                                               ­ eriod
       impairment losses recognized during the p                                                                                                                 5                    70
                                             ­ ssets classified as held for disposal
       dispositions and reclassifications to a                                                                                                                  (5)                 229
       balance at year-end                                                                                                                                  1,763                 1,681


       carrying amount
       balance at beginning of year                                                                                                                       17,883                17,069
       balance at year-end                                                                                                                                17,783                17,883




                                           carrying amount as                translation        acquisitions and              dispositions,           impairments     carrying amount as
                                                 of 10/01/2013              ­differences   ­purchase accounting     ­reclassifications incl.                                of 09/30/2014
                                                                              and other            adjustments            reclassifications
                                                                                                                   to ­assets classified as
       (in millions of €)                                                                                                held for disposal

       sectors
        energy                                         2,606                        71                      14                           (2)                     –                2,688
        healthcare                                     7,950                       373                        7                      (426)                      (4)               7,900
        industry                                       4,276                       147                       (1)                     (419)                       –                4,003
        infrastructure & cities                        2,930                        99                      36                           (3)                    (1)               3,061
       total sectors                                  17,761                       691                      55                       (851)                      (5)             17,651
        financial services (sfs)                         122                          5                       4                           –                      –                  132
       siemens                                        17,883                       696                      60                       (851)                      (5)             17,783




                                           carrying amount as                translation        acquisitions and              dispositions,           impairments     carrying amount as
                                                 of 10/01/2012              ­differences   ­purchase accounting     ­reclassifications incl.                                of 09/30/2013
                                                                              and other            adjustments            reclassifications
                                                                                                                   to ­assets classified as
       (in millions of €)                                                                                                held for disposal

       sectors
        energy                                         2,718                       (61)                       5                        (34)                   (23)                2,606
        healthcare                                     8,314                     (362)                       (3)                          –                      –                7,950
        industry                                       4,173                     (146)                     418                       (169)                       –                4,276
        infrastructure & cities                        1,742                       (65)                  1,299                            –                   (47)                2,930
       total sectors                                  16,949                     (633)                   1,719                       (204)                    (70)              17,761
        financial services (sfs)                         121                          2                       –                           –                      –                  122
       siemens                                        17,069                     (632)                   1,719                       (204)                    (70)              17,883




      108   a.   to our shareholders                             131   b.   corporate ­governance                                171    c.     combined ­management report
274

siemens performs the mandatory annual impairment test                                                      the fair value less costs to sell is mainly driven by the terminal
in the three months ended september 30. the recoverable                                                    value which is particularly sensitive to changes in the assump-
amounts for the annual impairment test 2014 for divisions or                                             tions on the terminal value growth rate and discount rate. both
equivalents were generally estimated to be higher than the                                               assumptions are determined individually for each division or
­carrying amounts. key assumptions on which management                                                   equivalent. discount rates reflect the current market assess-
 has based its determinations of the fair value less costs to sell                                       ment of the risks specific to each division or equivalent and are
 for the divisions’ or equivalents’ carrying amount include ter-                                         based on the weighted average cost of capital for the divisions
 minal value growth rates up to 2.9 % in fiscal 2014 and 2.3 % in                                        or equivalents (for sfs the discount rate represents cost of
fiscal 2013, respectively and after-tax discount rates of 6.5 % to                                       ­equity). terminal value growth rates take into consideration
9.0 % in fiscal 2014 and 6.0 % to 10.8 % in fiscal 2013. where pos-                                       external macroeconomic sources of data and industry
 sible, reference to market prices is made.                                                               ­specific trends.

 for the purpose of estimating the fair value less costs to sell of                                      the following table presents the key assumptions used to
the divisions or equivalents, cash flows were projected for                                              ­
                                                                                                         determine fair value less costs to sell for impairment test
the next five years based on past experience, actual operating                                           ­purposes for the divisions to which a significant amount of
­results and management’s best estimate about future develop-                                             goodwill is allocated:
 ments as well as market assumptions. the determined fair
 value of the divisions or equivalents is assigned to level 3 of
 the fair value hierarchy.




                                                                                                      year ended september 30, 2014                                  year ended september 30, 2013
                                                                                     goodwill       terminal value after-tax discount               goodwill     terminal value after-tax discount
 (in millions of €)                                                                                    growth rate                rate                              growth rate                rate

 diagnostics of the healthcare sector                                                  4,765                2.4 %               6.5 %                4,758                 2.3 %               6.0 %
 industry automation of the industry sector                                            3,105                1.7 %               8.5 %                2,986                 1.7 %               8.5 %
 imaging & therapy systems of the healthcare sector                                    2,603                2.2 %               7.5 %                2,483                 2.2 %               7.5 %




in fiscal 2013, an impairment loss of € 46 million resulted from
the logistics and airport solutions business of the mobility &
logistics division of the infrastructure & cities sector.



note 16      other intangible ­assets

                                         gross carrying        translation            additions        additions    retirements 1 gross carrying      accumulated         carrying      amortization
                                          amount as of         differences              through                                   amount as of        amortization     amount as of      and impair­
                                            10/01/2013                                 ­business                                    09/30/2014                 and      09/30/2014      ment in fiscal
 (in millions of €)                                                               ­combinations                                                        ­impairment                              2014

 software and other internally
 generated intangible ­assets                    3,346                 111                      –           312         (1,019)           2,750            (1,526)              1,224           (183)
 patents, licenses
 and similar rights                              8,070                 277                  21               78            (370)          8,077            (4,741)              3,336           (558)
 other intangible ­assets                       11,415                 388                  21              390         (1,389)          10,826            (6,266)              4,560           (741)


       1 includes other intangible ­assets reclassified to assets
          classified as held for disposal and dispositions of those
          entities.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                           337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                         275
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                         252   d.5     consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income          254   d.6     notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position            330   d.7     supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                gross carrying       translation             additions         additions      retire­ments 1 gross carrying          accumulated           carrying     amortization
                                                amount as of         differences               through                                       amount as of            amortization      amount as of      and impair­
                                                   10/01/2012                                 ­business                                        09/30/2013                     and        09/30/2013     ment in fiscal
       (in millions of €)                                                                ­combinations                                                                ­impairment                              2013 2

       software and other internally
       generated intangible a
                            ­ ssets                     3,270                  (78)                   2               265             (114)                3,346           (2,104)           1,241                (224)
       patents, licenses
       and similar rights                               7,154                (253)              1,363                  65             (259)                8,070           (4,254)           3,816                (648)
       other intangible a
                        ­ ssets                       10,424                 (332)              1,365                 330             (372)               11,415           (6,358)           5,057                (873)


             1 includes other intangible ­assets reclassified to assets           2 includes impairment expenses of € 53 million in fis­
                classified as held for disposal and dispositions of those             cal 2013, thereof € 25 million at infrastructure & cities,
                entities.                                                             € 19 million at energy, € 8 million at industry and
                                                                                      € 2 ­million at healthcare.




      amortization and impairment on intangible a   ­ ssets is contained                                          as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, contractual commitments
      in line items cost of sales, research and development expenses                                                                                ­ ssets amount to € 18 million
                                                                                                                  for purchases of other intangible a
      or selling and general administrative expenses, depending on                                                and € 14 million.
      the use of the asset.



      note 17      property, plant and equipment

                                                        gross    translation             additions        additions       reclassi­         retire­              gross         accumu­       carrying       deprecia­
                                                    ­carrying    differences              through                         fications         ments 1          ­carrying     lated depre­    amount as         tion and
                                                     ­amount                              business                                                            amount         ciation and           of    ­impairment
                                                        as of                              combi­                                                                as of      impairment     09/30/2014         in fiscal
       (in millions of €)                         10/01/2013                               nations                                                         09/30/2014                                           2014 2

       land and buildings                             7,677                 136                (7)            155             128             (733)            7,356           (3,489)         3,868              (242)
       technical machinery and
       equipment                                      7,020                 122                  4            277             239             (521)            7,140           (4,687)         2,453              (456)
       furniture and office
       ­equipment                                     5,740                 106                  2            608               81            (751)            5,786           (4,440)         1,347              (653)
       equipment leased to others                     2,936                 104                  –            371                 1           (485)            2,927           (1,705)         1,222              (316)
       advances to suppliers and
       construction in progress                          710                  7                  –            516            (449)                 (25)            760 3           (10)          750                  –
       property, plant and
       ­equipment                                   24,083                  475                  –          1,927                 –        (2,515)            23,968         (14,330)          9,638             (1,666)


             1 includes property, plant and equipment reclassified to             2 includes impairment expenses of € 29 million in fiscal              3 includes € 670 million expenditures for property,
                assets classified as held for disposal and dispositions of            2014, therein € 19 million at sre.                                     plant and equipment under construction.
                those entities.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                                         131    b.     corporate ­governance                                      171     c.     combined ­management report
276

                                          gross carry­     translation           additions        additions        reclassi­         retire­    gross carry­          accumu­       carrying      deprecia­
                                          ing amount       differences            through                          fications         ments 1    ing amount        lated depre­    amount as        tion and
                                                 as of                            business                                                             as of        ciation and           of   ­impairment
                                           10/01/2012                            combina­                                                        09/30/2013        impairment     09/30/2013        in fiscal
 (in millions of €)                                                                  tions                                                                                                            2013 2

 land and buildings                             8,285             (189)                  68             187             150            (824)          7,677           (3,651)         4,027            (286)
 technical machinery and
 equipment                                      7,076             (177)                  30             269             284            (463)          7,020           (4,594)         2,426            (510)
 furniture and office
 ­equipment                                     5,664             (149)                  27             681             131            (614)          5,740           (4,352)         1,387            (698)
 equipment leased to others                     3,372             (117)                    –            377               (7)          (689)          2,936           (1,662)         1,274            (362)
 advances to suppliers and
 construction in progress                          859                 (26)                5            465           (559)              (33)             710 3             (9)        701                (6)
  property, plant and
 ­equipment                                   25,255              (658)                129             1,979               –        (2,623)          24,083         (14,268)          9,815        (1,862)


       1 includes property, plant and equipment reclassified to             2 includes impairment expenses of € 141 million in fiscal         3 includes € 594 million expenditures for property,
          assets classified as held for disposal and dispositions of            2013, thereof € 55 million at sre, € 34 million at industry,       plant and equipment under construction.
          those entities.                                                       € 31 million at energy, € 10 million at infrastructure &
                                                                                cities, € 8 million at sfs and € 2 million at healthcare.




depreciation and impairment is included in line items cost of                                               payments from lessees under operating leases primarily relate
sales, research and development expenses or selling and gen-                                                to buildings, medical equipment and transportation systems.
eral administrative expenses, depending on the use of the ­asset.                                           total contingent rent recognized in income in fiscal 2014 and
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, contractual commitments                                                  2013 amounts to € 223 million and € 214 million, respectively.
for purchases of property, plant and equipment amount to
€ 351 million and € 434 million, respectively.                                                              investment property
                                                                                                            the carrying amount of investment property amounts to
in fiscal 2014 and 2013, government grants awarded for the                                                           lion and € 116 million compared to a fair value of
                                                                                                            € 113 mil­
purchase or the production of property, plant and equipment                                                 € 214 mil­lion and € 258 million as of september 30, 2014 and
amounted to € 6 million and € 9 million, respectively. the award                                            2013, respectively. fair value is generally a level 2 measurement
of further government grants of € 65 million and € 60 million in                                            and is determined based on sales of similar property, bid prices
fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively, related to costs incurred and                                           for similar property, external independent appraisals or internal
future costs.                                                                                               fair value measurements which rely on the income approach or
                                                                                                            on adjusted official standard land values depending on the
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, minimum future lease pay-                                                ­nature of the property.
ments receivable from lessees under operating leases are as
follows:



                                                                                     september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                           2014              2013
 within one year                                                              338               321
 after one year but not more than five years                                  590               578
 more than five years                                                         117               137
                                                                         1,045                 1,035




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                                 337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                277
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                          252    d.5     consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income           254    d.6     notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position             330    d.7     supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      note 18      other financial ­assets                                                item other employee related costs primarily includes vacation
                                                                                          payments, accrued overtime and service anniversary awards,
                                                                                          severance payments, as well as liabilities related to termination
                                                                      september 30,       benefits.
       (in millions of €)                                      2014            2013
       loans receivable                                   10,919             8,012
       receivables from finance leases, see                                               note 21          debt
            note 11 trade and other receivables            3,357             3,340
       derivative financial instruments                    2,111             1,894
       available-for-sale financial assets                 1,803             1,560
                                                                                                                                                                 september 30,
       other                                                   226             311
                                                                                               (in millions of €)                                         2014           2013
                                                          18,416           15,117
                                                                                               short-term
                                                                                                notes and bonds                                              –         1,431
                                                                                                loans from banks                                          773            412
                                                                                                other financial indebtedness                              826              82
      item loans receivable primarily relate to long-term loan trans-                           obligations under finance leases                           21              20
      actions of sfs.                                                                            short-term debt and current maturities
                                                                                                  of long-term debt                                     1,620          1,944

                                                                                               long-term
      note 19      other current financial liabilities                                          notes and bonds (maturing until 2066)                 18,165          17,060
                                                                                                loans from banks (maturing until 2023)                    968          1,233
                                                                                                other financial indebtedness
                                                                      september 30,              (maturing until 2027)                                     85            106
       (in millions of €)                                      2014            2013             obligations under finance leases                          108            110
       derivative financial instruments,                                                         long-term debt                                       19,326          18,509
       see    notes 29 and 30                                  680             350                                                                    20,947          20,453
       accrued interest expense                                210             221
       other                                                   826             944
                                                           1,717             1,515

                                                                                          interest rates in this note are per annum. in fiscal 2014 and
                                                                                          2013, weighted-average interest rates for loans from banks,
                                                                                          other financial indebtedness and obligations under finance
                                                                                          leases were 3.0 % (2013: 2.7 %), 0.3 % (2013: 3.1 %) and 4.0 %
      note 20       other current liabilities                                             (2013: 4.1 %), respectively.

                                                                                          1. commercial paper program
                                                                      september 30,       siemens has a us$ 9.0 billion (€7.2 billion as of september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                      2014            2013       2014) multi-currency commercial paper program in place includ-
       billings in excess of costs and estimated earn­                                    ing us$ extendible notes capabilities. as of september 30, 2014
       ings on uncompleted contracts and related
                                                                                          us$ 1.0 billion (€795 million as of september 30, 2014) were out-
       advances                                            9,559           10,559
                                                                                          standing. as of september 30, 2013 no commercial papers were
       payroll obligations and social security taxes       1,438             1,561
       other employee related costs                        1,644             2,103
                                                                                          outstanding. siemens’ commercial papers have a maturity of
       deferred income                                     1,068             1,035
                                                                                          generally less than 90 days. interest rates ranged from 0.1% to
       accruals for pending invoices                       1,059             1,067        0.2% in fiscal 2014 and from 0.01 % to 0.37% in fiscal 2013.
       bonus obligations                                   1,785             1,683
       miscellaneous tax liabilities                           663             669
       deferred reservation fees received                       56             101
       other                                                   682             923
                                                          17,954           19,701




      108   a.   to our shareholders                     131   b.      corporate ­governance                           171   c.    combined ­management report
278

2. bonds



                                                                                                                                  september 30, 2014                             september 30, 2013
                                                                                                                         currency            carrying                     currency          carrying
                                                                                                                notional amount           amount in              notional amount         amount in
 (interest / issued / maturity)                                                                                      (in millions)      millions of € 1               (in millions)    millions of € 1

 5.625 %/2006/march 2016/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                          us$             500                    425        us$              500             412
 5.375 %/2008/june 2014/eur fixed-rate instruments 2                                                             –                 –                  –           €         1,000             1,031
 5.625 %/2008/june 2018/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                               €         1,600               1,839              €         1,600             1,844
 5.125 %/2009/february 2017/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                           €         2,000               2,122              €         2,000             2,136
 us$ 3m libor+1.4 %/2012/february 2019/us$ floating-rate instruments                                         us$             400                    318        us$              400             296
 0.375 %/2012/september 2014/eur fixed-rate instruments 2                                                        –                 –                  –           €             400             400
 1.5 %/2012/march 2020/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                                €         1,000                    995           €         1,000               994
 2.75 %/2012/september 2025/gbp fixed-rate instruments                                                           £           350                    448           £             350             416
 3.75 %/2012/september 2042/gbp fixed-rate instruments                                                           £           650                    819           £             650             760
 1.75 %/2013/march 2021/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                               €         1,250               1,276              €         1,250             1,242
 2.875 %/2013/march 2028/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                              €         1,000                    996           €         1,000               995
 1.5 %/2013/march 2018/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                            us$             500                    396        us$              500             368
 3.5 %/2013/march 2028/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                            us$             100                     77        us$              100               72
 2013/june 2020/us$ floating-rate instruments                                                                us$             400                    317        us$              400             295
 2014/march 2019/us$ floating-rate instruments                                                               us$             300                    238           –               –                 –
 2014/september 2021/us$ floating-rate instruments                                                           us$             400                    317           –               –                 –
  total debt issuance program                                                                                                                 10,582                                        11,262

 5.75 %/2006/october 2016/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                         us$           1,750               1,457           us$          1,750             1,389
 6.125 %/2006/august 2026/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                         us$           1,750               1,843           us$          1,750             1,759
  total us$ bonds                                                                                                                              3,301                                          3,147

 5.25 %/2006/september 2066/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                           €           900                    959           €             900             976
 6.125 %/2006/september 2066/gbp fixed-rate instruments                                                          £           750               1,025              £             750             986
  total hybrid capital bond                                                                                                                    1,984                                          1,962

 1.05 %/2012/august 2017/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                          us$           1,500               1,158           us$          1,500             1,068
 1.65 %/2012/august 2019/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                          us$           1,500               1,140           us$          1,500             1,052
  total bond with warrant units                                                                                                                2,298                                          2,120
                                                                                                                                              18,165                                        18,491


       1 includes adjustments for fair value hedge accounting.         2    redeemed at face value at maturity in fiscal 2014.




debt issuance program                                                                                  floating-rate instruments due september 10, 2021 and redeemed
the company has a program for the issuance of debt instru-                                             at face value € 400 million in 0,375 % fixed-rate instruments on
ments under which it may issue instruments up to € 15.0 billion                                        september 10, 2014.
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. as of septem-
ber 30, 2014 and 2013 € 10.2 billion and € 10.9 billion in notional                                    hybrid capital bond
amounts were issued and are outstanding.                                                               in september 2006, the company issued a subordinated hybrid
                                                                                                       bond in a eur tranche of € 900 million and a gbp tranche of
in march 2014, siemens issued us$ 300 million (€ 238 million as                                        £ 750 million (€ 965 million as of september 30, 2014), both
of september 30, 2014) privately placed floating-rate instru-                                          with a legal final maturity on september 14, 2066 and with a
ments due march 6, 2019. furthermore, siemens redeemed at                                              call option for siemens in 2016 or thereafter. the instruments
face value € 1.0 billion in 5.375 % fixed-rate instruments on                                          bear fixed-rate interests until september 14, 2016; thereafter,
june 11, 2014. in september 2014 siemens issued us$ 400 mil-                                           floating-rate interest is applied according to the conditions of
lion (€ 318 million as of september 30, 2014) privately placed                                         the bond.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                          337    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                         279
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                     252       d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income      254       d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position        330       d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      bond with warrant units                                                      as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, € 6.8 billion and € 6.7 billion
      in february 2012, siemens issued us$ fixed-rate bonds with                   of these lines of credit remained unused. commitment fees for
      warrant units in an aggregate principal amount of us$ 3 billion              the years ended september 30, 2014 and 2013 amount to
      in two tranches, comprising: (1) us$ 1.5 billion (€ 1.2 billion as           € 6 million and € 6 million, respectively. the facilities are for
      of september 30, 2014) in 1.05 % instruments maturing on                     general business purposes.
      ­august 16, 2017 and (2) us$ 1.5 billion (€ 1.2 billion as of sep-
       tember 30, 2014) in 1.65 % instruments maturing on august 16,               5. other financial indebtedness
       2019. each of the us$ 1.5 billion instruments were issued with              item other financial indebtedness includes € 27 million and
       6,000 detachable warrants. the warrants’ exercise price was                 € 111 million as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, for
       fixed in euro. the warrants entitle the holders, at their option,           the company’s real estate a  ­ ssets that were sold or transferred
       to receive 1,806.1496 siemens ag shares per warrant at an                   and in which siemens has retained significant risks and re-
       ­exercise price per share of € 104.0018 during the exercise ­period         wards of ownership, including circumstances in which siemens
        which matures on august 1, 2017 and august 1, 2019 for instru-             participates directly or indirectly in the change in market
        ments (1) and instruments (2), respectively. after the spin-off            value of the property. therefore, these transactions have been
        of osram in fiscal 2013, the warrants entitle the holders to               ­accounted for as financing obligations. these real estate prop-
        ­obtain 169.4234 osram shares in addition to siemens shares.                erties are carried on the company’s consolidated statements of
         the number of additional shares remains subject to the adjust-             financial position and no sale and profit has been recognized.
         ment provisions under the terms and conditions of warrants.
         since the approval of the osram spin-off in january 2013 the              obligations under finance leases
         warrants are accounted for as other financial liability. the war-
         rants result in option rights relating to a total of 21.7 million
         siemens ag shares.                                                                                                                         september 30, 2014
                                                                                                                                                     present value of
                                                                                                                   minimum future                    minimum future
      3. assignable and term loans                                                                                  lease payment      unamortized    lease payment
      the company has a 5.435 % fixed rate assignable loan for gen-                     (in millions of €)              obligation ­interest expense      obligation

      eral corporate purposes due on june 12, 2015 with a notional                      due

      amount of € 333 million as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 and                     within one year                         49                28                 21

      a carrying amount of € 343 million and € 356 million, respec-                     after one year but not
                                                                                        more than five years                    92                  7                85
      tively, as of september 30, 2014 and 2013.
                                                                                        more than five years                    76                52                 24
                                                                                        total                                  217                87                130
      in march 2014, the two bilateral us$ 500 million term loan facil-
                                                                                        less: current portion                                                        (21)
      ities (in aggregate € 795 million in notional and carrying
                                                                                                                                                                    108
      amount as of september 30, 2014) that the company signed
      and fully drew in fiscal 2013 bearing floating-rate interest of
      0.79 % above three months libor with an original term of five
      years were extended by one year and are now due on march 26,
      2019 with a remaining one year extension option.
                                                                                                                                                    september 30, 2013
                                                                                                                                                         present value of
      4. credit facilities                                                                                         minimum future                        minimum future
                                                                                                                    lease payment        unamortized      lease payment
      the credit facilities at september 30, 2014 and 2013 consisted of                 (in millions of €)              obligation   ­interest expense        obligation
      € 6.8 billion and € 6.7 billion, respectively, in committed lines of              due
      credit. as of september 30, 2014, those include: (1) a € 4.0 bil-                 within one year                         32                12                 20
      lion undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving credit facil-                    after one year but not
      ity; in june 2014, the facility has been amended and extended                     more than five years                    94                  9                86
      to june 27, 2019 with two one-year extension options remain-                      more than five years                    78                53                 25
      ing; (2) a us$ 3.0 billion (€ 2.4 billion as of september 30, 2014)               total                                  204                74                130
      undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving credit facility; in                   less: current portion                                                        (20)
      2014 its maturity has been extended by one year to septem-                                                                                                    110
      ber 27, 2019 with one one-year extension option remaining; (3)
      a € 450 million revolving credit facility provided by a domestic
      bank expiring september 30, 2015.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                            171   c.   combined ­management report
280

note 22      post-employment benefits                                                           these plans. however, these frozen plans still expose the
                                                                                               c
                                                                                               ­ ompany to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest
post-employment benefits provided by siemens are organized                                      rate risk and longevity risk. furthermore, deferred compen­
through defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution                                  sation plans are offered which are also funded via a cta. in
plans which cover almost all of the company ’s domestic em-                                    ­germany no legal or regulatory minimum funding require-
ployees and the majority of the company’s foreign employees.                                    ments apply. the trusts, which are legally separate from the
post-employment defined benefit plans include pension bene-                                     company, manage their plan ­assets as trustees, in accordance
fits and other post-employment benefits, which primarily                                        with the respective trust agreements with the company.
­consist of transition payments to german employees after
 ­retirement as well as post-employment health care and life                                   u.s.:
  ­insurance benefits to employees in the u.s. and canada.                                     siemens corporation in the u.s. sponsors one major defined
                                                                                               benefit plan, the siemens pension plan, which is frozen to new
defined benefit plans                                                                          entrants and accretion of new benefits (with the exception of
in order to reduce the company ’s exposure to certain risks                                    one small group of union employees). employees of siemens
­associated with defined benefit plans, such as longevity, infla-                              u.s. companies hired prior to april 1st, 2006 participate in the
 tion, effects of compensation increases, siemens regularly                                    siemens pension plan. most of the defined benefit plan par­
 ­reviews and continuously improves the design of its post-­                                   ticipants’ benefits are calculated using a cash balance formula;
  employment defined benefit plans. the benefits of defined                                    ­although a small group of participants are eligible for a benefit
  benefit plans open to new entrants are based predominantly on                                 based on a final average pay formula. this frozen defined ben-
  contributions made by the company and are still affected by                                   efit plan exposes the company to actuarial risks such as invest-
  longevity, inflation adjustments and compensation increases,                                  ment risk, interest rate risk and longevity risk.
  but only to a significant lesser extent. the company ’s major
  defined benefit plans are funded with ­assets in segregated en-                              the defined benefit plan a    ­ ssets are held in a master trust.
  tities. the defined benefit plans cover 494,000 participants,                                siemens corporation, as the sponsoring employer, has dele-
  including 210,000 active employees, 85,000 former employees                                  gated investment oversight of the plans’ a     ­ ssets to the invest-
  with vested benefits and 199,000 retirees and surviving depen-                               ment committee. the investment committee members have
  dents. individual benefits are generally based on eligible com-                              a fiduciary duty to act solely in the best interests of the bene­
  pensation levels and / or ranking within the company hierarchy                               ficiaries according to the trust agreement and u.s. law. the
  and years of service. the characteristics of the defined benefit                             ­committee has established an investment policy statement
  plans and the risks associated with them vary depending on                                    which articulates the goals and objectives of the plans’ invest-
  legal, fiscal and economic requirements in each country. for                                  ment management, including diversifying the a         ­ ssets of the
  the ­major defined benefit plans of siemens the characteristics                               master trust with the intention of appropriately addressing
  and risks are as follows:                                                                     concentration risks. the trustee of the master trust acts only
                                                                                                by direction of the investment committee. it is responsible for
germany:                                                                                        the safekeeping of the trust, but generally has no decision
in germany, siemens ag provides pension benefits through the                                    making authority over the plan a  ­ ssets. the legal and regulatory
cash-balance plan bsav (beitragsorientierte siemens alters­                                     framework for the plans is based on the applicable u.s. legisla-
versorgung), frozen legacy plans and deferred compensation                                      tion employee retirement income security act (erisa). based
plans. the majority of siemens’ active employees in germany                                     on this legislation a funding valuation is prepared annually.
participate in the bsav introduced in fiscal 2004, which is a                                   annual contributions are determined by the plans’ indepen-
funded defined benefit pension plan whose benefits are pre-                                     dent actuaries as prescribed under the rules and regulations of
dominantly based on contributions made by the company and                                       erisa and the internal revenue code. there is a regulatory
returns earned on such contributions, subject to a minimum                                      ­requirement to maintain a minimum funding level of 80 % in
return guaranteed by the company. the bsav is funded via a                                       the defined benefit plans in order to avoid benefit restrictions.
contractual trust arrangement (cta), the bsav trust. individual
benefits under the frozen legacy plans are based on eligible                                   u.k.:
compensation levels or ranking within the company hierarchy                                    siemens plc in the u.k. sponsors a frozen defined benefit plan
and years of service. in connection with the implementation of                                 and a defined contribution plan for all new employees and for
the bsav, benefits provided under the frozen legacy plans                                      the active service of those members who have participated
funded via a cta, the siemens pension trust, were modified to                                  in the frozen defined benefit plan. there are several smaller
substantially eliminate the effects of compensation increases                                  ­defined benefit plans which result from previous acquisitions,
by freezing the accretion of benefits under the majority of                                     those plans are in the process of being de-risked. for most of




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       281
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      the defined benefit plan members an inflation increase of the                    switzerland:
      accrued benefits until the start of retirement is mandatory.                     siemens switzerland sponsors several funded defined benefit
      ­furthermore, the plans expose the company to actuarial risks                    (cash-balance) plans following the swiss law of occupational
       such as investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and                 benefits (bvg) according to which each employer has to grant
       salary increase risk. the funding environment is determined by                  post-employment benefits for qualifying employees. these
       the pension regulator and the applicable social and labor laws.                 plans are administered by foundations that are legally sepa-
       the defined benefit plans are each governed by a benefit trust                  rated from the entity. for the main pension fund, which rep-
       whose decision making body is a board of trustees who have a                    resents almost all of the defined benefit obligation in switzer-
       fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries                land, the board of the pension fund is composed of equally
       according to the trust agreement and law. the required fund-                    many employer and employee representatives. the board of
       ing is determined by a funding valuation carried out every third                each pension fund is required by law and by the regulations to
       year based on legal requirements, which measures the liabili-                   act in the fund’s and all stakeholders’ best interest, i.e. in the
       ties on a government bond basis rather than under a high qual-                  interest of all active employees and retirees. the board of the
       ity corporate bond basis as under ias 19, thus the technical                    pension fund is responsible for the investment policy and the
       funding deficit is usually larger. the funding valuation assump-                asset management, as well as for any changes in the plan rules,
       tions are negotiated between the company and the trustees.                      in which it determines the necessary contributions to finance
       the latest funding valuation, for the largest plan, in uk in cal-               the benefits. the company is required to make total contribu-
       endar year 2011 resulted in a technical underfunding of gbp 939                 tions at least as high as the sum of the employee contributions
       (€ 1,208) million, based on the assumptions at that date. as a                  set out in the plan rules. employer’s and employees’ contribu-
       result, in fiscal 2013, siemens entered into an agreement with                  tions are determined by the respective foundation boards.
       the trustees to provide an annual payment of gbp 31 (€ 40) mil-                 about 40 % of the necessary contributions are financed by
       lion for the next 20 years, beginning in fiscal 2014. the agree-                the employees. in the case of an underfunding in a plan the
       ment also provides for a cumulative advance payment by                          ­company together with the employees may be asked to pay
       siemens ag compensating the remaining annual payments at                         ­extra contributions in a well defined framework of recovery
       the date of early termination of the agreement due to cancella-                   measures. the plans expose the company to various actuarial
       tion or insolvency. in addition to these payments the company                     and financial risks such as longevity, interest rate risks and
       is obliged to pay gbp 5 (€ 6) million until the next funding valu-                ­salary increases.
       ation, when the funding requirements will be updated based
       on new assumptions. this valuation process will start in calen-                                                                    ­ inancial
                                                                                       the amounts included in the company’s consolidated f
       dar year 2014.                                                                  statements arising from its post-employment defined benefit
                                                                                       plans are as follows:




                                                       defined benefit                          fair value    effects in connection                        net defined
                                                      obligation (dbo)                      of plan assets        with asset ceiling                    benefit balance
                                                        september 30,                       september 30,             september 30,                     september 30,
       (in millions of €)                      2014                2013            2014              2013    2014              2013            2014               2013
       germany                              22,414            20,367           15,105            14,017         –                 –         (7,309)            (6,350)
       u.s.                                  3,730             3,769             2,888            2,575         –                 –           (842)            (1,194)
       u.k.                                  4,845             4,455             4,818            4,022       (97)             (65)           (125)              (498)
       ch                                    2,784             2,828             2,673            2,489       (59)             (49)           (170)              (388)
       other                                 1,818             1,753             1,021               975      (46)             (32)           (843)              (810)
       total                                35,591            33,173           26,505            24,078      (202)            (146)         (9,288)            (9,241)




      the net defined benefit balance of € 9,288 million and
      € 9,241 million as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 comprises
       € 9,324 million and € 9,265 million net defined benefit liability
       and € 36 million and € 24 million net defined benefit asset,
      ­respectively.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                    131   b.    corporate ­governance                    171     c.   combined ­management report
282

defined benefit costs are as follows:                                                             the company’s defined benefit plans are explicitly explained in
                                                                                                  the subsequent sections with regard to:

                                                               year ended september 30,                                                                     ­ ssets,
                                                                                                  >> reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and plan a
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014            2013        >> actuarial assumptions,
 current service cost                                                 477              505        >> sensitivity analysis,
 past service (benefit) cost                                             3               (9)      >> asset-liability matching strategies,
 settlement (gains) losses                                               1               (7)      >> disaggregation of plan ­assets, and
 net interest expenses                                                295              294        >> future cash flows.
 net interest income                                                    (1)              (3)
 liability administration expenses                                       8              16        reconciliation for defined benefit obligations
 components of defined benefit                                                                    and plan ­assets
 costs recognized in the consolidated
 statements of income                                                 784              795        a detailed reconciliation for the changes in the dbo for fiscal
 return on plan assets                                                                            2014 and 2013 is provided in the following table:
 (excluding amounts included in net interest
 expenses and net interest income)                                (2,098)             (507)
 actuarial (gains) and losses                                     1,972                (47)
                                                                                                                                                            year ended september 30,
 effect from asset ceiling                                              43             (23)
                                                                                                    (in millions of €)                                              2014       2013
 remeasurements of defined benefit plans
                                                                                                    change in defined benefit obligations:
 recognized in the consolidated statements
 of comprehensive income                                               (83)           (577)         defined benefit obligation at beginning of year               33,173    33,650
 defined benefit costs                                                701              218           current service cost                                           477        505
                                                                                                     past service (benefit) cost                                       3         (9)
                                                                                                     settlement (gains) losses                                         1         (7)
                                                                                                     interest expenses                                             1,089     1,029
a reconciliation of the funded status to the amounts recog-                                         remeasurements:
nized in the consolidated statements of financial position is as                                     actuarial (gains) losses from changes ­
                                                                                                      in demographic assumptions                                    370          43
follows:
                                                                                                     actuarial (gains) losses from changes ­
                                                                                                      in financial assumptions                                     1,602      (245)
                                                                                                     experience (gains) losses                                         –       156
                                                                             september 30,          plan participants’ contributions                                122        105
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014            2013          benefits paid                                                 (1,649)   (1,612)
 defined benefit obligation of pension                                                              settlement payments                                               (7)       (67)
 benefit plans                                                   35,037            32,594
                                                                                                    business combinations, disposals and other                      (224)      135
 defined benefit obligation of other
                                                                                                    foreign currency translation effects                            635       (507)
 post-employment benefit plans                                        554              579
                                                                                                    defined benefit obligation at end of year                     35,591    33,173
 total defined benefit obligation                                35,591            33,173
                                                                                                    thereof:
 fair value of plan assets of pension
 benefit plans                                                   26,500            24,073            active employees                                             11,360    10,767
 fair value of plan assets of other                                                                  former employees with vested rights                           4,958     4,645
 post-employment benefit plans                                           5                5          retirees and surviving dependants                            19,273    17,761
 total fair value of plan assets                                 26,505            24,078
 funded status of pension benefit plans                           (8,537)          (8,520)
  funded status of other post-employment
 ­benefit plans                                                       (548)           (575)
                                                                                                  actuarial (gains) losses from changes in demographic assump-
 total funded status (excluding effects
 in connection with asset ceiling)                                (9,086)          (9,095)        tions include losses from modified assumptions of german and
                                                                                                  us mortality tables of total € 441 million and gains of € 102 mil-
                                                                                                  lion from adjusted turnover rates in switzerland.

                                                                                                   actuarial (gains) losses from changes in financial assumptions
                                                                                                  include losses from decreasing market interest rates which
                                                                                                  were compensated by gains of total € 2,214 million from the
                                                                                                  ­refined extrapolation and data selection used to derive the dis-
                                                                                                   count rate in the major currency zones (eur, gbp, usd, chf).




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                               337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                       283
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   252    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      330    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      the net interest income/expense for fiscal year 2015 improves by                      the data selection criteria used to derive the discount rate in
      €19 million due to the refined determination of discount rate.                        the major currency zones (eur, gbp, usd, chf) and the extra­
                                                                                            polation were refined as of september 30, 2014. the discount
      a detailed reconciliation of the changes in the fair value of plan                    rate was derived from high-quality corporate bonds with an
      ­assets for fiscal 2014 and 2013 is provided in the following t­ able:                ­issuing volume of more than 100 million units in the respective
                                                                                             currency zones, which have been awarded an aa rating (or
                                                                                             equivalent) by at least one of the two rating agencies moody ’s
                                                         year ended september 30,            investor service or standard & poor’s rating services.
       (in millions of €)                                        2014            2013
       change in plan assets:                                                               the mortality tables used for the actuarial valuation of the dbo
       fair value of plan assets at beginning of year       24,078           24,057         were as follows (most significant countries):
        interest income                                          802             745
       remeasurements:
        return on plan assets excluding
         amounts included in net interest income
         and net interest expenses                              2,098            507             germany                               heubeck richttafeln 2005 g (modified)

       employer contributions                                    533             528             u.s.                                  rp2000 combined healthy ­
                                                                                                                                       fully generational mortality table and
       plan participants’ contributions                          122             105                                                   longevity improvement scale bb2d

       benefits paid                                        (1,514)           (1,476)            u.k.                                  s1pxa (standard mortality tables
                                                                                                                                       for self administered pension schemes
       settlement payments                                         (7)            (67)                                                 (saps) with allowance for future
                                                                                                                                       ­mortality improvements)
       business combinations, disposals and other               (122)              93
       liability administration costs                              (8)            (16)           ch                                    bvg 2010 g

       foreign currency translation effects                      525            (397)
       fair value of plan assets at end of year             26,505           24,078


                                                                                            the rates of compensation increase for countries with signifi-
                                                                                            cant effects with regard to this assumption were as follows in
      line item business combinations, disposals and other in the                           fiscal 2014 and 2013: u.k.: 4.80 % and 4.80 %, switzerland: 1.50 %
      tables above contains reclassifications to ­assets and to liabili-                    and 1.50 %. the rates of pension progression for countries with
      ties held for disposal.                                                               significant effects with regard to this assumption were as fol-
                                                                                            lows in fiscal 2014 and 2013: germany: 1.69 % and 1.69 %, u.k.:
      actuarial assumptions                                                                 3.2 % and 3.2 %.
      assumed discount rates, compensation increase rates, pension
      progression rates and mortality rates used in calculating the                         the dbo is also affected by assumed future inflation rates. the
      dbo vary according to the economic and other conditions of                            effect of inflation is recognized within the assumptions above
      the country in which the retirement plans are situated.                               where applicable.

      the weighted-average discount rate used for the actuarial valu-                       sensitivity analysis
      ation of the dbo at ­period-end was as follows:                                       a one-half-percentage-point change of the established assump-
                                                                                            tions mentioned before, used for the calculation of the dbo as
                                                                                            of september 30, 2014 and 2013, would result in the following
                                                                        september 30,       increase (decrease) of the dbo:
                                                         2014                    2013
       discount rate                                    3.0 %                   3.4 %
        germany                                         2.4 %                   3.1 %                                                                     effect on dbo due to a
        u.s.                                            4.6 %                   3.7 %                                                                 ­one-half percentage-point
                                                                                                                                                           as of ­september 2014
        u.k.                                            4.5 %                   4.5 %            (in millions of €)                                      increase       decrease
        ch                                              1.8 %                   2.1 %            discount rate                                           (2,100)         2,361
                                                                                                 rate of compensation increase                               95             (90)
                                                                                                 rate of pension progression                              1,590         (1,441)




      108   a.   to our shareholders                      131    b.      corporate ­governance                          171    c.   combined ­management report
284

                                                                                                asset liability matching strategies
                                                                   effect on dbo due to a       siemens’ funding policy for its funded defined benefit plans is
                                                               ­one-half percentage-point
                                                                    as of s
                                                                          ­ eptember 2013
                                                                                                part of the overall commitment to sound financial manage-
 (in millions of €)                                               increase       decrease       ment, which also includes an ongoing analysis of the structure
 discount rate                                                    (1,919)         2,159         of siemens’ defined benefit liabilities. to balance return and
 rate of compensation increase                                        136           (105)       risk, siemens has developed a benefit risk management con-
 rate of pension progression                                       1,492         (1,339)        cept. the company has identified as a major risk a decline in
                                                                                                the plans’ funded status as a result of the adverse development
                                                                                                of plan a  ­ssets and / or defined benefit obligations. siemens
                                                                                                monitors its investments and its defined benefit obligations in
the reduction of the mortality rates by 10 % results in an                                      order to measure such risk. the risk quantifies the expected
­increase of life expectancy depending on the individual age of                                 maximum decline in the principle plans’ funded status for a
 each beneficiary. that means for example, that the life expec-                                 given confidence level over a given time horizon. a risk limit on
 tancy of a 55 years old male siemens employee as of sep­                                       the group level forms the basis for the determination of the
 tember 30, 2014 increases by approximately 1 year. in order to                                 company ’s investment strategy, i.e. the strategic asset class
 ­determine the longevity sensitivity the mortality rates were                                  allocation of principle plan ­assets and the degree of interest
  ­reduced by 10 % for all beneficiaries. the effect on dbo due to                              rate risk hedging. both the risk limit and investment strategy
   a 10 % reduction in mortality rates would result in an increase                              are regularly reviewed with the participation of senior external
   of € 1,027 million and € 985 million as of september 30, 2014                                experts of the international asset management and insurance
   and 2013.                                                                                    industry to allow for an integral view on plan a­ ssets and benefit
                                                                                                liabilities. the company selects asset managers based on quan-
when calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obliga-                                 titative and qualitative analysis and subsequently constantly
tion to significant actuarial assumptions the same method                                       monitors their performance and risk, both on a stand-alone
(present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with                                ­basis, and in the broader portfolio context. siemens reviews
the projected unit credit method) has been applied as when cal-                                  the asset allocation of each plan in light of the duration of the
culating the post-employment benefit obligation recognized in                                    related benefit liabilities and analyzes trends and events that
the consolidated statement of financial position. increases and                                  may affect asset values in order to inform about appropriate
decreases in the discount rate, rate of compensation ­increase,                                  measures at a very early stage.
rate of pension progression and mortality rates which are used
in determining the dbo do not have a symmetrical effect on the                                  derivatives are used for risk reducing purposes to either reduce
dbo primarily due to the compound interest e        ­ ffect created                             the fluctuations in the value of plan a     ­ ssets or reduce funded
when determining the net present value of the future benefit. if                                status volatility as part of an integrated risk management
more than one of the assumptions are changed simultaneously,                                    ­approach for a   ­ ssets and liabilities. main risks mitigated are
the combined impact due to the changes would not necessarily                                     ­interest rate, credit, equity, currency and inflation risk. all over-
be the same as the sum of the individual effects due to the                                       the-counter derivatives are collateralized on a daily basis to
changes. furthermore, the sensitivities r­ eflect a change in the                                 eliminate counterparty risk. in addition, derivatives are permit-
dbo only for a change in the ­assumptions in this specific mag-                                   ted for investment managers to use as substitutes for tradi-
nitude, i.e. 0.5%. if the a
                          ­ ssumptions change at a different level,                               tional securities where appropriate, to manage exposure to
the effect on the dbo is not necessarily in a linear ­relation.                                   foreign exchange and interest rate risks.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                             337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                          285
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      disaggregation of plan ­assets                                                             expected benefit payments

                                       ­ ssets of the defined benefit
      the asset allocation of the plan a                                                  (in millions of €)                                      september 30, 2014
      plans is as follows:                                                                2015                                                               1,687
                                                                                          2016                                                               1,659
                                                                                          2017                                                               1,668
                                                                 september 30,            2018                                                               1,706
       (in millions of €)                                 2014            2013            2019                                                               1,725
       asset class                                                                        2020 – 2024                                                        9,069
       equity securities                              7,050             6,604
                                                                                          (in millions of €)                                      september 30, 2013
        u.s. equities                                 1,463             1,416
        european equities                             2,030             2,214             2014                                                               1,647

        emerging markets                              1,611             1,457             2015                                                               1,613

        global equities                               1,947             1,517             2016                                                               1,624

       fixed income securities                       14,694           12,768              2017                                                               1,668

        government bonds                              4,216             3,003             2018                                                               1,713

        corporate bonds                              10,479             9,765             2019 – 2023                                                        8,958

       alternative investments                        3,174             2,961
        hedge funds                                   1,211               978
        private equity                                    626             497
        real estate                                   1,337             1,487
                                                                                     the weighted average duration of the dbo for siemens defined
       derivatives                                        646             175
                                                                                     benefit plans was 13 years as of september 30, 2014 and 2013.
        interest risk                                 1,149               263
        foreign currency risk                              (45)             53
                                                                                     multi-employer defined benefit plans
        credit / inflation / price risks                  (458)          (141)
                                                                                     multi-employer plans mainly exist in the netherlands and in
       cash and cash equivalents                          456           1,148
                                                                                     the u.s. these plans are industry specific plans based on local
       other assets                                       485             422
                                                                                     laws, which are accounted for as defined contribution plans as
       total                                         26,505           24,078
                                                                                     siemens has no right to obtain the necessary data for defined
                                                                                     benefit plan accounting. these plans may expose the company
                                                                                     to investment and actuarial risk in case of a deficit.
      virtually all equity securities have quoted prices in active mar-
      kets. the fair value of fixed income securities is based on prices             in the netherlands the company is not liable for other enti-
      provided by price service agencies. the fixed income securities                ties’ obligations under the terms and conditions of the multi-­
      are traded in highly liquid markets and almost all fixed income                employer plan.
      securities are investment grade. in addition, the asset class
      other ­assets includes a ­ ssets with quoted prices in active mar-             in the u.s. the company may be liable for other entities’ obliga-
      kets in the amount of € 67 million and € 78 million as of septem-              tions in case of failure of other participating employers to make
      ber 30, 2014 and 2013.                                                         required contributions. in case of withdrawal from a plan the
                                                                                     company may be subject to a liability for the potential future
      as of september 30, 2013, the major part of cash and cash                      statutory underfunding for its share in the plan. the company
      equivalents is marked as cash in transition into corporate bond                has only a minor share in these plans compared to other partic-
      mandates.                                                                      ipating entities and has no intention to withdraw from one of
                                                                                     these plans.
      the plan ­assets include own transferable financial instruments
      of the company with a fair value of € 110 million and € 89 mil-                siemens is not aware of any probable significant risk due to
      lion as of september 30, 2014 and 2013.                                        multi-employer defined benefit plans accounted for as defined
                                                                                     contribution plans.
      future cash flows
      employer contributions expected to be paid to the post-em-                     siemens expects contributions to multi-employer defined ben-
      ployment defined benefit plans in fiscal 2015 are € 655 million.               efit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans for the
      at the end of fiscal 2013 the company expected to pay € 631 mil-               next fiscal year of € 27 million.
      lion employer contributions for fiscal 2014.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131    b.     corporate ­governance                         171   c.   combined ­management report
286

defined contribution plans and state plans
the amount recognized as expense for defined contribution
plans amounts to € 535 million and € 594 million in fiscal 2014
and 2013, respectively. contributions to state plans amount
to € 1,317 million and € 1,354 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013,
­respectively.



note 23       provisions

                                                                                             warranties       order related                      asset             other         total
                                                                                                            losses and risks             r­ etirement
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                     ­obligations

 balance as of october 1, 2013                                                                   3,350               1,929                   1,138                1,976        8,392
  thereof non-current                                                                            1,200                    686                1,113                  908        3,907
 additions                                                                                       1,776                    881                       3               469        3,128
 usage                                                                                            (771)               (725)                       (8)              (337)       (1,842)
 reversals                                                                                        (657)               (320)                       (8)              (528)       (1,513)
 translation differences                                                                             59                    31                       2                   10       102
 accretion expense and effect of changes in discount rates                                            1                     8                   264                     10       284
 other changes                                                                                      (37)                  (59)                      7                   (38)    (127)
 balance as of september 30, 2014                                                                3,721               1,745                   1,398                1,561        8,425
  thereof non-current                                                                            1,423                    580                1,377                  691        4,071




item other changes contains reclassifications to line item                                     wind blades; in fiscal 2013 charges related to inspecting and
­liabilities associated with ­assets classified as held for disposal                           retrofitting onshore turbine blades amounted to € 94 million.
 including the disposal of those entities of € 131 million.
                                                                                               asset retirement obligations – the company is subject to
except for asset retirement obligations, the majority of the                                   asset retirement obligations related to certain items of prop-
company ’s provisions are generally expected to result in cash                                 erty, plant and equipment. such asset retirement obligations
outflows during the next one to 15 years.                                                      are primarily attributable to environmental clean-up costs
                                                                                               which amounted to € 1,347 million and € 1,096 million, respec-
warranties – mainly relate to products sold. order related                                     tively, as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 (the non-current por-
losses and risks – are provided for anticipated losses and                                     tion thereof being € 1,339 million and € 1,086 million, respec-
risks on uncompleted construction, sales and leasing contracts.                                tively) and to costs primarily associated with the removal of
                                                                                               leasehold improvements at the end of the lease term.
in fiscal 2014, the power transmission division of the energy
sector incurred charges totaling € 298 million related to two                                  environmental clean-up costs relate to remediation and envi-
high voltage direct current (hvdc) transmission line projects in                               ronmental protection liabilities which have been accrued based
canada, resulting from revised estimates for civil engineering                                 on the estimated costs of decommissioning facilities for
and infrastructure provided by suppliers as well as penalties for                              the production of uranium and mixed-oxide fuel elements
associated project delays, among other factors. in addition,                                   in hanau, germany (hanau facilities), as well as a nuclear
power transmission incurred charges of € 240 million primarily                                 ­research and service center in karlstein, germany (karlstein
related to grid connections to offshore wind-farms resulting                                    ­facilities). according to the german atomic energy act, when
from transport, installation and commissioning costs, com-                                       such a facility is closed, the resulting radioactive waste must be
pared to charges of € 171 million in fiscal 2013. the wind power                                 collected and delivered to a government-developed final stor-
division of the energy sector r­ ecorded charges of € 272 million                                age facility. in this regard, the company has developed a plan
in fiscal 2014 for inspecting and replacing main bearings in                                     to decommission the hanau and karlstein facilities in the fol-
­onshore wind turbines and for repairing offshore and onshore                                    lowing steps: clean-out, decontamination and disassembly of




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                   337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                         287
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      equipment and installations, decontamination of the facilities              develop the so called schacht konrad. as of september 30,
      and buildings, sorting of radioactive materials, and inter­                 2014 and 2013, the provision totals € 1,347 million and
      mediate and final storage of the radioactive waste. this process            € 1,096 million, respectively, and is recorded net of a present
      will be supported by continuing engineering studies and radio-              value discount of € 977 million and € 1,259 million, respectively
      active sampling under the supervision of german federal and                 reflecting the assumed continuous outflow of the total
      state authorities. the decontamination, disassembly and final               ­expected payments until the 2070’s.
      waste conditioning are planned to continue until 2018; there­
      after, the company is responsible for intermediate storage of               the company recognizes the accretion of the provision for en-
      the radioactive materials until a final storage facility is avail-          vironmental clean-up costs using the effective interest method
      able. with respect to the hanau facility, the process of setting            applying current interest rates prevailing at the ­period-end
      up intermediate storage for radioactive waste has nearly                    date. in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the company recognized € 22 mil-
      reached completion; on september 21, 2006, the company                      lion and € 22 million, respectively, in accretion expense for
      received official notification from the authorities that the
      ­                                                                           ­
                                                                                  environmental clean-up costs in line item other financial
      hanau facility has been released from the scope of application              ­income (expenses), net. changes in discount rates increased
      of the german atomic energy act and that its further use is                  the carrying amount of provisions by € 242 million as of sep-
      unrestricted. the ultimate costs of the remediation are contin-              tember 30, 2014 and decreased it by € 128 million as of septem-
      gent on the decision of the federal government on the location               ber 30, 2013.
      of the final storage facilities and the date of their availability.
      consequently, the provision is based on a number of significant             other – other includes transaction-related and post-closing
      estimates and assumptions. several parameters relating to the               provisions in connection with portfolio activities as well as pro-
      development of a final storage facility for radioactive waste are           visions for legal and regulatory matters.
      based on the assumptions for the so called schacht konrad
      ­final storage. parameters related to the life-span of the german
       nuclear reactors reflect a planned phase-out until 2022. the val-          note 24           other liabilities
       uation uses assumptions to reflect the current and detailed cost
       estimates, price inflation and discount rates as well as a contin-
       uous outflow until the 2070’s related to the costs for disman-                                                                                     september 30,
       tling as well as intermediate and final storage.                                (in millions of €)                                          2014           2013
                                                                                       employee related liabilities                                550            604
      using the input of an independent advisor, management up-                        liabilities due to employees and retirees
                                                                                       in the u.s. not qualifying for presentation
      dated its valuation of the liability due to changes in estimates
                                                                                       as post-employment benefits                                 618            534
      which resulted in minor adjustments in fiscal 2014 and 2013.                     deferred income                                             228            275
      the determination of the provisions related to major asset                       accruals for pending invoices                                76              96
      retire­ment obligations will continue to involve significant esti-               severance payments                                          118            133
      mates and assumptions. uncertainties surrounding the amount                      german pension insurance association –
      to be recognized include, for example, the estimated costs of                    pensionssicherungsverein (psv)                               34              39
      decommissioning and final storage because of the long time                       insurance liabilities                                        39              76
      frame over which future cash outflows are expected to occur.                     other                                                       210            317
      amongst others, the estimated cash outflows related to the                                                                                 1,874          2,074
      ­
      asset retirement obligation could alter significantly if, and
      when, political developments affect the government’s plans to




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                            171    c.   combined ­management report
288

note 25       equity
capital stock
siemens’ issued capital is composed of no par value shares
with a notional value of € 3.00 per share. each share of issued
capital is entitled to one vote.



                                                                                                        issued capital              authorized capital                conditional capital
                                                                                                                                         (not issued)                        (not issued)
                                                                                        in thousands     in thousand      in thousands    in thousand       in thousands    in thousand
                                                                                                 of €          shares              of €         shares               of €         shares

 as of september 30, 2012                                                               2,643,000          881,000          610,800         203,600        1,027,517          342,506
  approved, expired or cancelled capital                                                           –                –                –                –                –               –
 as of september 30, 2013                                                               2,643,000          881,000          610,800         203,600        1,027,517          342,506
  expired or cancelled                                                                             –                –      (520,800)       (173,600)         (426,951)       (142,317)
  newly approved capital                                                                           –                –       528,600         176,200           240,000           80,000
 as of september 30, 2014                                                               2,643,000          881,000          618,600         206,200           840,566         280,189




as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the company has a total of                                  conditional capital 2014 approved on january 28, 2014 and
1,087,200 thousand and 1,084,600 thousand authorized shares.                                   ­expiring on january 27, 2019, permits the issuance of convert-
                                                                                                ible and / or warrant bonds in aggregate of up to € 15 billion,
authorized capital (not issued)                                                                  ­entitling the holders to subscribe to up to 80 million no par
the company ’s shareholders authorized the managing board,                                       value shares (representing up to € 240 million capital stock
with the approval of the supervisory board, to increase capital                                   ­increase), issuable for contributions in cash and, in certain
stock through the issuance of no par value shares registered in                                 ­circumstances, contributions in kind.
the names of the holders and to determine the further content
of the rights embodied in the shares, whereas subscription                                     conditional capital 2010 permits the issuance of bonds with
rights are or may be excluded:                                                                 conversion rights and / or with warrants in aggregate of up to
                                                                                               € 15 billion, entitling the holders to subscribe to up to 200 mil-
authorized capital 2014 resolved on january 28, 2014, permits                                  lion no par value shares (representing up to € 600 million
the increase of capital stock by up to € 528.6 million or 176.2 mil-                           capital stock increase) against contribution in cash until
                                                                                               ­
lion shares for contributions in cash or in kind until january 27,                             ­jan­uary 2015.
2019. authorized capital 2011 permits the increase of capital
stock by up to € 90 million or 30 million shares for contributions                             conditional capital 2011 was cancelled on january 28, 2014,
in cash until january 24, 2016; new shares are solely issuable to                              which permitted the issuance of convertible bonds and / or
employees of siemens. authorized capital 2009 expired on jan-                                   ­warrant bonds in aggregate of up to € 15 billion, entitling the
uary 26, 2014; it permitted the issuance of up to 173.6 million                                 holders to subscribe to up to 90 million no par value shares
shares, equaling € 520.8 million.                                                              (representing up to € 270 million capital stock increase). condi-
                                                                                               tional capital to service the 2001 and 1999 siemens stock
conditional capital (not issued)                                                               ­option plans was cancelled on january 28, 2014, since the last
conditional capital is primarily provided for the purpose of                                    tranche of stock options expired in november 2010 and from
serving the issuance of bonds with conversion rights and (or)                                   that date on, no further shares were to be issued. it amounted
with warrants; subscription rights are or may be excluded:                                      to € 157 million, representing 52.32 million shares.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                            289
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      treasury shares                                                                      in fiscal 2014 and 2013, siemens repurchased 11,331,922 trea-
      until january 24, 2016, the company is authorized by its share-                      sury shares and 17,150,820 treasury shares at average costs per
      holders to acquire treasury shares of up to 10 % of its capital                      share of € 95.27 and € 78.66, respectively. in fiscal 2014 and
      stock as of the date of the shareholders’ resolution or, if this                     2013, siemens transferred 3,584,370 shares and 3,878,899
      value is less, 10 % of capital stock as of the date on which the                     shares, respectively, in connection with share-based payment
      authorization is exercised. repurchased shares may only be                           plans. as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the company has
      used for purposes stipulated in the articles of association of                       treasury shares of 45,745,147 and 37,997,595, respectively.
      siemens ag.
                                                                                           other comprehensive income,
       in november 2013, siemens announced a share buyback of up                           net of income taxes
      to € 4 billion ending latest on october 31, 2015. buybacks are                       the changes in line item other comprehensive income, net of
      made under the current authorization, which allows for further                       income taxes including non-controlling interest holders are as
      share repurchases of a maximum of 47.8 million shares as                             follows:
      of the date of the buyback announcement. siemens started to
      ­repurchase shares in may 2014.




                                                                                                     year ended september 30, 2014                year ended september 30, 2013
       (in millions of €)                                                                       pretax     tax effect          net          pretax      tax effect         net
       items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
        remeasurements of defined benefit plans                                                    39           249           288             543           (149)         394
       items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
        unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets                  (31)          (13)           (44)           182              (3)        179
        reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in net income                    (12)             –           (12)              4              1            4
       net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets                       (43)          (13)           (56)           185              (2)        183
        unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments                           (394)            92           (301)           142            (48)           94
        reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in net income                    (24)           10            (14)           (70)            21           (50)
       net unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments                        (418)           102           (316)            72            (27)           45
       foreign-currency translation differences                                                  940               –          940          (1,062)              –      (1,062)
                                                                                                 480             89           569            (805)           (29)        (834)
       other comprehensive income                                                                519            338           857            (262)          (178)        (440)




      miscellaneous                                                                        ­ ayments. payment of the proposed dividend is contingent
                                                                                           p
      under the german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz), the                           upon approval by the shareholders at the annual shareholders’
      amount of dividends available for distribution to shareholders                       meeting on january 27, 2015.
      is based upon the earnings of siemens ag as reported in its
      statutory financial statements determined in accordance with
      the german commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch). in fiscal                            note 26       additional capital disclosures
      2014, siemens ag management distributed to its shareholders
      an ordinary dividend of € 2,533 million (€ 3.00 per share) of                        siemens believes that sustainable revenue and profit develop-
      the fiscal 2013 earnings to its shareholders. in fiscal 2013,                        ment is supported by a healthy capital structure. a key consid-
      siemens ag management distributed an ordinary dividend of                            eration of our capital structure management is to maintain
      € 2,528 million (€ 3.00 per share) of the fiscal 2012 earnings to                    ready access to the capital markets through various debt prod-
      its shareholders.                                                                    ucts and to preserve our ability to repay and service our debt
                                                                                           obligations over time. in fiscal 2014, siemens set a capital struc-
      the managing board and the supervisory board proposed a div-                         ture target range of 0.5 – 1.0. the ratio is defined as the item
      idend of € 3.30 per share of the fiscal 2014 siemens ag earnings,                    industrial net debt divided by the item adjusted ebitda
      in total representing approximately €2.7 billion in expected                         (­continuing operations). this financial performance measure




      108   a.   to our shareholders                        131   b.    corporate ­governance                           171   c.      combined ­management report
290

indicates the approximate amount of time in years that would
be needed to cover industrial net debt through continuing                                                                                                                       september 30,
­income, without taking into account interest, taxes, deprecia-                                        (in millions of €)                                                2014           2013
 tion and amortization.                                                                                allocated equity                                                 2,148         1,938
                                                                                                       sfs debt                                                        18,663        15,600
siemens calculates the item industrial net debt as set forth in                                        debt to equity ratio                                              8.69           8.05
the table below:



                                                                                september 30,        to measure capital efficiency at sfs, equity capital is allocated
 (in millions of €)                                                       2014           2013        to sfs. allocated equity capital differs from book capital as it is
 short-term debt and current maturities of                                                           mainly determined and influenced by the size and quality of its
 ­long-term debt 1                                                       1,620         1,944
                                                                                                     portfolio of commercial finance as well as project and struc-
 plus: long-term debt 1                                               19,326          18,509
                                                                                                     tured finance ­assets (primarily loans and leases) and equity
 less: cash and cash equivalents                                      (8,013)         (9,190)
                                                                                                     investments. this allocation is designed to cover the risks of
 less: current available-for-sale financial assets                       (925)           (601)
                                                                                                     the underlying business. the actual risk of the sfs portfolio is
 net debt                                                             12,008          10,663
                                                                                                     evaluated and controlled on a regular basis.
 less: sfs debt 2                                                   (18,663)         (15,600)
 plus: post-employment benefits 3                                        9,324         9,265
                                                                                                     in november 2013, siemens announced that siemens intends
 plus: credit guarantees                                                  774             622
                                                                                                     to further optimize the company’s capital structure through a
 less: 50% nominal amount hybrid bond 4                                  (932)           (899)
                                                                                                     share buyback of up to € 4 billion in volume in the time ­period
 less: fair value hedge accounting ­adjustment 5                      (1,121)         (1,247)
                                                                                                     until october 31, 2015. in may 2014, we started to repurchase
 industrial net debt                                                     1,390         2,805
                                                                                                     shares. the share buyback serves exclusively the purpose of
 adjusted ebitda (continuing operations)                                 9,139         8,097
 industrial net debt / adjusted ebitda
                                                                                                     retiring shares and reducing capital, for issuing shares to
 (continuing operations)                                                  0.15           0.35        ­employees, board members of associated companies and mem-
                                                                                                      bers of the managing board, and for meeting obligations under
       1 the item short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as well as the            convertible and / or warrant bonds. for additional information,
          item long-term debt included, in total, fair value hedge accounting adjustments
          of €1,121 million and €1,247 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively.
                                                                                                      see     note 25 equit y .

       2 the adjustment considers that both moody’s and s&p view sfs as a captive finance
          company. these rating agencies generally recognize and accept higher levels
          of debt attributable to captive finance subsidiaries in determining credit ratings.
                                                                                                     in fiscal 2015, siemens may again fulfill commitments for
          following this concept, siemens excludes sfs debt in order to derive an industrial         share-based compensation through treasury shares.
          net debt which is not affected by sfs’s financing activities.
       3 to reflect siemens’ total post-employment benefit liability, industrial net debt
          includes line item post-employment benefits as presented in the consolidated               a key factor in maintaining a strong financial profile is our
          statements of financial position.
                                                                                                     credit rating which is affected by, among other factors,
       4 the adjustment for our hybrid bond considers the calculation of this financial ratio
          applied by rating agencies to classify 50% of our hybrid bond as equity and 50% as         siemens’ capital structure, profitability, ability to generate cash
          debt. this assignment reflects the characteristics of our hybrid bond such as a long
          maturity date and subordination to all senior and debt obligations.
                                                                                                     flows, geographic and product diversification and siemens’
       5 debt is generally reported with a value representing approximately the amount to           competitive market position. siemens’ current corporate credit
          be repaid. however, for debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value
          hedges), this amount is adjusted for changes in market value mainly due to changes
                                                                                                     ratings from moody ’s investors service (moody ’s) and stan-
          in interest rates. accordingly, siemens deducts these changes in market value in           dard & poor’s ratings services (s & p) are noted as follows:
          order to end up with an amount of debt that approximately will be repaid. siemens
          believes this is a more meaningful figure for the calculation presented above.



                                                                                                                                      september 30, 2014                 september 30, 2013
sfs’ capital structure differs from the capital structure of                                                                     moody’s              s&p          moody’s               s&p
                                                                                                                                investors                         investors
siemens’ industrial business, as sfs’ business is capital inten-                                                                  service                           service
sive and requires a larger amount of debt to finance its opera-                                        long-term debt               aa3               a+                aa3              a+
tions, in particular to finance sfs’s expanding asset base. the                                        short-term debt                p -1          a -1+                p -1          a -1+
following table provides information on the capital structure of
sfs as of september 30, 2014 and 2013:




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                  337    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                291
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                      252    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income       254    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position         330    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      moody’s made no rating changes in fiscal 2014. moody’s long-                     in addition, siemens provides credit guarantees generally as
      term credit rating for siemens is “aa3” and the rating outlook is                guarantees for credit-lines with variable utilization for obliga-
      “negative.” within moody ’s long-term credit rating scale, the                   tions of joint ventures and associates accounted for using the
      classification “aa” is the second highest category. the numeri-                  equity method. the maximum amount of these guarantees is
      cal modifier “3” indicates a ranking in the lower end of that                    equal to the outstanding balance of the credit or, in case where
      ­category. the rating outlook is an opinion regarding the likely                 a credit line is subject to variable utilization, the nominal
       direction of an issuer’s long-term credit rating over the                       amount of the credit line. these guarantees have terms up to
       medium-­term. rating outlooks of moody’s fall into the follow-                  19 years and twelve years, respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013.
       ing six categories: “positive,” “negative,” “stable,” “developing,”             except for statutory recourse provisions against the primary
       “ratings under review” or “no outlook.”                                         debtor, credit guarantees are generally not subject to additional
                                                                                       contractual recourse provisions. the company accrued € 49 mil-
      moody’s short-term credit rating is “p-1.” the classification “p-1”              lion and € 38 million relating to credit guarantees as of septem-
      is the highest available rating in the prime rating system of                    ber 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively.
      moody’s, which assesses issuers’ ability to honor senior finan-
      cial obligations and contracts. it applies to senior unsecured                   furthermore, siemens issues guarantees of third-party perfor-
      obligations with an original maturity of less than one year.                     mance, which include performance bonds and guarantees of
                                                                                       advanced payments in cases where siemens is the general or
      s & p made also no rating changes in fiscal 2014. s & p’s long-                  subsidiary partner in a consortium. in the event of non-fulfill-
      term credit rating for siemens is “a+” and the rating outlook is                 ment of contractual obligations by the consortium partner(s),
      “stable.” within s & p’s long-term credit rating scale, “a” is the               siemens will be required to pay up to an agreed-upon maxi-
      third highest long-term rating category. the modifier “+” indi-                  mum amount. these agreements span the term of the con-
      cates that our long-term debt ranks in the upper end of the “a”                  tract, typically ranging from three months to ten years in fiscal
      category. rating outlooks of s & p fall into the following four                  2014 and 2013. generally, consortium agreements provide for
      categories: “positive,” “negative,” “stable” or “developing.” s & p’s            fallback guarantees as a recourse provision among the consor-
      short-term rating is “a-1+,” which is the highest rating within                                                                        ­ ompany
                                                                                       tium partners. as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the c
      s & p’s short-term rating scale.                                                 accrued € 3 million and € 66 million, respectively, relating to
                                                                                       performance guarantees.

      note 27      commitments and contingencies                                       in fiscal 2007, the federal republic of germany commissioned a
                                                                                       consortium consisting of siemens and ibm deutschland gmbh
      guarantees and other commitments                                                 (ibm) to modernize and operate the non-military information
      the following table presents the undiscounted amount of                          and communications technology of the german federal armed
      ­maximum potential future payments for each major group of                       forces (bundeswehr). this project is called herkules. a project
       guarantees:                                                                     company, bwi informationstechnik gmbh (bwi), provides the
                                                                                       services required by the terms of the contract. siemens is a
                                                                                       shareholder in the project company. the total contract value
                                                                   september 30,       amounts to a maximum of approximately €6 billion. in connec-
       (in millions of €)                                   2014            2013       tion with this project, siemens issued several guarantees con-
       guarantees                                                                      nected to each other legally and economically in favor of the
        credit guarantees                                   774             622        federal republic of germany and of the consortium member
        guarantees of third-party performance           2,061             1,593        ibm in december 2006. the guarantees ensure that bwi has
        herkules obligations                            1,490             1,890        ­sufficient resources to provide the required services and to fulfill
        other                                           2,362             1,864         its contractual obligations. these guarantees are listed as a sepa­
                                                        6,687             5,970         rate item herkules obligations in the table above due to their
                                                                                        compound and multilayer nature. total ­future payments poten-
                                                                                        tially required by siemens amount to € 1.49 billion and €1.89 bil-
                                                                                        lion as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively and will be
      item credit guarantees cover the financial obligations of third                   reduced by approximately € 400 million per year over the re-
      parties in cases where siemens is the vendor and (or) contrac-                   maining three-year contract p   ­ eriod as of september 30, 2014.
      tual partner. these guarantees generally provide that in the                      yearly payments under these guarantees are limited to €400 mil-
      event of default or non-payment by the primary debtor,                            lion plus, if applicable, a maximum of €90 million in unused
      siemens will be required to settle such financial obligations.                    guarantees carried forward from the prior year.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.      corporate ­governance                     171   c.   combined ­management report
292

item other includes indemnifications issued in connection                                        completion of the power plant has been delayed for reasons
with dispositions of business entities. such indemnifications, if                                which are in dispute. in december 2008, the supplier consor-
customary to the relevant transactions, may protect the buyer                                    tium filed a request for arbitration against tvo demanding an
from potential tax, legal and other risks in conjunction with the                                extension of the construction time, additional compensation,
purchased business entity. indemnifications include those for                                    milestone payments, damages and interest. in 2013, the sup-
unify (en), disposed of in fiscal 2008 and siemens it solutions                                  plier consortium increased its monetary claims to € 2.71 billion.
and services disposed of in fiscal 2011. as of september 30,                                     tvo rejected the claims and made counterclaims against the
2014 and 2013, the total amount accrued for guarantees in item                                   supplier consortium consisting primarily of damages due to
other is € 168 million and € 242 million, respectively.                                          the delay. as of september 2012, tvo’s counterclaims amounted
                                                                                                 to € 1.59 billion based on a delay of up to 56 months. in octo-
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, future payment obligations                                    ber 2014, tvo estimated that its counterclaims, based on a de-
under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:                                           lay of 116 months, may be increased to € 2.3 billion in calendar
                                                                                                 year 2015. the supplier consortium increased its monetary
                                                                                                 claims in october 2014 to € 3.39 billion. the arbitration proceed-
                                                                            september 30,        ings may continue for several years. the amounts claimed by
 (in millions of €)                                                  2014            2013        the parties may be updated further.
 within one year                                                     815              807
 after one year but not more than five years                     1,574             1,556         as previously reported, essent wind nordsee ost planungs-
 more than five years                                                828              757        und betriebsgesellschaft mbh filed a request for arbitration
                                                                 3,217             3,120         against siemens ag in october 2013 alleging breaches of a con-
                                                                                                 tract for the delivery of a high voltage substation entered into
                                                                                                 by the parties in 2010. the claimant claims damages in an
                                                                                                 amount of € 256 million plus interest and a determination that
total operating rental expense for the years ended septem-                                       siemens ag shall be liable for any further damages claimed to
ber 30, 2014 and 2013 were € 1,122 million and € 1,049 million,                                  amount to € 152 million. siemens ag filed a motion to dismiss
respectively. total sublease income amounts to € 51 million and                                  the request for arbitration. in addition, siemens filed counter-
€ 62 million, respectively in fiscal 2014 and 2013. total future                                 claims of € 48 million plus interest and requested a determina-
minimum sublease payments expected to be received under                                          tion concerning compensation for all future damages.
non-cancellable subleases as of september 30, 2014 and 2013
amount to € 94 million and € 139 million, respectively.                                          during fiscal year 2014 siemens industrial turbomachinery ltd.,
                                                                                                 uk was sued before an iranian court. the alleged damage claims
as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the company has commit-                                       are not quantified. siemens will defend itself against the action.
ments to make capital contributions to the equity of various
companies of € 132 million and € 223 million, respectively.                                      proceedings out of or in connection
                                                                                                 with alleged compliance violations
the company is jointly and severally liable and has capital con-                                 as previously reported, siemens ag agreed on a settlement
tribution obligations as a partner in commercial partnerships                                    with nine out of eleven former members of the managing and
and as a participant in various consortiums.                                                     supervisory board in january 2010. the settlement relates to
                                                                                                 claims of breaches of organizational and supervisory duties
                                                                                                 in view of the accusations of illegal business practices that oc-
note 28       legal proceedings                                                                  curred in the course of international business transactions
                                                                                                 in calendar 2003 to 2006 and the resulting financial burdens
proceedings out of or in connection                                                              for the company. in january 2013, siemens ag agreed on a
with alleged breaches of contract                                                                ­
                                                                                                 settlement with dr. thomas ganswindt. in august 2014,
as previously reported, siemens ag is a member of a supplier                                     siemens ag reached a settlement with mr. joachim neubürger.
consortium that has been contracted to construct the nuclear                                     the ­settlement is subject to the approval of the annual share­
power plant “olkiluoto 3” in finland for teollisuuden voima oyj                                  holders’ meeting of siemens ag and will terminate the litiga-
(tvo) on a turnkey basis. the agreed completion date for the                                     tion ­proceeding.
nuclear power plant was april 30, 2009. siemens ag’s share of
the contract value is approximately 27 %. the other member of                                    as previously reported in july 2008, hellenic telecommunica-
the supplier consortium is a further consortium consisting of                                    tions organization s.a. (ote) filed a lawsuit against siemens ag
areva np s.a.s. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, areva gmbh.                                     with the district court of munich, germany, seeking to compel




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                      293
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5     consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6     notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7     supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      siemens ag to disclose the outcome of its internal investiga-               siemens ag and other companies that allegedly formed a cartel
      tions with respect to ote. ote seeks to obtain information with             in the israeli gas insulated switchgear market in the amount of
      respect to allegations of undue influence and / or acts of bribery          ils 3.8 billion (approximately € 800 million). siemens ag is
      in connection with contracts concluded between siemens ag                   ­defending itself against the actions.
      and ote from calendar 1992 to 2006. at the end of july 2010,
      ote expanded its claim and requested payment of damages by                  as previously reported, claims are being asserted against
      siemens ag of at least € 57 million to ote for alleged bribery              siemens in connection with a decision of the e   ­ uropean com-
      payments to ote employees. at the end of october 2014 ote                   mission rendered in january 2007 regarding antitrust violations
      increased its damage claim to the amount of at least € 68 mil-              in the high-voltage gas-insulated switchgear market, which has
      lion. siemens ag continues to defend itself against the ex-                 become binding and final. among such claims is a claim as-
      panded claim.                                                                         ­ ational grid electricity transmission plc. (national
                                                                                  serted by n
                                                                                  grid) with the high court of england and wales in novem-
      as previously reported, in june 2008, the republic of iraq filed            ber 2008. the parties are no longer in dispute with each other
      an action requesting unspecified damages against 93 named                   and settled the high court action in fiscal year 2014.
      defendants with the united states district court for the south-
      ern district of new york on the basis of findings made in the               as previously reported, in may 2013, siemens ltda. in brazil
      “report of the independent inquiry committee into the united                (siemens ltda. brazil) e ­ ntered into a leniency agreement with
      nations oil-for-food programme.” siemens s.a.s. france,                     the administrative council for economic defense (cade) and
      siemens sanayi ve ticaret a.s., turkey, and the former siemens              other relevant brazilian authorities relating to possible anti-
      subsidiary osram middle east fze, dubai, are among the 93                   trust violations in connection with several brazilian metro
      named defendants. in february 2013, the trial court dismissed               transport projects. in march 2014, cade commenced adminis-
      the republic of iraq’s action. the republic of iraq appealed the            trative proceedings, confirming siemens ltda. brazil’s immu-
      decision, which was then affirmed by the court of appeals. the              nity from administrative fines for the reported potential mis-
      republic of iraq thereafter petitioned for an “en banc” review of           conduct. in connection with the above mentioned metro
      the appellate decision. the court of appeals has not yet granted            transport projects, several brazilian authorities initiated inves-
      the ­request for review.                                                    tigations relating to alleged criminal acts (corruptive payments,
                                                                                  anti-competitive conduct, undue influence on public tenders).
      as previously reported, in september 2011, the israeli antitrust            in march 2014, siemens ltda. brazil signed an agreement with
      authority requested that siemens present its legal position                 the public prosecutor’s office of the state of são paulo (“public
      ­regarding an alleged anti-competitive arrangement between                  prosecutor’s office são paulo”) that formalizes and structures
       april 1988 and april 2004 in the field of gas-insulated switch-            the cooperation in the investigations.
         gear. in september 2013, the israeli antitrust authority con-
       cluded that siemens ag was a party to an illegal restrictive               in march 2014, siemens was informed that in connection with
       ­arrangement regarding the israeli gas-insulated switchgear                the above mentioned metro transport projects the public pros-
        market between 1988 and 2004, with an interruption from                   ecutor’s office são paulo has requested criminal proceedings at
        ­october 1999 to february 2002. the company appealed against              court into alleged violations of brazilian antitrust law against a
         this decision in may 2014.                                               number of individuals including current and former siemens
                                                                                  employees.
      based on the above mentioned conclusion of the israeli anti-
      trust authority, two electricity consumer groups filed each a               in may 2014 the public prosecutor’s office são paulo initiated a
      motion to certify a class action for cartel damages against a               law suit against siemens ltda. brazil as well as other companies
      number of companies including siemens ag with an israeli                    and several individuals in the amount of brl 2.5 billion
      ­district court in september 2013. both class actions seek com-             (­approximately € 800 million) in relation to a train refurbish-
       pensation for alleged damages, which are claimed to be in a                ment project that is not part of the above cooperation agree-
       range of ils 2 billion (approximately € 400 million) to ils                ment. a technical note issued by the brazilian cartel authority
       2.8 billion (approximately € 600 million). in addition, the israel         cade earlier in calendar 2014 had not identified any anticompet-
       electric corporation (iec) filed at the end of december 2013 a             itive wrongdoing by siemens ltda. brazil in relation to this proj-
       separate claim for damages with the israeli state court against                                                                      ­ ction.
                                                                                  ect. siemens ltda. brazil is defending itself against the a




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.   combined ­management report
294

it cannot be excluded that further significant damages claims                                  in addition to the investigations and legal proceedings described
will be brought by customers or the state against siemens based                                ­above, siemens ag and its subsidiaries have been named as de-
on the outcome of the above mentioned ­investigations.                                          fendants in various other legal actions and proceedings ­arising
                                                                                                in connection with their activities as a global diversified group.
as previously reported, cade is conducting – unrelated to the                                   some of these pending proceedings have been previously dis-
above mentioned proceedings – two further investigations into                                   closed. some of the legal actions include claims or potential
possible antitrust behavior in the field of gas-insulated and                                   claims for compensatory and in some cases punitive damages
air-insulated switchgear in the 1990’s calendar years to 2006.                                  for indeterminate amounts. siemens is from time to time also
siemens is cooperating with the authorities.                                                    involved in regulatory or other investigations in several jurisdic-
                                                                                                tions beyond those described above. siemens cooperates with
as previously reported, in august 2013, a brazilian appellate                                   the relevant authorities and, where appropriate, conducts inter-
court upheld a decision to suspend siemens ltda. brazil from                                    nal investigations with the assistance of in-house and external
participating in public tenders and signing contracts with                                      counsel. in some instances, criminal or civil sanctions could be
­public a ­ dministrations in brazil for a five year term, based on                             brought against the company itself or against certain of its em-
 ­alleged ­irregularities in calendar 1999 and 2004 public tenders                              ployees in connection with possible violations of law. in addi-
  with the brazilian postal authorities. siemens ltda. brazil has                               tion, the scope of pending investigations may be expanded and
  further appealed the decision. in march 2014, upon request of                                 new investigations commenced in connection with allegations
  siemens ltda. brazil, said exclusion from public tenders and                                  of bribery or other illegal acts. the company’s operating activi-
  contracts was temporarily suspended until a final court deci-                                 ties, financial results and reputation may also be negatively
  sion is reached.                                                                              ­affected, particularly as a result of penalties, fines, disgorge-
                                                                                                 ments, compensatory damages, third-party litigation, including
as previously reported, the vienna public prosecutor in austria                                  with competitors, the formal or informal exclusion from public
is conducting an investigation into payments between calendar                                    invitations to tender, or the loss of business licenses or permits.
1999 and calendar 2006 relating to siemens ag österreich for                                     additional expenses and provisions, which could be material,
which adequate services rendered could not be identified. in                                     may need to be recorded in the future for penalties, fines, dam-
september 2011, the vienna public prosecutor extended the                                        ages or other charges in connection with the investigations.
investigations to include a tax evasion matter for which
­                                                                                                given the number of legal actions and other proceedings to
siemens ag österreich is potentially liable. siemens is cooper-                                  which siemens is subject, some may result in adverse decisions.
ating with the authorities.                                                                      siemens contests actions and proceedings when it considers it
                                                                                                 appropriate. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the
as previously reported, the inter-american development bank                                      outcome of such matters, particularly in cases in which claim-
(iadb) conducted administrative proceedings in two latin-­                                       ants seek indeterminate damages, siemens may not be able to
american countries against, among others, siemens alleging                                       predict what the eventual loss or range of loss related to such
misconduct in connection with public invitations to tender in                                    matters will be. the final resolution of the matters discussed in
calendar 2003. in april 2014, a settlement was reached with the                                  this paragraph could have a material effect on siemens’ busi-
iadb which involves a payment of a single digit million €                                        ness, results of operations and financial condition for any report-
amount and a voluntary restraint from iadb-­financed projects                                    ing period in which an adverse decision is rendered. there can
for three years by two latin-american businesses, one of which                                   be no assurance that the results of any additional legal matter
is no longer owned by siemens.                                                                   not separately discussed in this paragraph will not have a mate-
                                                                                                 rial negative impact on the company’s net worth, financial con-
for legal proceedings information required under ias 37, provi-                                  dition and operational results. however, siemens currently does
sions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets is not dis-                                  not expect its net worth, financial condition or operational
closed, if the company concludes that the disclosure can be                                      ­results to be materially affected by such additional legal matters
expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the litigation.                                    not separately discussed in this paragraph.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       295
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

            additional disclosures on financial
      note 29

      instruments
      the following table presents the carrying amounts of each
      ­category of financial ­­assets and financial liabilities:



                                                                                                                                                                                                 september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                  2014                           2013
       financial ­­assets:
        loans and receivables                                                                                                                                          32,281                         29,331
        cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                        8,013                         9,190
        derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship                                                                                                         574                            625
        financial ­­assets held for trading                                                                                                                              1,995                         1,705
        available-for-sale financial ­­assets                                                                                                                            2,728                         2,161
                                                                                                                                                                       45,591                         43,010


       financial liabilities:
        financial liabilities measured at amortized cost                                                                                                              30,128                         29,704
        financial liabilities held for trading                                                                                                                           1,338                            887
        derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship                                                                                                         411                            160
                                                                                                                                                                       31,877                         30,751




      the following table presents the fair values and carrying
                           ­ ssets and financial liabilities measured at
      amounts of financial a
      cost or amortized cost:



                                                                                                                                                         september 30, 2014              september 30, 2013
                                                                                                                                                                       carrying                       carrying
       (in millions of €)                                                                                                                          fair value          amount       fair value        amount

       financial ­assets measured at cost or amortized cost
        trade and other receivables 1                                                                                                               12,558             12,558        12,944           12,944
        receivables from finance leases                                                                                                                 5,345            5,345         5,261           5,261
        cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                       8,013            8,013         9,190           9,190
        other non-derivative financial ­assets                                                                                                      14,378             14,378        11,126           11,126
        available-for-sale financial ­assets 2                                                                                                                –            192              –             167


       financial liabilities measured at cost or amortized cost
        notes and bonds                                                                                                                             18,787             18,165        18,742           18,491
        trade payables 3                                                                                                                                7,594            7,594         7,599           7,599
        loans from banks and other financial indebtedness                                                                                               2,635            2,652         1,821           1,832
        obligations under finance leases                                                                                                                 186               130           167              130
        other non-derivative financial liabilities                                                                                                      1,588            1,588         1,651           1,651


             1 consists of (1) € 12,537 million and € 12,932 million trade           the sale of goods and services of € 788 million and          3 as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, trade payables of
                receivables from the sale of goods and services in fiscal             € 686 million have a remaining term of more than twelve         € 40 million and € 32 million have a remaining term of
                2014 and 2013, respectively, as well as (2) € 20 million              months.                                                         more than twelve months.
                and € 11 million receivables included in line item other
                                                                                2 consists of equity instruments classified as available-­for-
                financial ­assets in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. as
                                                                                   sale, for which a fair value could not be reliably measured
                of september 30, 2014 and 2013, trade receivables from
                                                                                   ­and which are therefore recognized at cost.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                                      131    b.       corporate ­governance                                   171    c.       combined ­management report
296

cash and cash equivalents includes € 429 million and € 320 mil-                                financial instruments categorized as financial ­        assets and
 lion as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, which are                               ­finan­cial liabilities measured at fair value are presented in the
not available for use by siemens mainly due to minimum                                          following table:
­reserve requirements with banks.

as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amount of                                                                                                                   september 30,
­financial ­assets siemens has pledged as collateral amounted to                                 (in millions of €)                                                  2014           2013
 € 271 million and € 344 million, respectively.                                                  financial ­assets measured at fair value
                                                                                                  available-for-sale financial ­assets                             2,536         1,994
the carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade and                                      derivative financial instruments                                 2,569         2,330
other receivables and trade payables with a remaining term of                                      not designated in a hedge accounting
                                                                                                    ­relationship                                                   1,783         1,587
                                             ­ ssets and liabili-
up to twelve months, other current financial a
                                                                                                   in connection with fair value hedges
ties represent a reasonable approximation of their fair values,                                     (mainly interest rate derivatives)                               476            472
mainly due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.                                      in connection with cash flow hedges (main-
                                                                                                    ly foreign currency exchange derivatives)                         98            153
fixed-rate and variable-rate receivables with a remaining term                                     embedded derivatives                                             212            118
of more than twelve months, including receivables from                                                                                                              5,105         4,324
­finance leases, are evaluated by the company based on para­
 meters such as interest rates, specific country risk factors, indi-                             financial liabilities measured at fair value
 vidual creditworthiness of the customer, and the risk character-                                 derivative financial instruments                                 1,749         1,047
 istics of the financed project. based on this evaluation,                                         not designated in a hedge accounting
                                                                                                    ­relationship                                                   1,308           765
 allowances for these receivables are recognized. as of septem-
                                                                                                   in connection with fair value hedges                               5               8
 ber 30, 2014 and 2013, the carrying amounts of such receiv-
                                                                                                   in connection with cash flow hedges (main-
 ables, net of allowances, approximate their fair values.                                           ly foreign currency exchange derivatives)                        406            152
                                                                                                   embedded derivatives                                              30            122
the fair value of notes and bonds is based on prices provided                                                                                                       1,749         1,047
by price service agencies at the p ­ eriod-end date (level 2). the
fair value of loans from banks and other financial indebted-
ness, obligations under finance leases as well as other non-­
current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future                                                                              ­ ssets quoted in an
                                                                                               the fair value of available-for-sale financial a
cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar                                 active market is based on price quotations at the p     ­ eriod-end
terms and remaining maturities (level 2).                                                      date. the fair value of debt instruments is either based on
                                                                                               prices provided by price service agencies or estimated by dis-
                                                                                               counting future cash flows using current market interest rates.

                                                                                               the company limits default risks resulting from derivative
                                                                                               financial instruments by a careful counterparty selection.
                                                                                               ­
                                                                                               ­derivative financial instruments are generally transacted with
                                                                                                financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. the
                                                                                                fair valuation of derivative financial instruments at siemens
                                                                                                incorporates all factors that market participants would con-
                                                                                                sider. this includes credit risks for which a credit valuation
                                                                                                ­adjustment is determined based on siemens’ net exposure
                                                                                                 ­towards each counter­party. the exact calculation of fair values
                                                                                                  of derivative financial instruments depends on the specific
                                                                                                  type of instrument:




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              337   e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                            297
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      derivative interest rate contracts – the fair values of derivative
      interest rate contracts (e.g. interest rate swap agreements) are                                                                                            september 30, 2013
      estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using cur-                             (in millions of €)                           level 1   level 2    level 3     total

      rent market interest rates and yield curves over the remaining                             financial ­assets measured
                                                                                                 at fair value
      term of the instrument. interest rate futures and interest rate
                                                                                                  available-for-sale financial ­assets        1,612       382           –    1,994
      options are valued on the basis of quoted market prices when
                                                                                                   equity instruments                         1,612          –          –    1,612
      available. if quoted market prices are not available, interest rate
                                                                                                   debt instruments                                –      382           –      382
      options are valued based on option pricing models.
                                                                                                  derivative financial instruments                 –    2,330           –    2,330
                                                                                                 total                                        1,612     2,712           –    4,324
      derivative currency contracts – the fair value of foreign cur-
                                                                                                 financial liabilities measured
      rency exchange contracts is based on forward exchange rates.                               at fair value
      currency options are valued on the basis of quoted market                                   derivative financial instruments                 –    1,047           –    1,047
      prices or on estimates based on option pricing models.

      derivative commodity contracts – the fair value of commodity
      swaps is based on forward commodity prices. commodity                                 the levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to our
      ­options are valued on the basis of quoted market prices or on                        financial ­assets and financial liabilities are described below:
       estimates based on option pricing models.
                                                                                                   level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical a
                                                                                                                                                          ­ ssets
      the warrants issued together with us$ 3 billion bonds in fiscal                              or liabilities;
      2012 are valued based on an option pricing model. the most
      significant inputs used are the underlying siemens and osram                                 level 2: inputs other than quoted prices that are observ-
      share price and the implied volatility.                                                      able for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices)
                                                                                                   or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
      in determining the fair values of the derivative financial instru-
      ments, no compensating effects from underlying transactions                                  level 3: inputs for ­assets or liabilities, not based on observ-
      (e.g. firm commitments and forecast transactions) are taken                                  able market data.
      into consideration.
                                                                                            the unquoted equity instrument allocated to level 3 of the fair
      the following table allocates financial a    ­ssets and financial                     value hierarchy relates to an investment in an offshore wind
      ­liabilities measured at fair value to the three levels of the fair                   farm. the fair value is determined based on discounted cash
       value hierarchy.                                                                     flow calculations. the most significant unobservable input
                                                                                            used to determine the fair value is the cash flow forecast which
                                                                                            is mainly based on the future power generation income. this
                                                                   september 30, 2014       income is generally subject to future market developments and
       (in millions of €)                      level 1   level 2     level 3     total      thus price volatility. since a long-term power purchase agree-
       financial ­assets measured                                                           ment is in place that mitigates price volatility, significant
       at fair value
                                                                                            changes to the cash flow forecast are unlikely and thus, no
                                     ­ ssets
        available-for-sale financial a         1,527       703          307    2,536
                                                                                            ­significant effects on other comprehensive income, net of
         equity instruments                    1,527          1         307    1,834
                                                                                             ­income taxes, are expected.
         debt instruments                           –      702            –      702
        derivative financial instruments            –    2,569            –    2,569
                                                                                            at the end of the reporting ­ period the company assesses
       total                                   1,527     3,272          307    5,105
                                                                                            whether transfers from one level of the fair value hierarchy to
       financial liabilities measured
       at fair value                                                                        another level have to be made. in fiscal 2014, there were no
        derivative financial instruments            –    1,749            –    1,749        such transfers.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                        131    b.    corporate ­governance                             171    c.     combined ­management report
298

net gains (losses) of financial instruments are as follows:                                      recoveries of amounts previously written-off. net gains (losses)
                                                                                                 in fiscal 2014 and 2013 on financial liabilities measured at amor-
                                                                                                 tized cost are comprised of gains (losses) from derecogni-
                                                               year ended september 30,          tion and the ineffective portion of fair value hedges. net gains
 (in millions of €)                                                    2014          2013        (losses) in fiscal 2014 and 2013 on financial a­ ssets and financial
 cash and cash equivalents                                                  19          (1)      liabilities held for trading consist of changes in the fair value of
 available-for-sale financial ­assets                                       29        (99)       derivative financial instruments, including interest income and
 loans and receivables                                                      58       (172)       expense, for which hedge accounting is not applied.
 financial liabilities measured at amortized cost                     (844)           408
 financial ­assets and financial liabilities                                                     the amounts presented include foreign currency gains and
 held for trading                                                     (283)           370
                                                                                                                                                            ­ ssets
                                                                                                 losses from the realization and valuation of the financial a
                                                                                                 and liabilities mentioned above.

                                                                                                 offsetting
net gains (losses) in fiscal 2014 and 2013 on available-for-sale                                 siemens enters into master netting agreements and similar
financial ­assets include net gains on derecognition as well as                                  agreements for derivative financial instruments and reverse
impairment losses.                                                                               repurchase agreements. the requirements to offset recognized
                                                                                                 financial instruments are usually not met. the following table
net losses on loans and receivables contain changes in valua-                                                       ­ ssets and financial liabilities that are subject
                                                                                                 reflects financial a
tion allowances, gains or losses on derecognition as well as                                     to netting agreements and similar agreements:




                                                                                                                                                                           september 30, 2014
                                                                                            gross amounts            amounts             net amounts                related      net amounts
                                                                                                                 set off in the                   in the     amounts not
                                                                                                                   ­statement              ­statement        set off in the
                                                                                                                  of ­financial           of ­financial        statement
                                                                                                                       ­position               ­position      of ­financial
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                ­position

 financial ­assets
  derivative financial ­assets                                                                     2,364                      7                2,357                  955             1,402
  reverse repurchase agreements                                                                      400                      –                   400                 400                  –
 total                                                                                             2,764                      7                2,757                1,355             1,402
 financial liabilities
  derivative financial liabilities                                                                 1,533                      7                1,526                  905               621




                                                                                                                                                                           september 30, 2013
                                                                                            gross amounts            amounts             net amounts                related      net amounts
                                                                                                                 set off in the                   in the     amounts not
                                                                                                                   ­statement              ­statement        set off in the
                                                                                                                  of ­financial           of ­financial        statement
                                                                                                                       ­position               ­position      of ­financial
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                ­position

 financial ­assets
  derivative financial a
                       ­ ssets                                                                     2,234                    22                 2,212                  587             1,625
  reverse repurchase agreements                                                                      100                      –                   100                 100                  –
 total                                                                                             2,334                    22                 2,312                  687             1,625
 financial liabilities
  derivative financial liabilities                                                                   796                    22                    774                 566               208




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                     337    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                299
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   252   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      330   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

            derivative financial instruments
      note 30                                                                                hedging activities
      and hedging activities                                                                 the company’s operating units apply hedge accounting for cer-
                                                                                             tain significant forecast transactions and firm commitments
      as part of the company ’s risk management program, a variety                           denominated in foreign currencies. particularly, the company
      of derivative financial instruments is used to reduce risks                            has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts to reduce
      ­resulting primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency ex-                         the risk of variability of future cash flows resulting from fore-
       change rates, interest rates and commodity prices.                                    cast sales and purchases as well as firm commitments. this risk
                                                                                             results mainly from contracts denominated in us$ both from
      the fair values of each type of derivative financial instruments                       siemens’ operating units entering into long-term contracts,
                            ­ ssets or financial liabilities are as follows:
      recorded as financial a                                                                e.g. project business, and from the standard product business.

                                                                                             cash flow hedges – as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the
                                       september 30, 2014           september 30, 2013       ­ineffective portion of cash flow hedges is not significant indi-
       (in millions of €)               asset     liability          asset     liability      vidually or in aggregate.
       foreign currency exchange
       contracts                         352         901              416         331
                                                                                             periods in which the hedged forecast transactions or the firm
       interest rate swaps and
                                                                                             commitments denominated in foreign currency are expected to
       combined interest / currency
       swaps                           1,769         456            1,637         261        impact profit or loss:
       commodity swaps                    43           46                35         49
       embedded derivatives              212           30             118         122
       options                           192         316              123         281                                                                    year ended september 30,
       credit default swaps                –             –               –            4                                                                        2017 to 2020 and
                                                                                                  (in millions of €)                        2015       2016      2019 thereafter
                                       2,569      1,749             2,330       1,047
                                                                                                  expected gain (loss)
                                                                                                  to be ­reclassified from line item
                                                                                                  ­other comprehensive income,
                                                                                                   net of income taxes into r­ evenue
                                                                                                   or cost of sales                        (166)       (62)       (94)         6
      foreign currency exchange rate
      risk management
      derivative financial instruments
      not ­designated in a hedging relationship                                              interest rate risk management
      the company manages its risks associated with fluctuations in                                                                                      ­ ssets
                                                                                             interest rate risk arises from the sensitivity of financial a
      foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt, firm                         and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. the company
      commitments and forecast transactions primarily through                                seeks to mitigate that risk by entering into interest rate deriva-
      a company-wide portfolio approach. under this approach the                             tives such as interest rate swaps, options, interest rate futures
      company-wide risks are aggregated centrally, and various                               and forward rate agreements.
      ­derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency
       ­exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and options, are                          derivative financial instruments
        utilized to minimize such risks. such a strategy does not qualify                    not ­designated in a hedging relationship
        for hedge accounting treatment. accordingly, all such deriva-                        for the interest rate risk management relating to the group
        tive financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the con-                    ­excluding sfs’ business, derivative financial instruments are
        solidated statements of financial position, either in line items                      used under a portfolio-based approach to manage interest risk
        other current financial a    ­ ssets (liabilities) or line items other                actively relative to a benchmark. the interest rate management
                  ­ ssets (liabilities); changes in fair values are charged
        financial a                                                                           relating to the sfs business remains to be managed separately,
        to net income (loss).                                                                 considering the term structure of sfs’ financial ­assets and lia-
                                                                                              bilities on a portfolio basis. neither approach qualifies for
      the company also has foreign currency derivatives, which are                            hedge accounting treatment. accordingly, all interest rate de-
      embedded in sale and purchase contracts denominated in a                                rivatives held in this relation are recorded at fair value, either in
      currency that is neither the functional currency of the substan-                        line items other current financial ­assets (liabilities) or in line
      tial parties to the contract nor a currency which is commonly                           items other financial a ­ ssets (liabilities), and changes in the fair
      used in the economic environment in which the contract                                  values are charged to line item other financial income (ex-
      takes place. gains (losses) relating to such embedded foreign                           penses), net. net cash receipts and payments relating to inter-
      ­currency derivatives are reported in line item cost of sales in                        est rate swaps used in offsetting relationships are also recorded
       the consolidated statements of income.                                                 in line item other financial income (expenses), net.



      108   a.   to our shareholders                          131   b.    corporate ­governance                             171   c.    combined ­management report
300

fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt obligations                                               commodity price risk management
under the interest rate swap agreements outstanding during                                     derivative financial instruments not designated
the years ended september 30, 2014 and 2013, the company has                                   in a hedging relationship
agreed to pay a variable rate of interest multiplied by a n   ­ otional                        the company applies a portfolio approach to manage the
principle amount, and receives in return an amount equal to a                                  ­company-wide risks associated with fluctuations in commodity
specified fixed rate of interest multiplied by the same notional                                prices from firm commitments and forecast transactions by
principal amount. these interest rate swap agreements offset                                    ­entering into commodity swaps and commodity options. such
an impact of future changes in interest rates designated as the                                  a strategy does not qualify for hedge accounting ­treatment.
hedged risk on the fair value of the underlying fixed-rate debt
obligations. the interest rate swap contracts are recorded at                                  cash flow hedging activities
fair value in the company’s consolidated statements of finan-                                  the company’s corporate procurement applies cash flow hedge
cial position and the related portion of fixed-rate debt being                                 accounting for certain firm commitments to purchase copper.
hedged is recorded at an amount equal to the sum of its ­carrying                              the ineffective portion as well as resulting gains and (losses)
amount plus an adjustment representing the change in fair                                      were not significant individually or in aggregate.
value of the debt obligations attributable to the respective inter-
est rate risk being hedged. changes in the fair value of interest                              it is expected that € 73 million of net deferred losses in line item
rate swap contracts and the offsetting changes in the adjusted                                 other comprehensive income, net of income taxes will be
carrying amount of the related portion of fixed-rate debt being                                ­reclassified into line item cost of sales in fiscal 2015, when the
hedged are recognized in line item other financial income                                       consumption of the hedged commodity purchases is recog-
(­expenses), net in the consolidated statements of income.                                      nized in line item cost of sales. as of september 30, 2014 and
­adjustments in the carrying amount of the debt obligations                                     2013, the maximum length of time over which the company is
 ­resulted in a gain (loss) of €(8) million and € 293 million, respec­                          hedging its future commodity purchases is 75 months and
  tively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013. during the same p   ­ eriod, the re-                         87 months, respectively.
  lated swap agreements resulted in a gain (loss) of €3 million and
  €(305) million, respectively. accordingly, the net effect recog­
  nized in line item other financial income (expenses), net, repre-                            note 31       financial risk management
  senting the ineffective portion of the hedging relationship,
  amounts to €(5) million and €(12) million, in fiscal 2014 and 2013,                          siemens’ financial risk management is an integral part of how
  respectively. net cash receipts and payments relating to such                                to plan and execute its business strategies. siemens’ financial
  ­interest rate swap agreements are r­ ecorded as interest expenses.                          risk management policy is set by the managing board. siemens’
                                                                                               organizational and accountability structure as of september 30,
the company had interest rate swap contracts to pay variable                                   2014 requires each of the respective managements of siemens
rates of interest of an average of 0.3 % and 0.3 % as of septem-                               sectors, financial services, sre, regions and corporate units
ber 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively and received fixed rates of                                to implement financial risk management programs that are
interest (average rate of 4.0 % and 3.5 %, as of september 30,                                 ­tailored to their specific industries and responsibilities, while
2014 and 2013, respectively). the notional amount of indebted-                                  being consistent with the overall policy established by the
ness hedged as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 was € 6,645 mil-                                  managing board.
lion and € 7,100 million, respectively. this changed 41 % and
41 % of the company ’s underlying notes and bonds from fixed                                   increasing market fluctuations may result in significant earn-
interest rates into variable interest rates as of september 30,                                ings and cash flow volatility risk for siemens. the company ’s
2014 and 2013, respectively. the notional amounts of these                                     operating business as well as its investment and financing
contracts mature at varying dates based on the maturity of the                                 ­activities are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates,
underlying hedged items. the net fair value of interest rate                                    ­interest rates, commodity prices and equity prices. in order to
swap contracts (excluding accrued interest) used to hedge in-                                    optimize the allocation of the financial resources across the
debtedness as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 was € 386 mil-                                      siemens segments and entities, as well as to secure an optimal
lion and € 385 million, respectively.                                                            return for its shareholders, siemens identifies, analyzes and
                                                                                                 proactively manages the associated market risks. the company
                                                                                                 seeks to manage and control these risks primarily through its
                                                                                                 regular operating and financing activities, and uses derivative
                                                                                                 financial instruments when deemed appropriate.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                      301
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      within the various methodologies to analyze and manage risk,                 foreign currency exchange rate risk
      siemens has implemented a system based on parametric vari-                   transaction risk and foreign currency
      ance-covariance value at risk (var). the var methodology pro-                exchange rate risk management
      vides a quantification of market risks based on historical vola-             siemens’ international operations expose the company to
      tilities and correlations of the different risk factors under the            ­foreign currency exchange rate risks, particularly regarding
      assumptions of the parametric variance-covariance value at                    fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the euro, in the ordi-
      risk model. the var figures are calculated based on                           nary course of business. the company employs various strate-
                                                                                    gies discussed below involving the use of derivative financial
      >> historical volatilities and correlations,                                  ­instruments to mitigate or eliminate certain of those ­exposures.
      >> a ten day holding ­period, and
      >> a 99.5 % confidence level                                                foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may create un-
                                                                                   wanted and unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility.
      for foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk,                 each siemens unit conducting businesses with international
      ­commodity price risk and equity price risk as discussed below.              counterparties leading to future cash flows denominated in a
                                                                                   currency other than its functional currency is exposed to risks
      actual results that are included in the consolidated statements              from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. foreign cur-
      of income or consolidated statements of comprehensive                        rency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by purchasing
      ­income may differ substantially from var figures due to funda-              of goods, commodities and services in the respective curren-
       mental conceptual differences. the consolidated statements                  cies as well as production activities and other contributions
       of income and consolidated statements of comprehensive                      along the value chain in the local markets.
       ­income are prepared in accordance with ifrs. the var figures
        are the output of a model with a purely financial perspective              operating units (total sectors and sfs) are prohibited from
        and represent the potential financial loss which will not be               ­borrowing or investing in foreign currencies on a speculative
        ­exceeded within ten days with a probability of 99.5 %. the                 basis. intercompany financing or investments of operating
         ­concept of var is also used for internal management of the                units are preferably carried out in their functional currency or
          ­corporate treasury activities.                                           on a hedged basis.

      although var is an important tool for measuring market risk,                 siemens has established a foreign currency exchange rate risk
      the assumptions on which the model is based give rise to                     management system that has an established track record for
      some limitations including the following. a ten day holding                  years. each siemens unit is responsible for recording, assess-
      ­period assumes that it is possible to dispose of the underlying             ing, monitoring, reporting and hedging its foreign currency
       positions within this p  ­ eriod. while this is considered to be a          transaction exposure. the binding guideline for siemens’ oper-
       realistic assumption in almost all cases, it may not be valid               ating units provides the concept for the identification and
       during prolonged ­periods of severe market illiquidity. a 99.5 %            ­determination of a single net foreign currency position for each
       confidence level does not reflect losses that may occur beyond               affected unit and commits these units to hedge this aggregated
       this level. there is a 0.5 % statistical probability that losses             position within a narrow band of at least 75 % but no more than
       could exceed the calculated var. the use of historical data as               100 % of their net foreign currency position. in addition, the
       a basis for estimating the statistic behavior of the relevant                guideline provides a framework of the organizational structure
       markets and finally determining the possible range of the                    necessary for foreign currency exchange rate risk management,
       ­future outcomes on the basis of this statistic behavior may                 proposes hedging strategies and defines the hedging instru-
        not always cover all possible scenarios, especially those of an             ments available to the entities: foreign currency exchange
        exceptional nature. any market sensitive instruments, including             ­contracts, foreign currency put and call options and stop-loss
        equity and interest bearing investments, that our company’s                  ­orders. if there are no conflicting country specific r­ egulations,
        ­pension plans hold are not included in the following quantita-               hedging activities of the operating units are transacted inter-
         tive and qualitative disclosures.                                            nally with corporate treasury. hedging transactions with exter-
                                                                                      nal counterparties in the global financial markets are carried
                                                                                      out under these limitations by corporate treasury. t­ his includes
                                                                                      hedging instruments which qualify for hedge a  ­ ccounting.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                     171   c.   combined ­management report
302

siemens has a company-wide portfolio approach which gener-                                     interest rate risk
ates a benefit from any potential off-set of divergent cash flows                              interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash
in the same currency, as well as optimized transaction costs.                                  flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of
                                                                                               changes in market interest rates. this risk arises whenever
the var relating to foreign currency exchange rates is calcu-                                                               ­ ssets and liabilities are different. in
                                                                                               ­interest terms of financial a
lated by aggregating the net foreign currency positions after                                   order to optimize the company’s position with regard to inter-
hedging by the operating units. as of september 30, 2014 the                                    est income and interest expenses and to manage the interest
foreign currency exchange rate risk based on historical volatili-                               rate risk, corporate treasury performs a comprehensive corpo-
ties and correlations, a ten day holding p­ eriod and a confidence                              rate interest rate risk management by using derivative financial
level of 99.5 % resulted in a var of € 47 million compared to a                                 instruments. the interest rate risk relating to the group, ex-
var of € 72 million in the year before. the prior-year amount has                               cluding sfs’ business, is mitigated by managing interest rate
been adjusted in order to take into consideration modified                                      risk actively relatively to a benchmark. the interest rate risk
­principles with regard to foreign currency exchange rate risk                                  relating to the sfs’ business is managed separately, consider-
 management. changes in euro values of future cash flows                                        ing the term structure of sfs’s financial a  ­ ssets and liabilities.
 ­denominated in foreign currency due to volatile foreign cur-                                  the company ’s interest rate risk results primarily from the
  rency exchange rates might influence the unhedged portion of                                  funding in u.s. dollar, gbp and euro.
  revenues, but would also affect the unhedged portion of cost of
  materials. future changes in the foreign currency exchange                                   if there are no conflicting country-specific regulations, all
  rates can impact sales prices and may lead to margin changes,                                siemens operating units generally obtain any required financ-
  the extent of which is determined by the matching of foreign                                 ing through corporate treasury in the form of loans or inter-
  currency revenues and expenses.                                                              company clearing accounts. the same concept is adopted for
                                                                                               deposits of cash generated by the units.
siemens defines foreign currency exchange rate exposure
­generally as items of the consolidated statement of financial                                 assuming historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day
 position in addition to firm commitments which are denomi-                                             ­ eriod and a confidence level of 99.5 % the interest rate
                                                                                               ­holding p
 nated in foreign currencies, as well as foreign currency denomi-                               var was € 220 million as of september 30, 2014, compared to
 nated cash inflows and cash outflows from forecast trans­                                      a var of € 236 million in the year before.
 actions for the following twelve months. this foreign currency
 ­exchange rate exposure is determined based on the respective                                 commodity price risk
  functional currencies of the exposed siemens’ entities.                                      siemens’ production operations expose the company to vari-
                                                                                               ous commodity price risks in the ordinary course of business.
effects of foreign currency translation                                                        especially in the sectors industry and energy a continuous
many siemens units are located outside the euro zone. since                                    ­supply of copper was necessary for the operating activities.
the financial reporting currency of siemens is the euro, the                                    commodity price risk fluctuations may create unwanted and
finan­cial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into                                 unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility. the company
euro for the preparation of the consolidated financial state-                                   employs various strategies discussed below involving the use
ments. to consider the effects of foreign currency translation in                               of derivative financial instruments to mitigate or eliminate
the risk management, the general assumption is that invest-                                     ­certain of those exposures.
ments in foreign-based operations are permanent and that re-
investment is continuous. effects from foreign currency                                        siemens has established a commodity price risk management
exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of net asset
­                                                                                              system to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility. each
amounts into euro are reflected in the company’s consolidated                                  siemens unit is responsible for recording, assessing, monitor-
equity position.                                                                               ing, reporting and hedging its risks from forecast and pending
                                                                                               commodity purchase transactions (commodity price risk expo-
                                                                                               sure). the binding guideline for siemens operating units pro-
                                                                                               vides the concept for the identification and determination of
                                                                                               the commodity price risk exposure and commits the units to
                                                                                               hedge it within a narrow band of 75 % to 100 % of the commod-
                                                                                               ity price risk exposure in the product business for the next three
                                                                                               months and 95 % to 100 % of the commodity price risk e   ­ xposure
                                                                                               in the project business after receipt of order. siemens operating
                                                                                               units are prohibited from speculative transactions.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                        303
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      the aggregated commodity price risk exposure is hedged                        in addition to the above-mentioned sources of liquidity,
      with external counterparties through derivative financial hedg-               siemens constantly monitors funding options available in the
      ing instruments by corporate treasury. derivative financial                   capital markets, as well as trends in the availability and costs of
      ­
      hedging instruments designated for hedge accounting are                       such funding, with a view to maintaining financial flexibility
      ­directly entered into with external counterparties. additionally,            and limiting repayment risks.
       siemens applies a company-wide portfolio approach which
       ­optimizes the company’s position of the overall financial com-              the following table reflects all contractually fixed pay-offs for
        modity price risk.                                                          settlement, repayments and interest resulting from recognized
                                                                                    financial liabilities as well as from credit guarantees and irrevo-
      using historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day holding             cable loan commitments. it includes expected net cash out-
      ­period and a confidence level of 99.5 %, the var, which com-                 flows from derivative financial liabilities that are in place as per
       prises the net position of commodity derivatives and the com-                september 30, 2014. such expected net cash outflows are de-
       modity purchase transactions with price risk, was € 13 million               termined based on each particular settlement date of an instru-
       as of september 30, 2014 compared to € 19 million as of septem-              ment. the amounts disclosed are undiscounted net cash out-
       ber 30, 2013. the prior-year amount has been adjusted in order               flows for the respective upcoming fiscal years, based on the
       to take into consideration modified principles with regard to                earliest date on which siemens could be required to pay. cash
       commodity price risk management.                                             outflows for financial liabilities (including interest) without
                                                                                    fixed amount or timing are based on the conditions existing at
      equity price risk                                                             september 30, 2014.
      siemens’ investment portfolio consists of direct and indirect
      investments in publicly traded companies held for purposes
      other than trading. the direct participations result mainly from                                                                            year ended september 30,
      strategic partnerships, strengthening siemens’ focus on its core                                                                                 2017 to      2020 and
                                                                                         (in millions of €)                       2015        2016       2019      thereafter
      business activities or compensation from m & a trans­actions;
                                                                                         non-derivative financial
      indirect investments in fund shares are mainly transacted for
                                                                                         ­liabilities
      financial reasons.                                                                  notes and bonds                         649       2,911       9,361         8,383
                                                                                          loans from banks                        834         133         843              9
      these investments are monitored based on their current                              other financial
      ­market value, affected primarily by fluctuations in the volatile                    indebtedness                           828            9         45            33
       ­technology-related markets worldwide. the market value of                         obligations under
        siemens’ portfolio in publicly traded companies decreased from                     finance leases                          27          49          34            97

        € 1,444 million as of september 30, 2013 to € 1,351 million as of                 trade payables                        7,697         16          18              1
                                                                                          other financial liabilities            1,014         65         432              8
        september 30, 2014.
                                                                                         derivative financial liabilities         933         278         487            56
                                                                                         credit guarantees                        774            –             –           –
      based on historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day hold-
                                                                                          irrevocable loan
      ing p
          ­ eriod and a confidence level of 99.5 %, the var as of sep-                   ­commitments                            3,214        215         174              1
      tember 30, 2014 of siemens’ equity investments was € 122 mil-
      lion compared to € 81 million the year before.

      liquidity risk
      liquidity risk results from the company’s potential inability to              the risk implied from the values shown in the table above
      meet its financial liabilities, e.g. for the settlement of its finan-         ­reflects the one-sided scenario of cash outflows only. obliga-
      cial debt or for ongoing cash requirements from operating and                  tions under finance leases, trade payables and other financial
      sfs financing activities, dividend payments, pension plan fund-                                                                   ­ ssets used in
                                                                                     liabilities mainly originate from the financing of a
      ing and portfolio activities. in addition to having implemented                siemens’ ongoing operations such as property, plant, equip-
      effective working capital and cash management, siemens miti-                   ment and investments in working capital – e.g. inventories
      gates liquidity risk by arranged credit facilities with highly                 and trade receivables. these ­assets are considered in the
                                                                                     ­
      rated financial institutions, via a debt issuance program and via              ­company ’s overall liquidity risk management. a considerable
      a global multi-currency commercial paper program. liquidity                     portion of the irrevocable loan commitments result from asset-­
      risk may also be mitigated by the siemens bank gmbh, which                      based lending transactions meaning that the respective loans
      increases the flexibility of depositing cash or refinancing by                  can only be drawn after sufficient collateral has been provided
      ­using european central bank accounts.                                          by the borrower. the amounts included for credit guarantees




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate ­governance                              171     c.   combined ­management report
304

are the maximum amounts siemens could be required to settle                                    s­ ystems for its financing activities. there are also a number of
in the event of default or non-payment by the primary debtor.                                   decentralized tools used for management of individual credit
for additional information regarding credit guarantees see                                      risks within the operating units. a central it application pro-
   note 27 commitments and contingencies . to monitor existing                                  cesses data from the operating units together with rating and
          ­ ssets and liabilities as well as to enable an effective
financial a                                                                                     default information and calculates an estimate which may be
controlling of future risks, siemens has established a compre-                                  used as a basis for individual bad debt provisions. in addition to
hensive risk reporting covering its worldwide business units.                                   this automated process, qualitative information is considered,
                                                                                                in particular to incorporate the latest developments.
credit risk
credit risk is defined as an unexpected loss in cash and earn-                                  to increase transparency with regard to credit risk corporate
ings if the customer is unable to pay its obligations in full and                               treasury has established the siemens credit warehouse to
on time or if the value of collateral declines.                                                 which numerous operating units from the siemens group reg-
                                                                                                ularly transfer business partner data as a basis for a centralized
siemens provides its customers with various forms of direct                                     rating process. in addition, numerous operating units transfer
and indirect financing particularly in connection with large                                    their trade receivables with a remaining term up to one year
projects. siemens finances a large number of smaller customer                                   along with the inherent credit risk to the siemens credit
orders, for example the leasing of medical equipment, in part                                   warehouse, but remain responsible for servicing activities
                                                                                                ­
through sfs. sfs is also exposed to credit risk by financing                                    such as collections and receivables management. the siemens
third-party equipment or by taking direct or indirect participa-                                credit warehouse actively identifies, quantifies and manages
tions in financings, such as syndicated loans. in part, siemens                                 the credit risk in its portfolio, such as by hedging exposure
takes a security interest in the ­assets siemens finances or                                    to specific customers, countries and industries. in addition to
siemens receives additional collateral. siemens may incur                                       an ­increased transparency with regard to credit risk, the
losses if the credit quality of its customers deteriorates or if                                siemens credit warehouse may provide siemens with an addi-
they default on their payment obligations to siemens, such as                                   tional source of liquidity and strengthens siemens’ funding
a consequence of a financial or political crisis and a global                                  ­flexibility.
downturn.
                                                                                               the maximum exposure to credit risk of financial ­assets, with-
the effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a core                              out taking account of any collateral, is represented by their car-
competency of our risk management system. siemens has im-                                      rying amount. as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 the collateral
plemented a binding credit policy for all entities. hence, credit                                                                                ­ ssets measured
                                                                                               for financial instruments classified as financial a
evaluations and ratings are performed for all customers with an                                at fair value in the form of netting agreements for derivatives
exposure or requiring credit beyond centrally defined limits.                                  in the event of insolvency of the respective counterparty
                                                                                               amounted to € 955 million and € 587 million, respectively. as of
customer ratings, analyzed and defined by sfs, and individual                                  september 30, 2014 and 2013 the collateral held for financial
customer limits are based on generally accepted rating meth-                                   instruments classified as receivables from finance leases
odologies, with the input consisting of information obtained                                   amounted to € 2,072 million and € 1,902 million, respectively,
from the customer, external rating agencies, data service pro-                                 mainly in the form of the leased equipment. as of septem-
viders and siemens’ customer default experiences. ratings and                                  ber 30, 2014 and 2013 the collateral held for financial instru-
credit limits are carefully considered in determining the condi-                               ments classified as financial a  ­ ssets measured at cost or amor-
tions under which direct or indirect financing will be offered to                              tized cost amounted to € 2,425 million and € 2,141 million,
customers. as part of the process, internal risk assessment spe-                               respectively. the collateral mainly consisted of property, plant
cialists determine and continuously update ratings and credit                                  and equipment. in addition, for this class siemens holds collat-
limits for siemens’ public and private customers. for public                                   eral in the form of securities related to reverse repurchase
customers our policy provides that the rating applied to individ-                              agreements that can be sold or re-pledged in absence of default
ual customers cannot be better than the weakest of the sover-                                  by the owner of the collateral. as of september 30, 2014 and
eign ratings provided by moody ’s, s & p’s and fitch for the                                   2013 the fair value of the collateral held amounted to € 408 mil-
­respective country.                                                                           lion and € 103 million, respectively. in fiscal 2014 and 2013
                                                                                               siemens has not exercised the right to sell or re-pledge the col-
credit risk is recorded, analyzed and monitored on an ongoing                                  lateral. credit risks arising from irrevocable loan commitments
basis applying different systems and processes dependent on                                    are equal to the expected future pay-offs resulting from these
the financial instrument. central systems are used for ongoing                                 commitments. as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 the collateral
monitoring of counterparty risk. in addition, sfs uses own                                     held for these commitments amounted to € 1,646 million and




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                     305
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      € 1,320 million, respectively, mainly in the form of inventories               awards may occur in newly issued shares of capital stock of
      and receivables. credit risks arising from credit guarantees are               siemens ag, treasury shares or in cash. the settlement method
      described in      note 27 commitments and contingencies . there                will be determined by the managing board and the supervisory
      were no significant concentrations of credit risk as of septem-                board. each fiscal year, the company decides whether or not
      ber 30, 2014 and 2013.                                                         to grant stock awards. the supervisory board decides about
                                                                                     the number of stock awards to the managing board and the
      concerning trade receivables and other receivables, as well as                 ­managing board decides about the number of stock awards
      loans or receivables included in line item other financial a
                                                                 ­ ssets              to members of the senior management and other eligible
      that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no indica-                 ­employees.
      tions as of september 30, 2014, that defaults in payment obliga-
      tions will occur, which lead to a decrease in the net ­assets of              since fiscal 2012, the allocation of stock awards as a share-
      siemens. overdue financial instruments are generally impaired                 based payment has been increasingly tied to corporate perfor-
      on a portfolio basis in order to reflect losses incurred within               mance criteria. the target attainment for the performance
      the respective portfolios. when substantial expected payment                  ­criteria ranges between 0 % and 200 %.
      delays become evident, overdue financial instruments are
      ­assessed individually for additional impairment and are further              half of the annual target amount for stock awards is based on
       allowed for as appropriate.                                                  the average of earnings per share (eps, basic) of the past three
                                                                                    fiscal years. the target attainment determines the number of
                                                                                    stock awards upon allocation. settlement of these stock awards
      note 32     share-based payment                                               is in shares following the four-year restriction ­period.

      share-based payment awards at siemens, including bonus                        the other half of the annual target amount for stock awards
      awards, stock awards, the share matching program and its                      is based on the share price performance of siemens shares
      under­lying plans as well as the jubilee share program are pre-               ­relative to the share price performance of five important
      dominately designed as equity-settled plans and to a limited                   siemens competitors (abb, general electric, philips, rockwell,
      extent as cash-settled plans. if participating siemens compa-                  schneider) ­during the four-year restriction p ­ eriod. the target
      nies cease to be part of the siemens group, they are no longer                 attainment is determined during the four-year restriction
      eligible to participate in future share-based payment awards at                ­period for the stock awards and accordingly, determines the
      siemens. in such cases the participating siemens companies                      number of siemens shares ultimately transferred following
      have the right to settle the share-based payment awards pre­                    the restriction ­period. if the target attainment is up to 100 %,
      maturely. ­total pretax expense for share-based payment recog-                  settlement is in shares. if the target attainment exceeds 100 %
      nized in line item income from continuing operations                            (up to 200 %) an additional cash payment corresponding to the
      amounted to € 184 million and € 181 million for the years ended                 outperformance results.
      september 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and refers primar-
      ily to equity-­settled awards, including the company ’s base                  additionally one portion of the variable compensation com­
      share ­program.                                                               ponent (bonus) for members of the managing board is granted
                                                                                    in the form of non-forfeitable awards of siemens stock (bonus
      stock awards                                                                  awards).
      the company grants stock awards as a means for providing
      share-based compensation to members of the managing                           commitments to members of the managing board
      board, members of the senior management of siemens ag                         the remuneration system for the managing board was revised
      and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries and other eligible                  by the supervisory board, effective as of fiscal 2014, which
      ­employees. stock awards are subject to a restriction ­period of              is explained in detail in the compensation report within the
       about four years and entitle the beneficiary to siemens shares               corporate governance report.
       without payment of consideration following the restriction
       ­period. stock awards granted in fiscal 2008 to 2011 were gener-             in fiscal 2014 and 2013, agreements were entered into which
                                      ­ eriod of three years. in principle,
        ally subject to a restriction p                                             entitle members of the managing board to stock awards contin-
        stock awards forfeit if the beneficiary ’s employment with the              gent upon attaining an eps-based target. the fair value of these
        company terminates prior to the expiration of the restriction               entitlements amounting to € 5 million and € 6 million, respec-
        ­period. during the restriction p   ­ eriod, beneficiaries are not          tively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013, was determined by calculating
         ­entitled to dividends. stock awards may not be transferred,               the present value of the target amount.
          sold, pledged or otherwise encumbered. settlement of stock




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.   combined ­management report
306

in fiscal 2014 and 2013, agreements were entered into which                                    24 %, respectively, and a market price of € 95.62 and € 79.70 per
entitle members of the managing board to stock awards contin-                                  siemens share. expected volatility was determined by reference
gent upon attaining a prospective performance-based target of                                  to historic volatilities. the model applies a risk-free interest rate
siemens stock relative to five competitors (for fiscal 2014 philips                            of up to 0.9 % in fiscal 2014 and up to 0.6 % in fiscal 2013 and an
was replaced by alstom). the fair value of these entitlements                                  expected dividend yield of 3.1 % in fiscal 2014 and 3.8 % in fiscal
amounting to € 5 million and € 7 million, respectively, in fiscal                              2013. assumptions concerning share price correlations were
2014 and 2013, was calculated by applying a valuation model.                                   determined by reference to historic correlations. compensation
inputs to that model include an expected weighted volatility of                                expense related to these stock awards is recognized over four
siemens shares of 22 % in fiscal 2014 and 24 % in fiscal 2013 and                              years until they vest.
a market price of € 98.36 in fiscal 2014 and € 78.94 in fiscal 2013
per siemens share. expected volatility was determined by refer-                                the following table shows the changes in the stock awards
ence to historic volatilities. the model applies a risk-free inter-                            held by members of the senior management and other eligible
est rate of up to 1.0 % in fiscal 2014 and up to 0.8 % in fiscal 2013                          employees:
and an expected dividend yield of 3.1 % in fiscal 2014 and 3.8 %
in fiscal 2013. assumptions concerning share price correlations
were determined by reference to historic correlations.                                                                                                   year ended september 30,
                                                                                                                                                         2014               2013

compensation expense related to stock awards is generally rec-                                                                                        awards              awards

ognized over five years until they vest, including a restriction                                 non-vested, beginning of period                 4,876,455           4,217,588
­period of four years.                                                                           granted                                         1,421,211           2,158,079
                                                                                                 vested and transferred                         (1,041,376)         (1,073,355)

in fiscal 2014 and 2013, agreements were entered into which                                      forfeited                                        (120,350)            (101,192)

entitle members of the managing board to bonus awards con-                                       settled                                          (149,942)            (324,665)
                                                                                                 non-vested, end of period                       4,985,998           4,876,455
tingent upon the target attainment. the fair value of these en-
titlements amounting to € 2 million and € 5 million, respec-
tively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013, was determined by calculating
the present value of the target amount. compensation expense
related to bonus awards is generally recognized over the vest-                                 share matching program
ing ­period of one year. beneficiaries will receive one siemens                                and its underlying plans
share without payment of consideration for each bonus award,                                   1. share matching plan
following an additional waiting ­period of four years.                                         in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the company issued a new tranche un-
                                                                                               der the share matching plan. senior managers of siemens ag
commitments to members of the senior                                                           and participating siemens companies may invest a specified
­management and other eligible employees                                                       percentage of their compensation in siemens shares. within a
in fiscal 2014 and 2013, 769,049 and 1,308,171 stock awards, re-                               predetermined p    ­ eriod in the first quarter of each fiscal year,
spectively, were granted to members of the senior manage-                                      plan participants decide on their investment amount for which
ment and other eligible employees contingent upon attaining                                    investment shares are purchased. the shares are purchased at
an eps-based target. the fair value of these stock awards                                      the market price at a predetermined date in the second quarter.
amounts to € 62 million and € 85 million, respectively, in fiscal                              plan participants receive the right to one siemens share with-
2014 and 2013 and corresponds to the target amount represent-                                  out payment of consideration (matching share) for every three
ing the eps target attainment.                                                                 investment shares continuously held over a p        ­ eriod of three
                                                                                               years (vesting p  ­ eriod) provided the plan participant has been
in fiscal 2014 and 2013, 652,162 and 849,908 stock awards, re-                                 continuously employed by siemens ag or another siemens
spectively, were granted to members of the senior manage-                                      company until the end of the vesting p   ­ eriod. during the vesting
ment and other eligible employees contingent upon attaining a                                  ­period, matching shares are not entitled to dividends. the right
prospective performance-based target of the siemens stock                                       to receive matching shares forfeits if the underlying investment
relative to five competitors. the fair value of these stock awards                              shares are transferred, sold, pledged or otherwise encumbered.
amounting to € 56 million and € 53 million, respectively, in fis-                               matching shares may be settled in newly issued shares of capi-
cal 2014 and 2013, of which € 40 million and € 41 million relate                                tal stock of siemens ag, treasury shares or in cash. the settle-
to equity instruments, was calculated by applying a valuation                                   ment method will be determined by the managing board. each
model. in fiscal 2014 and 2013, inputs to that model include an                                 fiscal year, the managing board decides whether or not to issue
expected weighted volatility of siemens shares of 23 % and                                      a new tranche under the share matching plan.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                    307
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      2. monthly investment plan                                                  4. resulting matching shares
      in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the company issued a new tranche
      ­under the monthly investment plan that is a further compo-
      nent of the share matching plan and which is available for                                                                            year ended september 30,
       ­employees – other than senior managers – of siemens ag and                                                                          2014                 2013

        participating siemens companies. plan participants may invest                                                               entitlements         entitlements
                                                                                                                                     to matching          to matching
        a specified percentage of their compensation in siemens shares                                                                     shares               shares
        on a monthly basis over a p ­ eriod of twelve months. the shares               outstanding, beginning of period              1,733,497           1,545,582
        are purchased at market price at a predetermined date once a                   granted                                         609,758             713,245
        month. the managing board of the company will decide annu-                     vested and transferred                         (437,989)           (351,548)
        ally, whether shares acquired under the monthly investment                     forfeited                                       (92,035)           (140,307)
        plan (investment shares) may be transferred to the share                       settled                                         (63,055)             (33,475)
        matching plan the following year. if the managing board                        outstanding, end of period                    1,750,176           1,733,497
        ­decides that shares acquired under the monthly investment
         plan are transferred to the share matching plan, plan partici-
         pants will receive the right to matching shares under the same
         conditions applying to the share matching plan described                 fair value was determined as the market price of siemens
         above. each fiscal year the managing board decides, whether              shares less the present value of expected dividends during the
         or not to issue a new tranche under the monthly invest-                  vesting ­period as matching shares do not carry dividend rights
         ment plan.                                                               during the vesting p­ eriod. non-vesting conditions, i.e. the con-
                                                                                  dition neither to transfer, sell, pledge nor otherwise encumber
      the managing board decided that shares acquired under the                   the underlying shares, were considered in determining the fair
      tranches issued in fiscal 2013 and 2012 are transferred to the              value. in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the weighted average grant-
      share matching plan as of february 2014 and february 2013,                  date fair value of the resulting matching shares is € 73.00 and
      respectively.                                                               € 57.77 per share respectively, based on the number of instru-
                                                                                  ments granted.
      3. base share program
      in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the company issued a new tranche                   jubilee share program
      ­under the base share program. employees of siemens ag and                  under the jubilee share program, eligible employees of
       participating domestic siemens companies can invest a fixed                siemens ag and participating domestic siemens companies
       amount of their compensation into siemens shares, sponsored                receive jubilee shares after having been continuously em-
       by siemens with a tax beneficial allowance. the shares are                 ployed by the company for 25 and 40 years (vesting ­period),
       bought at market price at a predetermined date in the second               respectively. generally, settlement of jubilee grants is in shares.
       quarter and grant the right to receive matching shares under               jubilee shares are measured at fair value considering bio­
       the same conditions applying to the share matching plan                    metrical factors. the fair value is determined as the market
       ­described above. each fiscal year, the managing board decides             price of siemens shares at grant date less the present value of
        whether or not to issue a new tranche under the base share                dividends expected to be paid during the vesting ­period for
        program. the fair value of the base share program equals the              which the employees are not entitled to. the weighted average
        amount of the tax beneficial allowance sponsored by siemens.              fair value of each jubilee share granted in fiscal 2014 for the 25th
        in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the company incurred pretax expense              and the 40th anniversary is € 49.36 and € 32.86, respectively,
        from continuing operations of € 32 million and € 30 million,              based on the number of shares granted. the weighted average
        ­respectively.                                                            fair value of each jubilee share granted adjusted by biometrical
                                                                                  factors (considering fluctuation) is € 31.58 and € 18.97, respec-
                                                                                  tively, in fiscal 2014. the weighted average fair value of each
                                                                                  jubilee share granted in fiscal 2013 for the 25th and the 40th
                                                                                  ­anniversary is € 36.92 and € 24.55 respectively, based on the
                                                                                   number of shares granted. the weighted average fair value
                                                                                   of each jubilee share granted adjusted by biometrical factors
                                                                                   (­considering fluctuation) is € 18.24 and € 9.99 respectively, in
                                                                                  fiscal 2013.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                            171   c.   combined ­management report
308

in fiscal 2014 and 2013, 0.22 million and 0.29 million jubilee                                   the average number of employees in fiscal years 2014 and 2013
shares were granted; 0.20 million and 0.18 million were trans-                                   is 359.2 thousand and 394.9 thousand, respectively (based on
ferred, 0.14 million and 0.12 million forfeited, resulting in an                                 continuing and discontinued operations). thereof, in fiscal
outstanding balance of 4.56 million and 4.68 million jubilee                                     2014 and 2013, 223.7 and 248.3 thousand employees were
shares as of september 30, 2014 and 2013. considering bio­                                       ­engaged in manufacturing and services, 71.2 thousand and
metrical factors as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, 3.60 million                                  78.2 thousand were engaged in sales and marketing, 30.4 thou-
and 3.28 million jubilee shares were expected to vest.                                            sand and 31.8 thousand employees were in research and devel-
                                                                                                  opment and 34.0 thousand and 36.6 thousand employees were
                                                                                                  in administration and general services, respectively.
note 33       personnel costs
                                                                                                 note 34       earnings per share
                                                               year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014           2013
 wages and salaries                                              20,142           20,988                                                                       year ended september 30,
  statutory social welfare contributions and                                                       (shares in thousands; earnings per share in €)                     2014        2013
 ­expenses for optional support payments                          3,220            3,228           income from continuing operations                                 5,400      4,179
 expenses relating to post-employment benefits                    1,044            1,114           less: portion attributable to non-controlling
                                                                 24,406           25,330           ­interest                                                         (133)       (120)
                                                                                                   income from continuing operations
                                                                                                   ­attributable to shareholders of siemens ag                       5,267      4,059
                                                                                                   weighted average shares outstanding – basic                  843,449      843,819
item expenses relating to post-employment benefits includes                                        effect of dilutive share-based payment                            8,485      8,433
service costs for the ­period. interest from post-employment                                       weighted average shares outstanding – diluted                851,934      852,252
benefits is included in line items interest income (expenses).                                     basic earnings per share
                                                                                                   (from continuing operations)                                       6.24        4.81
wages and salaries, statutory social welfare contributions                                         diluted earnings per share
                                                                                                   (from continuing operations)                                       6.18        4.76
and expenses for optional support payments as well as ex-
penses relating to post-employment benefits for continuing
and ­discontinued operations amounts to € 25,533 million and
€ 28,163 million in fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively.
                                                                                                 the dilutive earnings per share computation in fiscal 2014 and
the average number of employees in fiscal years 2014 and 2013                                    2013 does not contain 21,674 thousand shares relating to war-
was 344.4 thousand and 348.7 thousand, respectively (based                                       rants issued with bonds. the inclusion of those shares would
on continuing operations). part-time employees are included                                      have been antidilutive in the years presented. in the future, the
on a proportionate basis. the employees were engaged in the                                      warrants could potentially dilute basic earnings per share.
following activities:



                                                               year ended september 30,
 (in thousands)                                                       2014           2013
 manufacturing and services                                       213.6            215.0
 sales and marketing                                                  68.6           71.1
 research and development                                             28.8           28.1
 administration and general services                                  33.5           34.4
                                                                  344.4            348.7




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                 337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                          309
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   252   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      330   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      note 35        segment information
      segment information is presented for continuing operations.

               as of and for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2014 and 2013

                                                                                           orders 1                external revenue     intersegment revenue                     total revenue



       (in millions of €)                                                      2014           2013              2014          2013          2014          2013           2014            2013
       sectors
            energy                                                       28,646           28,797          24,380          26,425            251           212        24,631          26,638
            healthcare                                                   12,819           13,004          12,401          12,626             29             22       12,429          12,649
            industry                                                     17,103           16,688          15,346          15,256       1,718            1,640        17,064          16,896
            infrastructure & cities                                      21,001           21,894          18,291          17,149            643           730        18,934          17,879
       total sectors                                                     79,569           80,382          70,418          71,456       2,641            2,605        73,059          74,061
       equity investments                                                          –             –                –              –            –              –              –               –
       financial services (sfs)                                                937          1,072               746           961           191           111            937           1,072
       reconciliation to consolidated financial
       statements
            centrally managed portfolio activities                             302            296               297           386             9             10           306             396
            siemens real estate (sre)                                        2,405          2,490               270           332      2,136            2,159          2,405           2,491
            corporate items and pensions                                       305            471               190           309           120           163            310             472
        eliminations, corporate treasury
         and other reconciling items                                         (5,169)       (4,956)                –              –    (5,098)          (5,048)        (5,098)         (5,048)
       siemens                                                           78,350           79,755          71,920          73,445              –              –       71,920          73,445


               1 this supplementary information on orders is provided
                  on a voluntary basis. it is not part of the consolidated
                  financial statements subject to the audit opinion.




      108    a.    to our shareholders                                       131   b.   corporate ­governance                         171    c.    combined ­management report
310

                               profit                               assets                         free cash flow                 additions to intangible         amortization, depreciation
                                                                                                                              ­assets and property, plant                  and impairments
                                                                                                                                         and equipment
             2014              2013        09/30/2014           09/30/2013                2014               2013               2014                2013                 2014          2013


            1,569            1,955              1,680              1,621                1,591             1,595                  449                425                  507           610
            2,027            2,033            11,126              10,732                2,067             2,227                  303                241                  553           577
            2,252            1,563              6,661              6,410                2,170             2,280                  358                384                  544           638
            1,487              291              5,180              4,973                1,280                372                 247                239                  296           379
            7,335            5,842            24,646              23,736                7,108             6,473               1,356              1,289              1,900            2,204
             328               411              2,571              2,488                    81               126                    –                  –                   –              –
             465               409            21,970              18,661                  522                857                  31                 69                  194           230



              44              (113)               (154)                (234)               (37)             (142)                   6                  7                   4              4
             241               168              4,697              4,747                 (170)              (112)                370                364                  264           309
            (938)             (836)            (1,859)            (1,987)                (675)              (422)                 70                 83                   78             91

              (48)              (70)          53,009              54,525               (1,430)           (1,403)                   (3)                (4)                (29)           (34)
            7,427            5,813           104,879            101,936                 5,399             5,378               1,831              1,808              2,411            2,804




247   d.     consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                               311
248   d.1    consolidated statements of income                   252    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2    consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3     consolidated statements of financial position      330    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4     consolidated statements of cash flows

      description of reportable segments                                          reconciliation
      the four sectors comprise manufacturing, industrial and com-                to consolidated financial statements
      mercial goods, solutions and services in areas more or less                 reconciliation to consolidated financial statements contains
      ­related to siemens’ origins in the electrical business field.              businesses and items not directly related to siemens’ report-
                                                                                  able segments:
      energy – offers a wide spectrum of products, solutions and
      services for generating and transmitting power, and for extract-            centrally managed portfolio activities – generally includes
      ing, converting and transporting oil and gas.                               activities intended for divestment or closure as well as activities
                                                                                  remaining from divestments and discontinued operations.
      healthcare – offers customers a comprehensive portfolio of
      medical solutions across the treatment chain – from preven-                 siemens real estate (sre) – is the real estate service pro-
      tion and early detection to diagnosis, treatment and follow-up              vider at siemens, who manages the group’s entire real estate
      care. healthcare also provides technical maintenance, profes-               business portfolio, operates the properties, and is responsible
      sional and consulting services, and, together with financial                for building projects and the purchase and sale of real estate.
      services (sfs), financing to assist customers in purchasing our
      products.                                                                   corporate items and pensions – includes corporate charges
                                                                                  such as personnel costs for corporate headquarters, corporate
      industry – a supplier of innovative and environmentally                     projects and non-operating investments or results of corpo-
        friendly products and solutions for industrial companies, par-            rate-related derivative activities and costs for carve out activi-
        ticularly those in the process and manufacturing industries.              ties managed by corporate, which are charged to the respective
        industry ’s end-to-end automation solutions, drive technolo-              segment when the disposal gain or loss is realized or when the
        gies, industrial it and industry software, in-depth industry              activities are classified as discontinued operations. pensions
      ­expertise and technology-based services help industry ’s cus-              includes the company’s pension related income (expense) not
       tomers use resources and energy more efficiently, improve                  allocated to the segments, sre or centrally managed portfolio
       ­productivity, and increase flexibility.                                   activities.

      infrastructure & cities – offers a wide range of technologies               eliminations, corporate treasury and other reconciling
      that increase the functionality and sustainability of metropoli-            items – comprise consolidation of transactions within the seg-
      tan centers and urban infrastructures worldwide, such as inte-              ments, certain reconciliation and reclassification items and the
      grated mobility solutions, building and security systems, power             activities of the company’s corporate treasury. it also includes
      distribution equipment, grid automation and control products                interest income and expense, such as, for example, interest not
      and solutions, smart grid applications and low and medium-­                 allocated to segments or centrally managed portfolio activities
      voltage products.                                                           (referred to as financing interest), interest related to corporate
                                                                                  treasury activities or resulting consolidation and reconciliation
      equity investments – in general, comprises equity stakes                    effects on interest.
      held by siemens that are accounted for by the equity method or
      as available-for-sale financial a
                                      ­ ssets and that for strategic rea-         measurement – segments
      sons are not allocated to a sector or a division, respectively,             accounting policies for segment information are generally
      sfs, centrally managed portfolio activities, siemens real estate            the same as those used for siemens, described in           note 2

      (sre), corporate items or corporate treasury.                               summary of significant accounting policies . lease transactions,

                                                                                  however, are classified as operating leases for internal and seg-
      financial services (sfs) – provides business-to-business                    ment reporting purposes. intersegment transactions are based
      finan­cial solutions. with its specialist financing and technology          on market prices.
      expertise in the areas of siemens businesses, sfs supports cus-
      tomer investments with leasing solutions and equipment, proj-               profit of the sectors and of equity investments:
      ect and structured financing. sfs provides capital for siemens              siemens’ managing board is responsible for assessing the per-
      customers as well as other companies and manages financial                  formance of the segments. the company ’s profitability mea-
      risks of siemens.                                                           sure of the sectors and equity investments is earnings before
                                                                                  financing interest, certain pension costs, and income taxes as
                                                                                  determined by the chief operating decision maker (profit).
                                                                                  profit excludes various categories of items, not allocated to the




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.   combined ­management report
312

sectors and equity investments, which management does not                                      (loss) from the sale of interests in investments, impairment of
regard as indicative of their performance. profit represents a                                 investments and reversals of impairments. it also includes
performance measure focused on operational success exclud-                                     ­interest and impairments as well as reversals of impairments
ing the effects of capital market financing issues; for financing                               on long-term loans granted to investments reported in equity
issues regarding equity investments see paragraph below.                                        investments.
the major categories of items excluded from profit are pre-
sented below.                                                                                  profit of the segment sfs:
                                                                                               profit of the segment sfs is income before income taxes. in
financing interest, excluded from profit, is any interest income                               contrast to performance measurement principles applied to the
or expense other than interest income related to receivables                                   sectors and equity investments interest income and expenses
from customers, from cash allocated to the sectors and equity                                  is an important source of revenue and expense of sfs.
investments and interest expenses on payables to suppliers.
borrowing costs capitalized as part of qualifying long-term                                    asset measurement principles:
projects are not part of financing interest. financing interest is                             management determined assets as a measure to assess capital
excluded from profit because decision-making regarding finan­                                  intensity of the sectors and equity investments (net capital
cing is typically made at the corporate level. equity invest-                                  employed). its definition corresponds to the profit measure. it
ments include interest and impairments as well as reversals                                    is based on total ­assets of the consolidated statements of
of impairments on long-term loans granted to investments                                       finan­cial position, primarily excluding intragroup financing
­reported in equity investments.                                                               receivables, tax related ­
                                                                                               ­                             assets and ­   assets of discontinued
                                                                                               ­operations, since the corresponding ­positions are excluded
similarly, decision-making regarding essential pension items is                                 from profit. a division of infrastructure & cities includes the
done centrally. accordingly, profit primarily includes amounts                                  project-specific intercompany financing of a long-term project.
related to service cost of pension plans only, while all other reg-                             the remaining ­     assets are reduced by non-interest-bearing
ularly recurring pension related costs – including charges for                                  ­liabilities other than tax related liabilities, e.g. trade payables,
the german pension insurance association and plan adminis-                                       to derive assets. in contrast, assets of sfs is total ­assets.
tration costs – are included in line item corporate items and
pensions. curtailments are a partial payback with regard to past                               orders:
service cost that affect segment profit.                                                       orders are determined principally as estimated revenue of
                                                                                               ­accepted purchase orders and order value changes and adjust-
furthermore, income taxes are excluded from profit since                                        ments, excluding letters of intent. new orders are supplemen-
­income tax is subject to legal structures, which typically do not                              tary information, provided on a voluntary basis. it is not part of
 correspond to the structure of the segments.                                                   the audited consolidated financial statements.

the effect of certain litigation and compliance issues is                                      free cash flow definition:
­excluded from profit, if such items are not indicative of the                                 segment information discloses free cash flow and additions
 sectors’ and equity investments’ performance, since their
 ­                                                                                             to property, plant and equipment and intangible ­assets. free
 ­related results of operations may be distorted by the amount                                 cash flow of the sectors and equity investments constitutes
  and the irregular nature of such events. this may also be the                                cash flows from operating activities less additions to intangi-
  case for items that refer to more than one reportable segment,                               ble ­assets and property, plant and equipment. it excludes
  sre and (or) centrally managed portfolio activities or have a                                ­financing interest, except for cases where interest on qualify-
  corporate or central character.                                                               ing ­assets is capitalized or classified as contract costs and it
                                                                                                also excludes non-cash income tax as well as certain other
central infrastructure costs are primarily allocated to the                                     payments and proceeds. free cash flow of equity investments
­sectors. the total amount to be allocated is determined at the                                 includes interest from shareholder loans granted to invest-
 beginning of the fiscal year and is charged in installments in all                             ments reported in equity investments. pension curtailments
 four quarters.                                                                                 are a partial payback with regard to past service cost that
                                                                                                ­affect segment free cash flow. free cash flow of sfs, a finan-
profit of equity investments mainly comprises income (loss)                                      cial services business, includes related financing interest pay-
from investments presented in equity investments, such as the                                    ments and proceeds; income tax payments and proceeds of
share in the earnings of associates or dividends from invest-                                    sfs are excluded.
ments not accounted for under the equity method, income




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                        313
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      amortization, depreciation and impairments:                                                             in fiscal 2014 and 2013, corporate items and pensions in column
      amortization, depreciation and impairments presented in seg-                                            profit includes €(545) million and €(419) million related to cor-
      ment information includes depreciation and impairments of                                               porate items, as well as €(393) million and €(416) million related
      property, plant and equipment, net of reversals of impairments                                          to pensions, respectively. corporate items include effects from
      as well as amortization and impairments of intangible a ­ ssets,                                        legal and regulatory matters. in fiscal 2014, column profit in-
      net of reversals of impairment.                                                                         cludes a one-time effect of € 186 million regarding insurance
                                                                                                              matters, which were mainly included in eliminations.
      measurement – ­c entrally ­m anaged
      ­p ortfolio ­activities and sre:                                                                        additional segment information
      centrally managed portfolio activities follow the measure-                                              in fiscal 2014 and 2013, profit of sfs includes interest income
      ment principles of the sectors. sre applies the measurement                                             of € 966 million and € 873 million, respectively and interest
      ­principles of sfs; total ­assets of sre nets certain intercom-                                         ­expenses of € 336 million and € 317 million, respectively.
       pany ­finance receivables with certain intercompany finance
       ­liabilities.
                                                                                                              note 36           information about geographies
      reconciliation to siemens’
      consolidated financial statements
      the following table reconciles total assets of the sectors,                                                                                        revenue by location     revenue by location
                                                                                                                                                                of customer           of companies
      ­equity investments and sfs to total a ­ ssets of siemens’ con­
                                                                                                                                                                 year ended                year ended
       solidated statements of financial position:                                                                                                            september 30,             september 30,
                                                                                                                   (in millions of €)                      2014        2013        2014         2013
                                                                                                                   europe, c.i.s.,1 africa,
                                                                                                                   ­middle east                          38,732     39,390      42,383       43,426
                                                                                          september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                          2014              2013          americas                              18,756     19,644      18,425       19,555

       assets of sectors                                                      24,646           23,736              asia, australia                       14,433     14,411      11,112       10,463

       assets of equity investments                                             2,571              2,488           siemens                               71,920     73,445      71,920       73,445

       assets of sfs                                                          21,970           18,661               thereof germany                      10,857     10,652      18,602       18,944

       total segment assets                                                   49,187           44,884               thereof foreign countries            61,063     62,792      53,318       54,501

       reconciliation:                                                                                               thereof u.s.                        12,876     13,110      13,793       14,887

       assets centrally managed portfolio activities                               (154)            (234)
       assets sre                                                               4,697              4,747                 1 commonwealth of independent states.

       assets of corporate items and pensions 1                                (1,859)             (1,987)
       eliminations, corporate treasury and other
       reconciling items of segment information:
                                                                                                                                                                                  non-current assets
        asset-based adjustments:
                                                                                                                                                                                        september 30,
         intragroup financing receivables
                                                                                                                   (in millions of €)                                            2014           2013
          and ­investments                                                    42,037           40,850
         tax-related assets                                                     3,782              3,924           europe, c.i.s.,1 africa, middle east                        17,053        17,404

        liability-based adjustments:                                                                               americas                                                    12,175        12,598

         liabilities                                                          39,232           39,244              asia, australia                                              2,753         2,752

        eliminations, corporate treasury, other items                1
                                                                             (32,043)          (29,492)            siemens                                                     31,981        32,755

        total eliminations, corporate treasury and                                                                  thereof germany                                             6,497         6,510
       ­other reconciling items of segment information                        53,009           54,525               thereof foreign countries                                  25,484        26,245
       total assets in siemens’ consolidated                                                                         thereof u.s.                                              10,861        11,205
       ­ tatements of financial position
       s                                                                     104,879          101,936

                                                                                                                         1 commonwealth of independent states.
                 1 includes assets and liabilities reclassified in connection with discontinued
                    ­operations.
                                                                                                              non-current ­assets consist of property, plant and equipment,
                                                                                                              goodwill and other intangible ­assets.




      108   a.       to our shareholders                                     131    b.     corporate ­governance                              171   c.    combined ­management report
314

note 37      related party transactions                                                             as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, loans given to joint ven-
                                                                                                    tures and associates amounted to € 21 million and € 17 million,
joint ventures and associates                                                                       respectively. in the normal course of business the company
siemens has relationships with many joint ventures and asso-                                        regularly reviews loans and receivables associated with joint
ciates in the ordinary course of business whereby siemens                                           ventures and associates. in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the review
buys and sells a wide variety of products and services generally                                    ­resulted in net gains related to valuation allowances totaling
on arm’s length terms. for information regarding our subsidiar-                                      € 13 million and net losses related to valuation allowances
ies, joint ventures and associated in fiscal 2014 see     note 5                                     ­totaling € 27 million, respectively. as of september 30, 2014 and
interests in other entities and      note 41 list of subsidiaries                                     2013, valuation allowances amounted to € 26 million and
and associated companies pursuant to section 313 para. 2 of the                                       € 42 million, respectively.
­g erman commercial code . information regarding our subsidiar-

ies, joint ventures and associates for fiscal 2013 are presented                                    as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, guarantees to joint ­ventures
in the list of subsidiaries and associated companies published                                      and associates amounted to € 2,904 million and € 2,789 million,
separately in the german electronic federal gazette (elektro­                                       respectively, including the herkules obligations of € 1,490 mil-
nischer bundesanzeiger).                                                                            lion and € 1,890 million, respectively. for additional information
                                                                                                    regarding the herkules obligations as well as for information
sales of goods and services and other income from trans­                                            regarding guarantees in connection with the contribution of
actions with joint ventures and associates as well as purchase                                      the sen operations into unify (en) see         note 27 commitments

of goods and services and other expenses from transactions                                          and contingencies . as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, guaran-

with joint ventures and associates are as follows:                                                  tees to joint ventures amounted to € 593 million and € 431 mil-
                                                                                                    lion, respectively. as of september 30, 2014 and 2013, the
                                                                                                    ­company had commitments to make capital contributions of
                           sales of goods and services               purchases of goods and          € 107 million and € 187 million to its joint ventures and asso­
                                     and other income          ­services and other ­expenses
                                                                                                     ciates, therein € 56 million and € 107 million related to joint ven-
                                            year ended                            year ended
                                         september 30,                         september 30,         tures, respectively. for a loan raised by a joint venture, which is
 (in millions of €)               2014             2013                 2014             2013        secured by a siemens guarantee, siemens granted an addi-
 joint ventures                   230              336                   23                12        tional collateral. as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 the out-
 associates                       747            1,008                  165              214         standing amount totaled to € 129 million and € 134 million, re-
                                  977            1,345                  188              226         spectively. as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 there were loan
                                                                                                     commitments to joint ventures and associates amounting to
                                                                                                     € 81 million and € 90 million, respectively, therein € 81 million
                                                                                                     and € 90 million, respectively related to joint ventures.

receivables from joint ventures and associates and liabilities                                      pension entities
to joint ventures and associates are as follows:                                                    for information regarding the funding of our pension plans
                                                                                                    ­refer to note 22 post-employment benefits .



                                           receivables                              liabilities     related individuals
                                         september 30,                         september 30,        related individuals include the members of the managing
 (in millions of €)               2014             2013                 2014             2013       board and supervisory board.
 joint ventures                   198               54                   72                12
 associates                         82             222                  255              121        in fiscal 2014 and 2013 members of the managing board
                                  280              276                  327              133        ­received cash compensation of € 17.9 million and € 17.0 million.
                                                                                                     the fair value of stock-based compensation amounted to € 10.7
                                                                                                     million and € 17.6 million for 170,444 and 213,394 stock awards,
                                                                                                     respectively, in fiscal 2014 and 2013. in fiscal 2014 and 2013 the
                                                                                                     company granted contributions under the bsav to members of
                                                                                                     the managing board totaling € 5.1 million and € 6.4 million.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                 337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                            315
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                     252    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income      254    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position        330    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      therefore in fiscal 2014 and 2013, compensation and benefits,                long-term stock-based compensation (8,126 stock awards) for
      attributable to members of the managing board amounted to                    fiscal 2014 will be calculated once the actual target attainment is
      € 33.7 million and € 41.0 million in total, respectively.                    available, and will be granted at the usual date. the 46,399 stock
                                                                                   awards already granted in the past and those for fiscal 2014, for
      in compensation for the forfeiture of stock, pension benefits,               which the restriction period is still running, will be absolutely
      health benefits and transitional remuneration from her former                maintained (54,525 stock awards), in accordance with the terms
      employer, the supervisory board granted ms. davis a one-time                 of his contract with the company, and will be settled in cash in
      amount of € 5.5 million. this amount will be provided 20 % in                september 2015 at the closing price of siemens stock in xetra
      cash, 30 % in the form of siemens stock awards and the re-                   trading on may 6, 2014 (€93.91). the respective fair value of the
      maining 50 % as a special contribution to the pension plan.                  stock awards already granted in the past at grant date amounted
                                                                                   to €3.16 million. the stock awards for fiscal 2014 are included in
      in fiscal 2014, the following settlements have been agreed in                the above mentioned stock-based compensation amount. dr. süß
      connection with termination of managing board memberships:                   agreed not to take up activities for any of significant competitor
                                                                                   of siemens for a period of one year after the end of his employ-
      as barbara kux’s appointment to the managing board expired                   ment contract ‒ that is, until september 30, 2015. for this
      regularly on november 16, 2013, no compensatory payments                     post-contractual non-compete commitment, he will be paid a
      were agreed upon. the 51,582 stock awards already granted in                 monthly total of gross €65,000.
      the past for fiscal 2011, 2012 and 2013, for which the restriction
      period is still running, will be absolutely maintained, in accor-            in fiscal 2013, in connection with termination of managing
      dance with the terms of her contract with the company. the                   board membership, compensatory payments amounting to
      respective fair value of these stock awards at grant date                    €20.4 million (gross) and one-time special contributions amount­
      amounted to € 3.47 million.                                                  ing to € 3.1 million to the bsav were agreed. it was also agreed
                                                                                   that these members of the managing board receive their long-
      in connection with the mutually agreed termination of peter y.               term stock-based compensation for fiscal 2013 (41,554 stock
      solmssen’s activity on the managing board as of december 31,                 awards), which will be settled in cash, and is included in the
      2013, it was agreed that his contract with the company would                 above mentioned stock-based compensation amount. the
      remain in effect until march 31, 2015. the entitlements agreed               company has furthermore agreed to reimburse out-of-pocket
      under the contract will remain in effect until that date. these              expenses up to a maximum of € 130,000 plus v      ­ alue-added tax.
      will not include the fringe benefits under the contract, partic­             the 175,382 stock awards that were granted in the past and for
      ularly the company car and contributions toward the cost of                  which the restriction period is still in effect, will be absolutely
      insurance, which will be covered until the contract ends by                  maintained. the respective fair value of these stock awards at
      a monthly lump-sum payment of € 11,500. the 51,582 stock                     grant date amounted to € 11.5 million.
      awards already granted in the past for fiscal 2011, 2012 and
      2013, for which the restriction period is still in progress, will be         in fiscal 2014 and 2013, expense related to share-based pay-
      absolutely maintained. the respective fair value of these stock              ment and to the share matching program amounted to € 16.1
      awards at grant date amounted to € 3.47 million. mr. solmssen                million (including the above mentioned stock awards in con-
      was also reimbursed for relocation costs, in accordance                      nection with the departure from members of the managing
      with the commitment he received when he took office. the                     board) and € 23.2 million (including the above mentioned
      company furthermore reimbursed mr. solmssen for out-of-
      ­                                                                            stock awards in connection with the departure from members
      pocket expenses of € 100,000 plus value-added tax.                           of the managing board), respectively. for additional informa-
                                                                                   tion r­egarding the share matching program see         note 32

      in connection with the mutually agreed termination of dr. michael            share-based payment .

      ­süß’s activity on the managing board as of may 6, 2014, it was
       agreed that his current contract with the company would termi-              former members of the managing board and their surviving
       nate as of september 30, 2014. the entitlements agreed under                dependents received emoluments within the meaning of sec-
       the contract remained in effect until that date. dr. süß received a         tion 314 para. 1 no. 6 b of the german commercial code totaling
       compensatory payment in the gross amount of €4.3 million in                 € 24.2 million (including € 7.9 million in connection with the
       connection with the mutually agreed premature termination of                above mentioned departure from members of the managing
       his activity as a member of the managing board, together with a             board) and € 33.1 million (including € 18.2 million in connection
       one-time special contribution of €0.8 million to the bsav, to be            with the above mentioned departure from a member of the
       credited in january 2015. it was also agreed with dr. süß that the          ­managing board) in fiscal 2014 and 2013.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                 131   b.   corporate ­governance                    171   c.   combined ­management report
316

the defined benefit obligation (dbo) of all pension commit-                                      in fiscal 2014 and 2013, 44 % and 50 %, respectively, of the ­total
ments to former members of the managing board and their                                          fees related to ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungs-
survivors as of september 30, 2014 and 2013 amounted to                                          gesellschaft, germany.
€ 234.4 million and € 192.5 million. for additional information
see     note 22 post-employment benefits .                                                       audit services relate primarily to services provided by ey for
                                                                                                 auditing siemens’ consolidated financial statements and for
compensation attributable to members of the supervisory board                                    auditing the statutory financial statements of siemens ag and
comprises in fiscal 2014 and 2013 of a base compensation and                                     its subsidiaries. other attestation services include primarily
additional compensation for committee work and amounted                                          ­audits of financial statements in connection with m & a activi-
to € 5.1 million and € 4.9 million (including meeting fees),                                      ties, comfort letters and other attestation services required
­respectively.                                                                                    ­under regulatory requirements, agreements or requested on a
                                                                                                   voluntary basis. tax services are primarily for transitional sup-
no loans and advances from the company are provided to mem-                                        port, where ey was the historical tax service provider, with tax
bers of the managing board and supervisory board.                                                  audits and other follow-up tax compliance services. other ser-
                                                                                                   vices in fiscal 2013 consist of advisory services provided by ey
information regarding the remuneration of the members of the                                       for a transitional ­period after they acquired one of siemens’
managing board and supervisory board is disclosed on an indi-                                      it-suppliers in the area of supply chain management in
vidual basis in the compensation report, which is part of the                                      june 2013.
combined management report. the chapter          b.4 compen­

sation report is presented within the chapter   b. corporate

governance .                                                                                     note 39       corporate governance
in fiscal 2014 and 2013, no other major transactions took place                                  the managing board and the supervisory board of siemens
between the company and the other members of the manag-                                          aktiengesellschaft provided the declaration required by
                                                                                                 ­
ing board and the supervisory board.                                                             ­section 161 of the german stock corporation law (aktg) as of
                                                                                                  october 1, 2014, which is available on the company ’s website
some of our board members hold, or in the last year have held,                                    at:   www.siemens.com/gcg-code .

positions of significant responsibility with other entities.
we have relationships with almost all of these entities in the
ordinary course of our business whereby we buy and sell a wide                                   note 40       subsequent events
variety of products and services on arm’s length terms.
                                                                                                 in november 2014, siemens announced the sale of its hearing
                                                                                                 aid business to the investment company eqt and the german
      principal accountant fees
note 38                                                                                          entrepreneurial family strüngmann as co-investors. the trans-
and services                                                                                     action volume is € 2.15 billion plus an earn-out component and
                                                                                                 includes that the new owners will also be allowed to continue
fees related to professional services rendered by the com­                                       using the siemens product brand for the hearing aid business
pany’s principal accountant, ey, for fiscal 2014 and 2013 were as                                over the medium term. the hearing aid business so far rep-
­follows:                                                                                        resents a business unit within healthcare. the transaction is
                                                                                                 subject to approval by the regulatory authorities. closing is
                                                                                                 ­expected in the first quarter of calendar year 2015. the hearing
                                                               year ended september 30,           aid business is presented as held for disposal and discontinued
 (in millions of €)                                                   2014           2013         operations since the first quarter of fiscal 2015.
 type of fees
 audit services                                                       43.5           45.6
 other attestation services                                            5.9           10.2
 tax services                                                          0.2            0.1
 other services                                                         –             0.4
 total                                                                49.6           56.3




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       317
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   252   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    254   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      330   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      note 41list of subsidiaries and associated
      companies pursuant to section 313                                                                     september 30, 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                          equity interest
                                                                                                                                                                                                     in %
      para. 2 of the german commercial code                                                                 messma gmbh, irxleben                                                                 100
                                                                                                            omnetric gmbh, munich                                                                  51
                                                                                                            optio grundstücks-vermietungsgesellschaft mbh & co. objekt
                                                                                                            tübingen kg, grünwald                                                                 100 10
                                                                                         equity interest
      september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    partikeltherapiezentrum kiel holding gmbh, erlangen                                   100 11
      subsidiaries                                                                                          project ventures butendiek holding gmbh, erlangen                                     100 11
      germany (115 companies)                                                                               projektbau-arena-berlin gmbh, grünwald                                                100 11
      airport munich logistics and services gmbh, hallbergmoos                                   100        r & s restaurant services gmbh, munich                                                100
      alpha verteilertechnik gmbh, cham                                                          100 11     remech systemtechnik gmbh, kamsdorf                                                   100 11
      anlagen- und rohrleitungsbau ratingen gmbh, ratingen                                       100 8      rhg vermögensverwaltung gmbh, berlin                                                  100 11
      as audio-service gesellschaft mit beschränkter haftung,                                               risicom rückversicherung ag, grünwald                                                 100
      herford                                                                                    100        samtech deutschland gmbh, hamburg                                                     100
      atecs mannesmann gmbh, erlangen                                                            100        siemens audiologische technik gmbh, erlangen                                          100
      berliner vermögensverwaltung gmbh, berlin                                                  100 11     siemens bank gmbh, munich                                                             100
      blitz 14-658 gmbh, munich                                                                  100 8      siemens beteiligungen inland gmbh, munich                                             100 11
      blitz 14-660 gmbh, munich                                                                  100 8      siemens beteiligungen management gmbh, grünwald                                       100 8
      blitz 14-661 gmbh, munich                                                                  100 8      siemens beteiligungen usa gmbh, berlin                                                100 11
      bwi services gmbh, meckenheim                                                              100 11     siemens beteiligungsverwaltung gmbh & co. ohg, grünwald                               100 10
      capta grundstücksgesellschaft mbh & co. kg i.l., grünwald                                  100   10
                                                                                                            siemens campus erlangen grundstücks-gmbh & co. kg,
      capta grundstücks-verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh, grünwald                                    100        ­grünwald                                                                             100 10
      da creative gmbh, munich                                                                   100        siemens campus erlangen objekt 1 gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                              100 10
      dade behring beteiligungs gmbh, eschborn                                                   100        siemens campus erlangen objektmanagement gmbh,
      dade behring grundstücks gmbh, marburg                                                     100        ­grünwald                                                                             100 8
      edi – uss umsatzsteuersammelrechnungen und signaturen                                                 siemens campus erlangen verwaltungs-gmbh, grünwald                                    100 8
      gmbh & co. kg, munich                                                                      100 10     siemens convergence creators gmbh & co. kg, hamburg                                   100 10
      edi – uss verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh, munich                                              100   8
                                                                                                            siemens convergence creators management gmbh, hamburg                                 100 8
      evosoft gmbh, nuremberg                                                                    100 11     siemens energy automation gmbh, erlangen                                              100
      facta grundstücks-entwicklungsgesellschaft mbh & co. kg,                                              siemens finance & leasing gmbh, munich                                                100 11
      munich                                                                                     100 10     siemens financial services gmbh, munich                                               100 11
      hansecom gesellschaft für informations- und                                                           siemens fonds invest gmbh, munich                                                     100 11
      ­kommunikationsdienstleistungen mbh, hamburg                                                74        siemens fuel gasification technology gmbh & co. kg,
      hsp hochspannungsgeräte gmbh, troisdorf                                                    100 11     freiberg                                                                              100 10
      ibs aktiengesellschaft excellence, collaboration,                                                     siemens fuel gasification technology verwaltungs gmbh,
      ­manufacturing, höhr-grenzhausen                                                           100 11     freiberg                                                                              100 8
      illit grundstücks-verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh & co. kg i.l.,                                          siemens global innovation partners management gmbh,
      grünwald                                                                                   100 10     munich                                                                                100 8
      illit grundstücksverwaltungs-management gmbh, grünwald                                      85        siemens grundstücksmanagement gmbh & co. ohg,
      ipgd grundstücksverwaltungs-gesellschaft mbh, grünwald                                     100        ­grünwald                                                                             100 10
      jawa power holding gmbh, erlangen                                                          100 11     siemens healthcare diagnostics gmbh, eschborn                                         100
      komptime gmbh, munich                                                                      100 11     siemens healthcare diagnostics holding gmbh, eschborn                                 100
      kyros 46 verwaltungs gmbh, constance                                                       100 8      siemens healthcare diagnostics products gmbh, marburg                                 100
      lincas electro vertriebsgesellschaft mbh, hamburg                                          100        siemens immobilien chemnitz-voerde gmbh, grünwald                                     100
      mannesmann demag krauss-maffei gmbh, munich                                                100        siemens industriegetriebe gmbh, penig                                                 100 11
      mechanik center erlangen gmbh, erlangen                                                    100   11
                                                                                                            siemens industriepark karlsruhe gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                               100 10


                 1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                 2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                    ­management personnel.
                                                                                                             8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
                 3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                             9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                    of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                            10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                 4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                            11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
                 5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




      108   a.       to our shareholders                                    131   b.    corporate ­governance                              171   c.     combined ­management report
318

                                                                                   equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
siemens industry automation holding ag, munich                                             100 11     verwaltung searenergy offshore projects gmbh i.l., hamburg                            100
siemens industry software gmbh & co. kg, cologne                                           100 10     vib verkehrsinformationsagentur bayern gmbh, munich                                    51
siemens industry software management gmbh, cologne                                         100 8      vmz berlin betreibergesellschaft mbh, berlin                                          100
siemens insulation center gmbh & co. kg, zwönitz                                           100 10     vr-leasing ikana gmbh & co. immobilien kg, eschborn                                    94 3
siemens insulation center verwaltungs-gmbh, zwönitz                                        100 8      vvk versicherungsvermittlungs- und verkehrskontor gmbh,
siemens medical solutions health services gmbh, erlangen                                   100        munich                                                                                100 11
siemens nixdorf informationssysteme gmbh, grünwald                                         100        weiss spindeltechnologie gmbh, schweinfurt                                            100
siemens novel businesses gmbh, munich                                                      100 11
siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics gmbh, constance                                 100 8      europe, commonwealth of independent states (c.i.s.),
siemens power control gmbh, langen                                                         100 11     ­africa, middle east (without germany) (260 companies)
siemens private finance versicherungs- und                                                            estel rail automation spa, algiers / algeria                                           51
­kapitalanlagenvermittlungs-gmbh, munich                                                   100 11     siemens spa, algiers / algeria                                                        100
siemens project ventures gmbh, erlangen                                                    100 11     siemens s.a., luanda / angola                                                          51
siemens real estate gmbh & co. ohg, grünwald                                               100 10     etm professional control gmbh, eisenstadt / austria                                   100
siemens real estate management gmbh, grünwald                                              100 8      hochquellstrom-vertriebs gmbh, vienna / austria                                       100
siemens spezial-investmentaktiengesellschaft mit tgv, munich                               100        ith icoserve technology for healthcare gmbh,
siemens technology accelerator gmbh, munich                                                100 11     innsbruck / austria                                                                    69
siemens technopark mülheim gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                                         100 10     kdag beteiligungen gmbh, vienna / austria                                             100
siemens technopark mülheim verwaltungs gmbh, grünwald                                      100        landis & staefa (österreich) gmbh, vienna / austria                                   100
siemens technopark nürnberg gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                                        100 10     landis & staefa gmbh, vienna / austria                                                100
siemens technopark nürnberg verwaltungs gmbh, grünwald                                     100        omnetric gmbh, vienna / austria                                                       100
siemens treasury gmbh, munich                                                              100 11     saudi voest-alpine gmbh, linz / austria                                               100
siemens turbomachinery equipment gmbh, frankenthal                                         100 11     siemens aktiengesellschaft österreich, vienna / austria                               100
siemens vai metals technologies gmbh, willstätt-legelshurst                                100        siemens convergence creators gmbh, eisenstadt / austria                               100
siemens venture capital gmbh, munich                                                       100 11     siemens convergence creators gmbh, vienna / austria                                   100
sillit grundstücks-verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh, munich                                     100        siemens convergence creators holding gmbh, vienna / austria                           100
sim 16. grundstücksverwaltungs- und -beteiligungs-­                                                   siemens gebäudemanagement & -services g.m.b.h.,
gmbh & co. kg, munich                                                                      100 10     vienna / austria                                                                      100
sim 2. grundstücks-gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                                                 100 10     siemens healthcare diagnostics gmbh, vienna / austria                                 100
simar nordost grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                                   100 11     siemens industry software gmbh, linz / austria                                        100
simar nordwest grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                                  100 11     siemens konzernbeteiligungen gmbh, vienna / austria                                   100
simar ost grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                                       100 11     siemens liegenschaftsverwaltung gmbh, vienna / austria                                100
simar süd grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                                       100 11     siemens personaldienstleistungen gmbh, vienna / austria                               100
simar west grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                                      100 11     siemens urban rail technologies holding gmbh,
simos real estate gmbh, munich                                                             100 11     vienna / austria                                                                       75
skag fonds c1, munich                                                                      100        siemens vai metals technologies gmbh, linz / austria                                  100
skag fonds s7, munich                                                                      100        steiermärkische medizinarchiv gesmbh, graz / austria                                   52
skag fonds s8, munich                                                                      100        trench austria gmbh, leonding / austria                                               100
skag principals, munich                                                                    100        vvk versicherungs-vermittlungs- und verkehrs-kontor gmbh,
sky eye transportation systems gmbh i.l., braunschweig                                     100 8      vienna / austria                                                                      100
sykatec systeme, komponenten, anwendungstechnologie                                                   siemens w.l.l., manama / bahrain                                                       51
gmbh, erlangen                                                                             100 11     samtech sa, angleur / belgium                                                          79
trench germany gmbh, bamberg                                                               100 11     siemens healthcare diagnostics sa, brussels / belgium                                 100
turbine airfoil coating and repair gmbh, berlin                                            100        siemens industry software nv, leuven / belgium                                        100


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
              ­management personnel.
                                                                                                       8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                       9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
              of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                      11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
           5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




247   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      319
248   d.1      consolidated statements of income                      252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income       254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position         330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                         equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
      september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
      siemens product lifecycle management software ii (be) bvba,                                           siemens vai metals technologies sas, savigneux / france                               100
      anderlecht / belgium                                                                       100        trench france s.a.s., saint-louis / france                                            100
      siemens s.a./n.v., beersel / belgium                                                       100        tecnomatix technologies (gibraltar) limited,
      siemens vai metal technologies s.a/n.v, beersel / belgium                                  100 8      gibraltar/gibraltar                                                                   100
      siemens d.o.o., banja luka / bosnia and herzegovina                                        100        siemens a.e., elektrotechnische projekte und erzeugnisse,
      siemens d.o.o. sarajevo, sarajevo / bosnia and herzegovina                                 100        ­athens / greece                                                                      100
      siemens pty. ltd., gaborone / botswana                                                     100        siemens healthcare diagnostics abee, athens / greece                                  100
      siemens eood, sofia / bulgaria                                                             100        evosoft hungary szamitastechnikai kft., budapest / hungary                            100
      koncar power transformers d.o.o., zagreb / croatia                                          51        siemens audiológiai technika kereskedelmi és szolgáltató
      siemens convergence creators d.o.o., zagreb / croatia                                      100        korlátolt felelösségü társaság, budapest / hungary                                    100
      siemens d.d., zagreb / croatia                                                             100        siemens pse program- és rendszerfejlesztö kft.,
      j. n. kelly security holding limited, larnaka / cyprus                                     100        budapest / hungary                                                                    100
      oez s.r.o., letohrad / czech republic                                                      100        siemens zrt., budapest / hungary                                                      100
      siemens audiologická technika s.r.o., prague / czech republic                              100        siemens sherkate sahami (khass), teheran / iran,
      siemens convergence creators, s.r.o., prague / czech republic                              100        islamic republic of                                                                    97
      siemens electric machines s.r.o., drasov / czech republic                                  100        europlex technologies (ireland) limited, dublin / ireland                             100
      siemens industry software, s.r.o., prague / czech republic                                 100        imetrex technologies limited, dublin / ireland                                        100
      siemens vai metals technologies, s.r.o.,                                                              siemens limited, dublin / ireland                                                     100
      ostrava / czech republic                                                                   100 8      robcad limited, airport city / israel                                                 100
      siemens, s.r.o., prague / czech republic                                                   100        siemens concentrated solar power ltd., rosh haayin / israel                           100
      siemens a/s, ballerup / denmark                                                            100        siemens industry software ltd., airport city / israel                                 100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics aps, ballerup / denmark                                     100        siemens israel ltd., tel aviv / israel                                                100
      siemens höreapparater a/s, ballerup / denmark                                              100        siemens israel projects ltd., rosh haayin / israel                                    100 8
      siemens industry software a/s, ballerup / denmark                                          100        siemens product lifecycle management software 2 (il) ltd.,
      siemens wind power a/s, brande / denmark                                                   100        airport city / israel                                                                 100
      nem energy egypt llc, alexandria / egypt                                                   100        ugs israeli holdings (israel) ltd., airport city / israel                             100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics s.a.e, cairo / egypt                                        100        hv-turbo italia s.r.l., mornago / italy                                               100
      siemens ltd. for trading, cairo / egypt                                                    100        samtech italia s.r.l., milan / italy                                                  100
      siemens technologies s.a.e., cairo / egypt                                                  90        siemens healthcare diagnostics s.r.l., milan / italy                                  100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics oy, espoo / finland                                         100        siemens hearing instruments s.r.l., milan / italy                                     100
      siemens osakeyhtiö, espoo / finland                                                        100        siemens industry software s.r.l., milan / italy                                       100
      flender-graffenstaden sas, illkirch-graffenstaden / france                                 100        siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics s.r.l., milan / italy                      100
      lms france s.a.r.l, vélizy-villacoublay / france                                           100        siemens renting s.p.a. in liquidazione, milan / italy                                 100
      lms imagine, roanne / france                                                               100        siemens s.p.a., milan / italy                                                         100
      petnet solutions sas, saint-denis / france                                                 100        siemens transformers s.p.a., trento / italy                                           100
      samtech france, massy / france                                                             100        siemens vai metals technologies s.r.l., marnate / italy                               100 8
      siemens audiologie s.a.s., saint-denis / france                                            100        trench italia s.r.l., savona / italy                                                  100
      siemens financial services sas, saint-denis / france                                       100        siemens too, almaty / kazakhstan                                                      100
      siemens france holding, saint-denis / france                                               100        siemens kenya ltd., nairobi / kenya                                                   100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics s.a.s., saint-denis / france                                100        siemens electrical & electronic services k.s.c.c.,
      siemens industry software sas, vélizy-villacoublay / france                                100        kuwait city / kuwait                                                                   49 2
      siemens lease services sas, saint-denis / france                                           100        tecnomatix technologies sarl, luxembourg / luxembourg                                 100
      siemens postal parcel airport logistics s.a.s., paris / france                             100 8      tfm international s.a. i.l., luxembourg / luxembourg                                  100
      siemens s.a.s., saint-denis / france                                                       100        siemens d.o.o. podgorica, podgorica / montenegro                                      100


                 1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                 2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                    ­management personnel.
                                                                                                             8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
                 3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                             9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                    of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                            10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                 4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                            11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
                 5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




      108   a.       to our shareholders                                    131   b.    corporate ­governance                              171     c.   combined ­management report
320

                                                                                   equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
scientific medical solution diagnostics s.a.r.l.,                                                     siemens (austria) proiect spital coltea srl,
­casablanca / morocco                                                                      100        bucharest / romania                                                                   100
siemens plant operations tahaddart sarl, tanger / morocco                                  100        siemens convergence creators s.r.l., brasov / romania                                 100
siemens s.a., casablanca / morocco                                                         100        siemens industry software s.r.l., brasov / romania                                    100
siemens lda., maputo / mozambique                                                          100        siemens s.r.l., bucharest / romania                                                   100
siemens pty. ltd., windhoek / namibia                                                      100        simea sibiu s.r.l., sibiu / romania                                                   100
castor iii b.v., amsterdam / netherlands                                                   100        ooo legion ii, moscow / russian federation                                            100
lms instruments bv, breda / netherlands                                                    100        ooo russian turbo machinery, perm / russian federation                                100
nem energy b.v., leiden / netherlands                                                      100        ooo siemens, moscow / russian federation                                              100
nem energy holding b.v., the hague / netherlands                                           100        ooo siemens elektroprivod, st. petersburg / russian federation                         66
omnetric b.v., the hague / netherlands                                                     100        ooo siemens gas turbine technologies, novoe
pollux iii b.v., amsterdam / netherlands                                                   100        ­devyatkino / russian federation                                                      100
siemens audiologie techniek b.v., the hague / netherlands                                  100        ooo siemens high voltage products, ufimsky
siemens diagnostics holding ii b.v., the hague / netherlands                               100        ­district / ­russian federation                                                       100
siemens finance b.v., the hague / netherlands                                              100        ooo siemens industry software, moscow / russian federation                            100
siemens financieringsmaatschappij n.v.,                                                               ooo siemens transformers, voronezh / russian federation                               100
the hague / netherlands                                                                    100        ooo siemens urban rail technologies, moscow / russian
siemens gas turbine technologies holding b.v.,                                                        federation                                                                            100
the hague / netherlands                                                                     65        ooo siemens vai metals technologies, moscow /
siemens healthcare diagnostics b.v., breda / netherlands                                   100        russian federation                                                                    100 8
siemens industry software b.v., ’s-hertogenbosch /                                                    siemens finance llc, vladivostok / russian federation                                 100
netherlands                                                                                100        siemens research center limited liability company,
siemens international holding b.v., the hague / netherlands                                100        ­moscow / russian federation                                                          100
siemens medical solutions diagnostics holding i b.v.,                                                 arabia electric ltd. (equipment), jeddah / saudi arabia                                51
the hague / netherlands                                                                    100        iscosa industries and maintenance ltd., riyadh / saudi arabia                          51
siemens nederland n.v., the hague / netherlands                                            100        siemens ltd., riyadh / saudi arabia                                                    51
siemens ltd., lagos / nigeria                                                              100        va tech t & d co. ltd., riyadh / saudi arabia                                          51
siemens as, oslo / norway                                                                  100        westinghouse saudi arabia ltd., riyadh / saudi arabia                                 100 8
siemens healthcare diagnostics as, oslo / norway                                           100        siemens d.o.o. beograd, belgrade / serbia                                             100
siemens höreapparater as, oslo / norway                                                    100        oez slovakia, spol. s r.o., bratislava / slovakia                                     100
siemens l.l.c., muscat / oman                                                               51        sat systémy automatizacnej techniky spol. s.r.o.,
siemens pakistan engineering co. ltd., karachi / pakistan                                   75        bratislava / slovakia                                                                  60
audio sat sp. z o.o., poznan / poland                                                      100        siemens program and system engineering s.r.o.,
siemens finance sp. z o.o., warsaw / poland                                                100        bratislava / slovakia                                                                 100
siemens industry software sp. z o.o., warsaw / poland                                      100        siemens s.r.o., bratislava / slovakia                                                 100
siemens sp. z o.o., warsaw / poland                                                        100        siprin s.r.o., bratislava / slovakia                                                  100
siemens vai metals technologies spólka z ograniczona                                                  siemens d.o.o., ljubljana / slovenia                                                  100
­odpowiedzialnoscia, cracow / poland                                                       100 8      linacre investments (pty) ltd., kenilworth / south africa                               03
siemens healthcare diagnostics, unipessoal lda.,                                                      marqott (proprietory) limited, pretoria / south africa                                100
amadora / portugal                                                                         100        marqott holdings (pty.) ltd., pretoria / south africa                                 100
siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics, unipessoal lda,                                           siemens (proprietary) limited, midrand / south africa                                  70
­lisbon / portugal                                                                         100        siemens building technologies (pty) ltd., midrand/south africa                        100
siemens s.a., amadora / portugal                                                           100        siemens employee share ownership trust,
siemens w.l.l., doha / qatar                                                                40 2      johannesburg / south africa                                                             03


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
              ­management personnel.
                                                                                                       8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                       9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
              of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                      11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
           5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




247   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      321
248   d.1      consolidated statements of income                      252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income       254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position         330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                         equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
      september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
      siemens healthcare diagnostics (pty.) limited,                                                        siemens vai metal teknolojileri sanayi ve ticaret a.s.,
      isando / south africa                                                                      100        ­istanbul / turkey                                                                    100 8
      siemens hearing solution (pty.) ltd., randburg / south africa                              100        100% foreign owned subsidiary “siemens ukraine”,
      siemens it solutions and services (pty) ltd.,                                                         kiev / ukraine                                                                        100
      johannesburg / south africa                                                                100        limited liability company “siemens vai metals
      fábrica electrotécnica josa, s.a., barcelona / spain                                       100        ­technologies”, kiev / ukraine                                                        100 8
      petnet soluciones, s.l., sociedad unipersonal,                                                        gulf steam generators l.l.c., dubai / united arab emirates                            100
      madrid / spain                                                                             100        sd (middle east) llc, dubai / united arab emirates                                     49 2
      samtech iberica engineering & software services s.l.,                                                 siemens llc, abu dhabi / united arab emirates                                          49 2
      barcelona / spain                                                                          100        siemens middle east limited, masdar city/
      siemens healthcare diagnostics s.l., barcelona / spain                                     100        united arab emirates                                                                  100
      siemens holding s.l., madrid / spain                                                       100        electrium sales limited, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                             100
      siemens industry software s.l., barcelona / spain                                          100        gym renewables limited, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                              100
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics, s.l. sociedad                                             gym renewables one limited, frimley, surrey/united kingdom                            100
      unipersonal, madrid / spain                                                                100        leuven measurement & systems uk limited, frimley,
      siemens rail automation holding s.a., madrid / spain                                       100        surrey / united kingdom                                                               100
      siemens rail automation s.a.u., madrid / spain                                             100        marine current turbines limited, frimley, surrey/united kingdom                       100
      siemens renting s.a., madrid / spain                                                       100        preactor international limited, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                      100
      siemens s.a., madrid / spain                                                               100        project ventures rail investments i limited, frimley,
      telecomunicación, electrónica y conmutación s.a.,                                                     surrey / united kingdom                                                               100
      madrid / spain                                                                             100        samtech uk limited, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                                  100
      siemens ab, upplands väsby / sweden                                                        100        sbs pension funding (scotland) limited partnership,
      siemens financial services ab, stockholm / sweden                                          100        ­edinburgh / united kingdom                                                            57 3
      siemens healthcare diagnostics ab, södertälje / sweden                                     100        sea generation (brough ness) limited, frimley,
      siemens industrial turbomachinery ab, finspång / sweden                                    100        surrey / united kingdom                                                               100
      siemens industry software ab, kista / sweden                                               100        sea generation (kyle rhea) limited, frimley,
      huba control ag, würenlos / switzerland                                                    100        surrey / united kingdom                                                               100
      siemens audiologie ag, adliswil / switzerland                                              100        sea generation (wales) ltd., frimley, surrey / united kingdom                         100
      siemens fuel gasification technology holding ag,                                                      sea generation limited, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                              100
      zug / switzerland                                                                          100        siemens financial services holdings ltd., stoke poges,
      siemens healthcare diagnostics ag, zurich / switzerland                                    100        ­buckinghamshire / united kingdom                                                     100
      siemens industry software ag, zurich / switzerland                                         100        siemens financial services ltd., stoke poges, ­
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics ag,                                                        buckinghamshire / united kingdom                                                      100
      zurich / switzerland                                                                       100        siemens healthcare diagnostics ltd., frimley,
      siemens power holding ag, zug / switzerland                                                100        surrey / united kingdom                                                               100
      siemens schweiz ag, zurich / switzerland                                                   100        siemens healthcare diagnostics manufacturing ltd, frimley,
      stadt/land immobilien ag, zurich / switzerland                                             100        surrey / united kingdom                                                               100
      siemens tanzania ltd., dar es salaam / tanzania,                                                      siemens healthcare diagnostics products ltd, frimley,
      united republic of                                                                         100        surrey / united kingdom                                                               100
      siemens s.a., tunis / tunisia                                                              100        siemens hearing instruments ltd., crawley,
      siemens finansal kiralama a.s., istanbul / turkey                                          100        west sussex / united kingdom                                                          100
      siemens isitme cihazlari sanayi ve ticaret anonim sirketi,                                            siemens holdings plc, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                                100
      istanbul / turkey                                                                          100        siemens industrial turbomachinery ltd., frimley,
      siemens sanayi ve ticaret a.s., istanbul / turkey                                          100        surrey / united kingdom                                                               100


                 1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                 2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                    ­management personnel.
                                                                                                             8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
                 3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                             9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                    of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                            10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                 4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                            11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
                 5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




      108   a.       to our shareholders                                    131   b.    corporate ­governance                              171   c.     combined ­management report
322

                                                                                   equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
siemens industry software limited, frimley,                                                           siemens eletroeletronica limitada, manaus / brazil                                    100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        siemens healthcare diagnósticos ltda., são paulo / brazil                             100
siemens pension funding (general) limited, frimley,                                                   siemens industry software ltda., são caetano do sul / brazil                          100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        siemens ltda., são paulo / brazil                                                     100
siemens pension funding limited, frimley,                                                             siemens rail automation ltda., são paulo / brazil                                     100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        siemens vai metals services ltda., volta redonda / brazil                             100
siemens plc, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                                              100        vai – ingdesi automation ltda., belo horizonte / brazil                               100
siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics limited, frimley,                                          hearcanada inc., oakville / canada                                                    100
­surrey / united kingdom                                                                   100        siemens canada ltd., ontario / canada                                                 100
siemens protection devices limited, frimley,                                                          siemens financial ltd., oakville / canada                                             100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        siemens hearing instruments inc., ontario / canada                                    100
siemens rail automation holdings limited, frimley,                                                    siemens industry software ltd., ontario / canada                                      100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics ltd., oakville / canada                    100
siemens rail automation limited, frimley,                                                             siemens transformers canada inc., trois-rivières / canada                             100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        trench ltd., saint john / canada                                                      100
siemens rail systems project holdings limited, frimley,                                               wheelabrator air pollution control (canada) inc.,
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        ontario / canada                                                                      100
siemens rail systems project limited, frimley,                                                        siemens healthcare diagnostics manufacturing limited,
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        george town / cayman islands                                                          100
siemens transmission & distribution limited, frimley,                                                 siemens s.a., santiago de chile / chile                                               100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        siemens manufacturing s.a., bogotá / colombia                                         100
siemens vai metals technologies limited, frimley,                                                     siemens s.a., costado sur – tenjo / colombia                                          100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        siemens healthcare diagnostics s.a., san josé / costa rica                            100
the preactor group limited, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                               100        siemens s.a., san josé / costa rica                                                   100
tronic ltd., frimley, surrey / united kingdom                                              100        siemens, s.r.l., santo domingo / dominican republic                                   100
va tech (uk) ltd., frimley, surrey / united kingdom                                        100        siemens s.a., quito / ecuador                                                         100
va tech reyrolle distribution ltd., frimley,                                                          siemens s.a., san salvador / el salvador                                              100
surrey / united kingdom                                                                    100        siemens healthcare diagnostics guatemala, s.a.,
va tech t & d uk ltd., frimley, surrey / united kingdom                                    100        ­guatemala / guatemala                                                                100
vtw anlagen uk ltd., banbury, oxfordshire / united kingdom                                 100        siemens s.a., guatemala / guatemala                                                   100
                                                                                                      siemens s.a., tegucigalpa / honduras                                                  100
americas (96 companies)                                                                               dade behring, s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                     100
siemens it services s.a., buenos aires / argentina                                         100        grupo siemens s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                     100
siemens s.a., buenos aires / argentina                                                     100        indústria de trabajos eléctricos s.a. de c.v., ciudad
va tech international argentina sa, buenos aires / argentina                               100        juárez / mexico                                                                       100
 siemens soluciones tecnologicas s.a., santa cruz de la                                               siemens healthcare diagnostics, s. de r.l. de c.v., méxico,
­sierra / bolivia, plurinational state of                                                  100        d.f. / mexico                                                                         100
chemtech servicos de engenharia e software ltda.,                                                     siemens industry software, sa de cv, méxico, d.f. / mexico                            100
rio de janeiro / brazil                                                                    100        siemens inmobiliaria s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                              100
iriel indústria e cómercio de sistemas eléctricos ltda.,                                              siemens innovaciones s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                              100
canoas / brazil                                                                            100        siemens servicios s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                 100
lms da américa do sul servicos de engenharia ltda,                                                    siemens vai metals technologies, s. de r.l. de c.v.,
são caetano do sul / brazil                                                                100        apodaca / mexico                                                                      100 8
siemens aparelhos auditivos ltda., são paulo / brazil                                      100        siemens, s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                          100


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
              ­management personnel.
                                                                                                       8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                       9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
              of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                      11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
           5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




247   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      323
248   d.1      consolidated statements of income                      252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income       254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position         330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                         equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
      september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
      siemens s.a., managua / nicaragua                                                          100        siemens medical solutions usa, inc., wilmington,
      siemens healthcare diagnostics panama, s.a.,                                                          de / united states                                                                    100
      panama city / panama                                                                       100        siemens molecular imaging, inc., wilmington,
      siemens s.a., panama city / panama                                                         100        de / united states                                                                    100
      siemens s.a.c., lima / peru                                                                100        siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics llc, wilmington,
      audiology distribution, llc, wilmington, de / united states                                100        de / united states                                                                    100
      emeter corporation, wilmington, de / united states                                         100        siemens power generation service company, ltd.,
      fce international, llc, huntingdon valley, pa / united states                              100        ­wilmington, de / united states                                                       100
      hearusa ipa, inc., new york, ny / united states                                            100        siemens product lifecycle management software inc.,
      hearx west llc, wilmington, de / united states                                              50 2      ­wilmington, de / united states                                                       100
      hearx west, inc., los angeles, ca / united states                                          100        siemens public, inc., wilmington, de / united states                                  100
      ibs america, inc., wilmington, de / united states                                          100        siemens usa holdings, inc., wilmington, de / united states                            100
      mannesmann corporation, new york, ny / united states                                       100        siemens vai metals technologies llc, wilmington,
      nem usa corp., wilmington, de / united states                                              100        de / united states                                                                    100 8
      nimbus technologies, llc, bingham farms, mi / united states                                100        smi holding llc, wilmington, de / united states                                       100
      omnetric corp., wilmington, de / united states                                             100        wheelabrator air pollution control inc., baltimore,
      p.e.t.net houston, llc, austin, tx / united states                                          51        md / united states                                                                    100
      petnet indiana llc, indianapolis, in / united states                                        50 1      winergy drive systems corporation, wilmington,
      petnet solutions cleveland, llc, wilmington,                                                          de / united states                                                                    100
      de / united states                                                                          63        siemens s.a., montevideo / uruguay                                                    100
      petnet solutions, inc., knoxville, tn / united states                                      100        siemens telecomunicaciones s.a., montevideo / uruguay                                 100
      siemens capital company llc, wilmington, de / united states                                100        siemens rail automation, c.a., caracas / venezuela,
      siemens convergence creators corp., wilmington,                                                       bolivarian republic of                                                                100
      de / united states                                                                         100        siemens s.a., caracas / venezuela, bolivarian republic of                             100
      siemens corporation, wilmington, de / united states                                        100        dade behring hong kong holdings corporation,
      siemens credit warehouse, inc., wilmington,                                                           tortola / virgin islands, british                                                     100
      de / united states                                                                         100
      siemens demag delaval turbomachinery, inc., wilmington,                                               asia, australia (133 companies)
      de / united states                                                                         100        australia hospital holding pty limited, bayswater / australia                         100
      siemens electrical, llc, wilmington, de / united states                                    100        exemplar health (nbh) 2 pty limited, bayswater / australia                            100 8
      siemens energy, inc., wilmington, de / united states                                       100        exemplar health (nbh) holdings 2 pty limited,
      siemens financial services, inc., wilmington,                                                         bayswater / australia                                                                 100
      de / united states                                                                         100        exemplar health (nbh) trust 2, bayswater / australia                                  100
      siemens financial, inc., wilmington, de / united states                                    100        exemplar health (scuh) 3 pty limited, bayswater / australia                           100 8
      siemens fossil services, inc., wilmington, de / united states                              100        exemplar health (scuh) 4 pty limited, bayswater / australia                           100 8
      siemens generation services company, wilmington,                                                      exemplar health (scuh) holdings 3 pty limited,
      de / united states                                                                         100        bayswater / australia                                                                 100
      siemens government technologies, inc., wilmington,                                                    exemplar health (scuh) holdings 4 pty limited,
      de / united states                                                                         100        bayswater / australia                                                                 100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics inc., los angeles,                                                     exemplar health (scuh) trust 3, bayswater / australia                                 100
      ca / united states                                                                         100        exemplar health (scuh) trust 4, bayswater / australia                                 100
      siemens hearing instruments, inc., wilmington,                                                        memcor australia pty. ltd., south windsor / australia                                 100
      de / united states                                                                         100        siemens hearing instruments pty. ltd., bayswater / australia                          100
      siemens industry, inc., wilmington, de / united states                                     100        siemens ltd., bayswater / australia                                                   100


                 1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                 2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                    ­management personnel.
                                                                                                             8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
                 3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                             9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                    of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                            10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                 4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                            11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
                 5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




      108   a.       to our shareholders                                    131   b.    corporate ­governance                              171   c.     combined ­management report
324

                                                                                   equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
siemens rail automation holding pty. ltd., clayton / australia                             100        siemens manufacturing and engineering centre ltd.,
siemens rail automation investment pty. ltd.,                                                         shanghai / china                                                                       51
clayton / australia                                                                        100        siemens mechanical drive systems (tianjin) co., ltd.,
siemens rail automation pty. ltd., clayton / australia                                     100        tianjin / china                                                                       100
westinghouse mckenzie-holland pty ltd, clayton / australia                                 100        siemens medium voltage switching technologies (wuxi) ltd.,
siemens bangladesh ltd., dhaka / bangladesh                                                100        wuxi / china                                                                           85
beijing siemens cerberus electronics ltd., beijing / china                                 100        siemens numerical control ltd., nanjing, nanjing / china                               80
dpc (tianjin) co., ltd., tianjin / china                                                   100        siemens plm software (shenzhen) limited, shenzhen / china                             100
gis steel & aluminum products co., ltd. hangzhou,                                                     siemens power automation ltd., nanjing / china                                        100
hangzhou / china                                                                            51        siemens power equipment packages co. ltd., shanghai,
ibs industrial business software (shanghai), ltd.,                                                    shanghai / china                                                                       65
shanghai / china                                                                           100        siemens power plant automation ltd., nanjing / china                                  100
mwb (shanghai) co ltd., shanghai / china                                                    65        siemens rail automation technical consulting services
siemens building technologies (tianjin) ltd., tianjin / china                               70        (beijing) co. ltd., beijing / china                                                   100
siemens business information consulting co., ltd, beijing/china                            100        siemens real estate management (beijing) ltd., co.,
siemens circuit protection systems ltd., shanghai,                                                    beijing / china                                                                       100
shanghai / china                                                                            75        siemens sensors & communication ltd., dalian / china                                  100
siemens eco-city innovation technologies (tianjin) co., ltd.,                                         siemens shanghai medical equipment ltd., shanghai / china                             100
tianjin / china                                                                             60        siemens shenzhen magnetic resonance ltd.,
siemens electrical apparatus ltd., suzhou, suzhou / china                                  100        shenzhen / china                                                                      100
siemens electrical drives (shanghai) ltd., shanghai / china                                100        siemens signalling co. ltd., xi’an, xi’an / china                                      70
siemens electrical drives ltd., tianjin / china                                             85        siemens special electrical machines co. ltd., changzhi / china                         77
siemens factory automation engineering ltd., beijing / china                               100        siemens standard motors ltd., yizheng / china                                         100
siemens finance and leasing ltd., beijing / china                                          100        siemens surge arresters ltd., wuxi / china                                            100
siemens financial services ltd., beijing / china                                           100        siemens switchgear ltd., shanghai, shanghai / china                                    55
siemens gas turbine parts ltd., shanghai, shanghai / china                                  51        siemens technology development co., ltd. of beijing,
siemens healthcare diagnostics (shanghai) co. ltd.,                                                   beijing / china                                                                        90
shanghai / china                                                                           100        siemens transformer (guangzhou) co., ltd.,
siemens hearing instruments (suzhou) co. ltd., suzhou / china                              100        guangzhou / china                                                                      63
siemens high voltage circuit breaker co., ltd., hangzhou,                                             siemens transformer (jinan) co., ltd, jinan / china                                    90
hangzhou / china                                                                            51        siemens transformer (wuhan) company ltd.,
siemens high voltage switchgear co., ltd. shanghai,                                                   wuhan city / china                                                                    100
shanghai / china                                                                            51        siemens vai international trading co., ltd., shanghai,
siemens high voltage switchgear guangzhou ltd.,                                                       ­shanghai / china                                                                     100 8
guangzhou / china                                                                           94        siemens vai manufacturing (taicang) co., ltd., taicang / china                        100
siemens industrial automation ltd., shanghai, shanghai / china                             100        siemens vai metals technologies co., ltd., shanghai,
siemens industrial turbomachinery (huludao) co. ltd.,                                                 ­shanghai / china                                                                     100
huludao / china                                                                             84        siemens venture capital co., ltd., beijing / china                                    100
siemens industry software (beijing) co., ltd., beijing / china                             100        siemens water technologies ltd., beijing / china                                      100
siemens industry software (shanghai) co., ltd.,                                                       siemens wind power blades (shanghai) co., ltd.,
shanghai / china                                                                           100        shanghai / china                                                                      100
siemens international trading ltd., shanghai, shanghai / china                             100        siemens wind power turbines (shanghai) co. ltd.,
siemens investment consulting co., ltd., beijing / china                                   100        shanghai / china                                                                       49 2
siemens ltd., china, beijing / china                                                       100        siemens wiring accessories shandong ltd., zibo / china                                100


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
              ­management personnel.
                                                                                                       8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                       9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
              of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                      11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
           5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




247   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      325
248   d.1      consolidated statements of income                      252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income       254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position         330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                         equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
      september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
      siemens x-ray vacuum technology ltd.,wuxi, wuxi / china                                    100        siemens ltd. seoul, seoul / korea, republic of                                        100
      smart metering solutions (changsha) co. ltd., changsha/china                                60        siemens petnet korea co. ltd., seoul / korea, republic of                             100
      trench high voltage products ltd., shenyang, shenyang / china                               65        siemens vai metals technologies limited, seoul / korea,
      winergy drive systems (tianjin) co. ltd., tianjin / china                                  100        ­republic of                                                                          100 8
      yangtze delta manufacturing co. ltd., hangzhou,                                                       hrsg systems (malaysia) sdn. bhd., kuala lumpur / malaysia                            100
      hangzhou / china                                                                            51        reyrolle (malaysia) sdn. bhd., kuala lumpur / malaysia                                100
      asia care holding limited, hong kong / hong kong                                           100 8      siemens malaysia sdn. bhd., petaling jaya / malaysia                                  100
      samtech hk ltd, hong kong / hong kong                                                      100        siemens subsea systems sdn. bhd, kuala lumpur / malaysia                              100
      siemens industry software limited, hong kong / hong kong                                   100        va tech malaysia sdn. bhd., kuala lumpur / malaysia                                   100
      siemens ltd., hong kong / hong kong                                                        100        siemens (n.z.) limited, auckland / new zealand                                        100
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics limited,                                                   siemens power operations, inc., manila / philippines                                  100
      hong kong / hong kong                                                                      100        siemens, inc., manila / philippines                                                   100
      lms india engineering solutions pvt ltd, chennai / india                                   100        petnet solutions private limited, singapore / singapore                               100
      petnet radiopharmaceutical solutions pvt. ltd.,                                                       siemens industry software pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                            100
      new delhi / india                                                                          100        siemens medical instruments pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                          100
      powerplant performance improvement ltd., new delhi / india                                  50 1      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics pte. ltd.,
      preactor software india private limited, bangalore / india                                 100        singapore / singapore                                                                 100
      siemens convergence creators private limited, mumbai / india                               100        siemens pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                                              100
      siemens financial services private limited, mumbai / india                                 100        siemens rail automation pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                              100
      siemens hearing instruments pvt. ltd., bangalore / india                                   100        siemens industry software (tw) co., ltd., taipei / taiwan,
      siemens industry software (india) private limited,                                                    ­province of china                                                                    100
      new delhi / india                                                                          100        siemens ltd., taipei / taiwan, province of china                                      100
      siemens ltd., mumbai / india                                                                75        siemens limited, bangkok / thailand                                                    99
      siemens postal and parcel logistics technologies private                                              siemens ltd., ho chi minh city / viet nam                                             100
      ­limited, mumbai / india                                                                   100 8
      siemens postal parcel & airport logistics private limited,                                            associated companies and joint ventures
      ­mumbai / india                                                                            100        germany (30 companies)
      siemens rail automation pvt. ltd., bangalore / india                                       100        advanced power ag und siemens project ventures gmbh
      siemens technology and services private limited,                                                      in gbr, hamburg                                                                        50
      mumbai / india                                                                             100        ats projekt grevenbroich gmbh, schüttorf, schüttorf                                    25 9
      p.t. siemens indonesia, jakarta / indonesia                                                100        bellis gmbh, braunschweig                                                              49 9
      pt. siemens industrial power, kota bandung / indonesia                                      60        bsh bosch und siemens hausgeräte gmbh, munich                                          50
      siemens hearing instruments batam, pt, batam / indonesia                                   100        bwi informationstechnik gmbh, meckenheim                                               50 5
      acrorad co., ltd., okinawa / japan                                                          57        caterva gmbh, pullach i. isartal                                                       50
      best sound k.k., sagamihara / japan                                                        100        dks dienstleistungsgesellschaft f. kommunikationsanlagen
      siemens healthcare diagnostics k.k., tokyo / japan                                         100        des stadt- und regionalverkehrs mbh, cologne                                           49 9
      siemens hearing instruments k.k., tokyo / japan                                            100        emis electrics gmbh, lübbenau / spreewald                                              49
      siemens industry software k.k., tokyo / japan                                              100        feag fertigungscenter für elektrische anlagen gmbh, erlangen                           49 9
      siemens industry software simulation and test k.k.,                                                   hansaton akustik gmbh, hamburg                                                         50 9
      kanagawa / japan                                                                           100        iftec gmbh & co. kg, leipzig                                                           50
      siemens japan holding k.k., tokyo / japan                                                  100        infineon technologies bipolar gmbh & co. kg, warstein                                  40
      siemens japan k.k., tokyo / japan                                                          100        infineon technologies bipolar verwaltungs-gmbh, warstein                               40 9
      siemens energy solutions limited, seoul / korea, republic of                               100        innovative wind concepts gmbh, husum                                                   50
      siemens industry software ltd., seoul / korea, republic of                                 100        lib verwaltungs-gmbh, leipzig                                                          50 9


                 1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                 2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                    ­management personnel.
                                                                                                             8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
                 3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                             9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                    of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                            10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                 4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                            11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
                 5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




      108   a.       to our shareholders                                    131   b.    corporate ­governance                              171   c.     combined ­management report
326

                                                                                   equity interest                                                                                  equity interest
september 30, 2014                                                                            in %    september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
maschinenfabrik reinhausen gmbh, regensburg                                                 26        energie electrique de tahaddart s.a., tanger / morocco                                20
mevis breastcare gmbh & co. kg, bremen                                                      49        buitengaats c.v., amsterdam / netherlands                                             20 7
mevis breastcare verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh, bremen                                        49 9      buitengaats management b.v., eemshaven / netherlands                                  20 9
owp butendiek gmbh & co. kg, bremen                                                         23        infraspeed maintainance b.v., zoetermeer / netherlands                                46
power vermögensbeteiligungsgesellschaft mbh die erste,                                                unify holdings b.v., amsterdam / netherlands                                          49
hamburg                                                                                     50 9      ural locomotives holding besloten vennootschap,
ptz partikeltherapiezentrum kiel management gmbh,                                                     the hague / netherlands                                                               50
­wiesbaden                                                                                  50 9      zeeenergie c.v., amsterdam / netherlands                                              20 7
siemens venture capital fund 1 gmbh, munich                                                100 5, 9   zeeenergie management b.v., eemshaven / netherlands                                   20 9
siemens-electrogeräte gmbh, munich                                                         100 5, 9   voest-alpine technical services ltd., abuja / nigeria                                 40 9
siemens eurocash, munich                                                                      87      wirescan as, torp / norway                                                            33 9
siemens qualität & dividende europa, munich                                                   97      rousch (pakistan) power ltd., lahore / pakistan                                       26
symeo gmbh, neubiberg                                                                       65 5, 9   windfarm polska ii sp. z o.o., koszalin / poland                                      50 9
transrapid international verwaltungsgesellschaft                                                      ooo transconverter, moscow / russian federation                                       35 9
mbh i.l., berlin                                                                            50 9      ooo unipower transmission solutions, region moskau
ubimake gmbh, berlin                                                                        50        ­krasnogorsky district / russian federation                                           50
voith hydro holding gmbh & co. kg, heidenheim                                               35        ooo vis automation mit zusatz “ein gemeinschaftsunter­
voith hydro holding verwaltungs gmbh, heidenheim                                            35 9      nehmen von vis und siemens”, moscow / russian federation                              49
                                                                                                      zao interautomatika, moscow / russian federation                                      46
europe, commonwealth of independent states (c.i.s.),                                                  zao nuclearcontrol, moscow / russian federation                                       40 9
­africa, middle east (without germany) (61 companies)                                                 zao systema-service, st. petersburg / russian federation                              26
arelion gmbh, pasching b. linz / austria                                                    25 9      impilo consortium (pty.) ltd., la lucia / south africa                                31
aspern smart city research gmbh, vienna / austria                                           44 9      nertus mantenimiento ferroviario y servicios s.a.,
aspern smart city research gmbh & co kg, vienna / austria                                   44        barcelona / spain                                                                     51 5
e-mobility provider austria gmbh, vienna / austria                                          50   9
                                                                                                      soleval renovables s.l., sevilla / spain                                              50
e-mobility provider austria gmbh & co kg, vienna / austria                                  50        solucia renovables 1, s.l., lebrija / spain                                           50
oil and gas proserv llc, baku / azerbaijan                                                  25 9      termica afap s.a., villacanas / spain                                                 23 9
t-power nv, brussels / belgium                                                              20        certas ag, zurich / switzerland                                                       50
meomed s.r.o., prerov / czech republic                                                      47 9      interessengemeinschaft tus, männedorf / switzerland                                   50
a2sea a/s, fredericia / denmark                                                             49        breesea limited, london / united kingdom                                              50
noliac a/s, kvistgaard / denmark                                                            24 9      cross london trains holdco 2 limited,
compagnie electrique de bretagne, s.a.s., paris / france                                    40        london/united kingdom                                                                 33
trixell s.a.s., moirans / france                                                            25        ethos energy group limited, aberdeen / united kingdom                                 49
eviop-tempo a.e. electrical equipment manufacturers,                                                  heron wind limited, london / united kingdom                                           33
­vassiliko / greece                                                                         48        lincs renewable energy holdings limited,
metropolitan transportation solutions ltd.,                                                           london / united kingdom                                                               50
rosh haayin / israel                                                                        20 9      njord limited, london / united kingdom                                                33
transfima geie, milan / italy                                                               42 9      odos imaging ltd., edinburgh / united kingdom                                         50 9
transfima s.p.a., milan / italy                                                             49   9
                                                                                                      optimus wind limited, london / united kingdom                                         50
val 208 torino geie, milan / italy                                                          86 5, 9   plessey holdings ltd., frimley, surrey / united kingdom                               50 9
temir zhol electrification llp, astana / kazakhstan                                         49        pyreos limited, edinburgh / united kingdom                                            34 9
electrogas malta limited, st. julian’s / malta                                              20 9      sesmos limited, edinburgh / united kingdom                                            50 9
solutions & infrastructure services limited,                                                          smart wind limited, london / united kingdom                                           50
gzira / malta                                                                               50        smart wind spc 5 limited, london / united kingdom                                     50 9


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
              ­management personnel.
                                                                                                       8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                       9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
              of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                      11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
           5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




247   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      327
248   d.1      consolidated statements of income                      252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income       254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position         330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                         equity interest                                                                                    equity interest
      september 30, 2014                                                                            in %      september 30, 2014                                                                       in %
      smart wind spc 6 limited, london / united kingdom                                           50 9        fce (beijing) heat treatment technology co., ltd.,
      smart wind spc 7 limited, london / united kingdom                                           50 9        beijing / china                                                                       30 9
      smart wind spc 8 limited, london / united kingdom                                           50 9        gsp china technology co., ltd., beijing / china                                       50
                                                                                                              rose power transmission technology co., ltd,
      americas (10 companies)                                                                                 anshan / china                                                                        50

      cia técnica de engenheria eletrica sucursal argentina                                                   saitong railway electrification (nanjing) co., ltd.,
      va tech argentina s.a. union transitoria de empresas,                                                   nanjing / china                                                                       50 9
      buenos aires / argentina                                                                    30 9        shanghai electric power generation equipment co., ltd.,
      brockton power company llc, boston, ma / united states                                      23          shanghai / china                                                                      40
      brockton power holdings inc., boston, ma / united states                                    25 9        shanghai electric wind energy co., ltd., shanghai / china                             49
      brockton power properties, inc., boston, ma / united states                                 25 9        siemens traction equipment ltd., zhuzhou,
      cyclos semiconductor, inc., wilmington, de / united states                                  32          zhuzhou / china                                                                       50
      phsith llc, new castle, de / united states                                                  33          xi’an x-ray target ltd., xi’an / china                                                43
      power properties inc., boston, ma / united states                                           25 9        zhenjiang siemens busbar trunking systems co. ltd.,
      rether networks, inc., berkeley, ca / united states                                         30          ­yangzhong / china                                                                    50
      siemens first capital commercial finance, llc, oklahoma city,                                           bangalore international airport ltd., bangalore / india                               26
      ok / united states                                                                          51 5        transparent energy systems private limited,
      innovex capital en tecnologia, c.a., caracas / venezuela,                                               pune / india                                                                          25 9
      ­bolivarian republic of                                                                     20   7, 9
                                                                                                              p.t. jawa power, jakarta / indonesia                                                  50
                                                                                                              pt asia care indonesia, jakarta / indonesia                                           40
      asia, australia (24 companies)                                                                          kanto hochouki co., ltd., ibaragi / japan                                             25 9
      exemplar health (nbh) partnership, melbourne / australia                                    50          kikoeno soudanshitsu co., ltd., tochigi / japan                                       50 9
      exemplar health (scuh) partnership, sydney / australia                                      50          koden co., ltd., hiroshima / japan                                                    43 9
      magellan technology pty. ltd., annandale / australia                                        21 9        yaskawa siemens automation & drives corp.,
      chinainvent (shanghai) instrument co., ltd,                                                             kitakyushu / japan                                                                    50
      shanghai / china                                                                            30 9        power automation pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                                     49
      dbest (beijing) facility technology management co., ltd.,                                               modern engineering and consultants co. ltd.,
      ­beijing / china                                                                            25          bangkok / thailand                                                                    40 9


                 1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                               6 no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                 2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                    7 significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                    ­management personnel.
                                                                                                               8 not consolidated due to immateriality.
                 3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                               9 not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                    of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                              10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                 4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                              11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
                 5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.




      108   a.       to our shareholders                                    131   b.    corporate ­governance                                171   c.     combined ­management report
328

                                                                                                                                                               equity   net income                equity
                                                                                                                                                            ­interest in millions of      in millions of
september 30, 2014                                                                                                                                               in %              €                   €
other investments 13
germany (9 companies)
ausbildungszentrum für technik, informationsverarbeitung und wirtschaft gemeinnützige gmbh (atiw), paderborn                                               100 5, 6                  0               1
boma verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh & co. kg, grünwald                                                                                                        100 5, 6                  2            (42)
bsav kapitalbeteiligungen und vermögensverwaltungs management gmbh, grünwald                                                                               100 5, 6                  1             66
kyros beteiligungsverwaltung gmbh, grünwald                                                                                                                100 5, 6                  1             66
maena grundstücks-verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh & co. kg, grünwald                                                                                             97 5, 6                 3            (98)
osram licht ag, munich                                                                                                                                       20 6, 12               24         2,268
siemens global innovation partners i gmbh & co. kg, munich                                                                                                   50 6                    1             61
siemens pensionsfonds ag, grünwald                                                                                                                         100 5, 6                  0               8
sim 9. grundstücksverwaltungs- und -beteiligungs-gmbh, munich                                                                                              100 5, 6                  0               8


europe, commonwealth of independent states (c.i.s.), africa, middle east (without germany) (5 companies)
dils energie nv, hasselt / belgium                                                                                                                           50 6                   (1)             (1)
atos se, bezons / france                                                                                                                                     12                 260            2,939
medical systems s.p.a., genoa / italy                                                                                                                        45 6                    5             84
corporate xii s.a. (sicav-fis), luxembourg / luxembourg                                                                                                    100 5, 6                 88         6,800
siemens benefits scheme limited, frimley, surrey / united kingdom                                                                                            74 4, 6                 0               0


americas (2 companies)
ibahn corporation, south jordan, ut / united states                                                                                                            9                    (3)            34
longview intermediate holdings b, llc, wilmington, de / united states                                                                                          7                (36)             810


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             7   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2	control due to rights to appoint, reassign or remove members of the key                  8   not consolidated due to immateriality.
              ­management personnel.
                                                                                                       9   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
           3	control due to contractual arrangements to determine the direction
                                                                                                      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
              of the relevant activities.
                                                                                                      11 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.
           4   no control due to substantive removal or participation rights held by other parties.
                                                                                                      12 interests in the capital of 2.5 % are held by siemens pension trust e.v.
           5   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                                                                                                      13	values according to the latest available local gaap financial statements;
           6   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                                                                                                          the underlying fiscal year may differ from the siemens fiscal year.




247   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                      337   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                           329
248   d.1      consolidated statements of income                      252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income       254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position         330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

             d.7  supervisory board and managing board


      d.7.1 supervisory board

       gerhard cromme, dr. iur.            werner wenning                                  gerd von brandenstein                     hans michael gaul, dr. iur.
       chairman                            second deputy chairman                          supervisory board member                  supervisory board member
       chairman of the supervisory         chairman of the supervisory                     date of birth: april 6, 1942              date of birth: march 2, 1942
       board of siemens ag                 boards of bayer ag and e.on se                  member since: january 24, 2008            member since: january 24, 2008
       date of birth: february 25, 1943    date of birth: october 21, 1946                                                           external positions
       member since: january 23, 2003      member since: january 23, 2013                                                            german supervisory board
                                                                                           michael diekmann
                                           external positions                                                                        ­positions:
                                                                                           chairman of the board of
                                           german supervisory board                                                                   >> bdo ag wirtschaftsprüfungs­
       berthold huber*                                                                     ­management of allianz se
                                           ­positions:                                                                                   gesellschaft, hamburg
       first deputy chairman                                                               date of birth: december 23, 1954              (­deputy chairman)
                                            >> bayer ag, leverkusen
       president of industriall                                                            member since: january 24, 2008             >> hsbc trinkaus & burkhardt ag,
                                               (­chairman)
       ­global union                        >> e.on se, düsseldorf (chairman)              external positions                            düsseldorf
       date of birth: february 15, 1950     >> henkel ag & co. kgaa,                       german supervisory board
       member since: july 1, 2004              ­düsseldorf 1                               ­positions:
                                            >> henkel management ag,                                                                 peter gruss, prof. dr. rer. nat.
       external positions                                                                   >> allianz asset management ag,
                                                ­düsseldorf                                    munich (chairman)                     scientific member of the
       german supervisory board                                                                                                      max planck society
                                                                                            >> allianz deutschland ag, munich
       ­positions:
                                                                                            >> basf se, ludwigshafen am              date of birth: june 28, 1949
        >> audi ag, ingolstadt             lothar adler*                                       rhein (deputy chairman)               member since: january 24, 2008
           (deputy chairman)               (until may 31, 2014)                             >> linde ag, munich (deputy
        >> porsche automobil holding se,                                                                                             external positions
                                           supervisory board member                            chairman)
           stuttgart                                                                                                                 german supervisory board
                                           date of birth: february 22, 1949                 positions outside germany:
        >> volkswagen ag, wolfsburg                                                                                                  ­positions:
           (deputy chairman)               member since: january 23, 2003                   >> allianz france s.a., france
                                                                                                                                      >> münchener rückversicherungs-­
                                                                                               (deputy chairman)
                                                                                                                                         gesellschaft ­aktiengesellschaft
                                                                                            >> allianz s.p.a., italy
                                                                                                                                         in münchen, munich
                                           olaf bolduan*
                                                                                                                                      positions outside germany:
                                           (since july 11, 2014)
                                                                                                                                      >> actelion ltd., switzerland
                                           chairman of the works council
                                           of siemens dynamowerk,
                                           ­berlin, germany                                                                          bettina haller*
                                           date of birth: july 24, 1952                                                              chairwoman of the combine
                                           member since: july 11, 2014                                                               works council of siemens ag
                                                                                                                                     date of birth: march 14, 1959
                                                                                                                                     member since: april 1, 2007


                                                                                                                                     hans-jürgen hartung*
                                                                                                                                     chairman of the works council
                                                                                                                                     of siemens erlangen süd,
                                                                                                                                     ­germany
                                                                                                                                     date of birth: march 10, 1952
                                                                                                                                     member since: january 27, 2009




      108   a.   to our shareholders                   131   b.    corporate ­governance                           171   c.     combined ­management report
330

  robert kensbock*                               nicola leibinger-­                             güler sabancı                                jim hagemann snabe
  deputy chairman of the central                 kammüller, dr. phil.                           chairwoman and managing                      supervisory board member
  works council of siemens ag                    president and chairwoman of                    director of hacı ömer sabancı                date of birth: october 27, 1965
  date of birth: march 13, 1971                  the managing board of trumpf                   holding a.ş.                                 member since: october 1, 2013
  member since: january 23, 2013                 gmbh + co. kg                                  date of birth: august 14, 1955               external positions
                                                 date of birth: december 15, 1959               member since: january 23, 2013
                                                                                                                                             german supervisory board
                                                 member since: january 24, 2008
  harald kern*                                                                                                                               ­positions:
                                                 external positions                             rainer sieg, prof. dr. iur.*                  >> allianz se, munich
  chairman of the siemens europe
                                                 german supervisory board                       (until february 28, 2014)                     >> sap se, walldorf
  committee
                                                 ­positions:                                                                                  positions outside germany:
  date of birth: march 16, 1960                                                                 supervisory board member
                                                  >> axel springer se, berlin                                                                 >> bang & olufsen a / s, denmark
  member since: january 24, 2008                                                                date of birth: december 20, 1948
                                                  >> deutsche lufthansa ag,                                                                      (deputy chairman)
                                                     cologne                                    member since: january 24, 2008                >> danske bank a / s, denmark
                                                  >> voith gmbh, heidenheim
  jürgen kerner*
  executive managing board                                                                      michael sigmund*                             birgit steinborn*
  member of ig metall                            gérard mestrallet                              (since march 1, 2014)
                                                                                                                                             chairwoman of the central
  date of birth: january 22, 1969                chairman of the board and                      chairman of the committee of                 works council of siemens ag
  member since: january 25, 2012                 chief executive officer of                     spokespersons of the siemens
                                                                                                                                             date of birth: march 26, 1960
  external positions                             gdf suez s.a.                                  group; chairman of the central
                                                                                                                                             member since: january 24, 2008
                                                                                                ­committee of spokespersons
  german supervisory board                       date of birth: april 1, 1949
                                                                                                 of siemens ag
  ­positions:                                    member since: january 23, 2013
   >> airbus operations gmbh,                    external positions
                                                                                                date of birth: september 13, 1957            sibylle wankel*
                                                                                                member since: march 1, 2014
      ­hamburg                                   positions outside germany:                                                                  attorney, bavarian regional
   >> man se, munich                                                                                                                         headquarters of ig metall
                                                 >> compagnie de saint-gobain
      (deputy chairman)                                                                                                                      date of birth: march 3, 1964
                                                    s.a., france
   >> premium aerotec gmbh,                                                                                                                  member since: april 1, 2009
                                                 >> electrabel s.a., belgium
       ­augsburg (deputy chairman)
                                                    (­chairman)                                                                              external positions
                                                 >> gdf suez energy management
                                                                                                                                             german supervisory board
                                                    trading cvba, belgium
                                                                                                                                             ­positions:
                                                    (­chairman)
                                                 >> gdf suez energie services s.a.,                                                           >> audi ag, ingolstadt
                                                    france (chairman)                                                                         >> vaillant gmbh, remscheid
                                                 >> gdf suez rassembleurs
                                                    ­d’energies sas, france
                                                     (­chairman)
                                                 >> international power ltd., u.k.
                                                 >> sociedad general de aguas de
                                                     barcelona s.a., spain
                                                     (­deputy chairman)
                                                 >> suez environnement company
                                                     s.a., france (chairman)




   the supervisory board of siemens ag has 20 members. as stipulated by the german codetermination act
 (­ mitbestimmungsgesetz), half of the members represent company shareholders, and half represent company
  employees. the shareholder represen­tatives were elected at the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 23,
  ­2013 (or in a by-­election at the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 28, 2014). the employee representatives,
   whose names are marked with an asterisk (*), either were elected in accordance with the provisions of the german
codetermination ­act on september 25, 2012, effective as of the end of the annual shareholders’ meeting on
­january 23, 2013, or replaced an employee r­ epresentative, who had resigned / retired. the present supervisory board’s
term of office will expire at the conclusion of the annual shareholders’ meeting in 2018.


       1    shareholdersʼ committee.




as of september 30, 2014.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                 331
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.7.1.1 supervisory board committees
      the supervisory board of siemens ag has established seven
      standing committees. information on their activities in fiscal
      2014 is provided in      a.3 report of the supervisory board on

      pages 118 - 125 of this annual report.



      committees                         meetings in              duties and responsibilities                                                                        members as of
                                         fiscal 2014                                                                                                                 ­september 30, 2014



      chairman’s                           7                         the chairman’s committee makes proposals, in particular, regarding the                           gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
      ­committee                           1 decision                appointment and dismissal of managing board members and handles                                  (chairman)
                                           by notational             ­contracts with members of the managing board. in preparing recommen­                            berthold huber
                                           voting using               dations on the appointment of managing board members, the chairman’s                            birgit steinborn
                                           written                    committee takes into account the candidates’ professional qualifications,                       werner wenning
                                           ­circulations              international experience and leadership qualities, the age limit specified for
                                                                      managing board members, the managing board’s long-range plans for suc­
                                                                      cession as well as its diversity and, in particular, the appropriate consider­
                                                                      ation of women. the chairman’s committee concerns itself with questions
                                                                      regarding the company’s corporate governance and prepares the resolu­
                                                                     tions to be approved by the supervisory board regarding the declaration of
                                                                     conformity with the code ‒ including the explanation of deviations from
                                                                      the code ‒ and regarding the approval of the corporate governance report
                                                                      as well as the report of the supervisory board to the annual shareholders’
                                                                      meeting. furthermore, the chairman’s committee submits recommenda­
                                                                      tions to the supervisory board regarding the com­position of the supervisory
                                                                      board committees and decides whether to approve contracts and business
                                                                      transactions with managing board members and parties related to them.


      compensation                         6                         the compensation committee prepares, in particular, the proposals for                            werner wenning
      committee                                                      decisions by the supervisory board’s plenary meetings regarding the system                       (chairman)
                                                                     of managing board compensation, including the implementation of this                             gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
                                                                     system in the managing board contracts, the definition of the targets for                        michael diekmann
                                                                     variable managing board compensation, the determination and review                               berthold huber
                                                                     of the appropriateness of the total compensation of individual managing
                                                                                                                                                                      robert kensbock
                                                                     board members and the approval of the annual compensation report.
                                                                                                                                                                      birgit steinborn


      audit                                6                         the audit committee oversees, in particular, the accounting process and                          hans michael gaul,
      ­committee                                                     conducts a preliminary review of the annual financial statements of                              dr. iur. (chairman) 1
                                                                     siemens ag, the consolidated financial statements of the siemens group                           gerd von brandenstein
                                                                     and the combined management report. on the basis of the independent                              gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
                                                                     auditors’ report on their audit of the annual financial statements, the audit
                                                                                                                                                                      bettina haller
                                                                     committee makes, after its preliminary review, recommendations regard­
                                                                     ing supervisory board approval of the annual financial statements of                             robert kensbock
                                                                     siemens ag and the consolidated financial statements of the siemens                              jürgen kerner
                                                                     group. in addition to the work performed by the independent auditors, the                        jim hagemann snabe
                                                                     audit committee discusses the company’s quarterly financial statements                           birgit steinborn
                                                                     and half-year financial reports, which are prepared by the managing board,
                                                                     as well as the report on the auditors’ review of the quarterly financial state­
                                                                     ments and the half-year financial report (condensed financial statements
                                                                     and interim management report). it concerns itself with the company’s risk
                                                                     monitoring system and oversees the effectiveness of the internal control
                                                                     system as this relates, in particular, to financial reporting, the risk manage­
                                                                     ment system and the internal audit system. the audit committee receives
                                                                     regular reports from the internal audit department. it prepares the super­
                                                                     visory board’s recommendation to the annual shareholders’ meeting con­
                                                                     cerning the election of the independent auditors and submits the corre­
                                                                     sponding proposal to the supervisory board. it awards the audit contract to
                                                                     the independent auditors elected by the annual shareholders’ meeting and
                                                                     monitors the independent audit of the financial statements – including, in
                                                                     particular, the auditors’ independence, professional expertise and services.


                 1   fulfills the requirements of section 100 para. 5 and section 107 para. 4 of the german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz).


      108   a.       to our shareholders                                    131   b.    corporate ­governance                                  171   c.   combined ­management report
332

committees                    meetings in             duties and responsibilities                                                                 members as of
                              fiscal 2014                                                                                                         s
                                                                                                                                                  ­ eptember 30, 2014



compliance                      5                       the compliance committee concerns itself, in particular, with the com­                      gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
­committee                                              pany’s adherence to statutory provisions, official regulations and internal                 (chairman)
                                                        company policies.                                                                           gerd von brandenstein
                                                                                                                                                    hans michael gaul, dr. iur.
                                                                                                                                                    bettina haller
                                                                                                                                                    harald kern
                                                                                                                                                    jim hagemann snabe
                                                                                                                                                    birgit steinborn
                                                                                                                                                    sibylle wankel


innovation                      4                       based on the company ’s overall strategy, the innovation and finance                        gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
and finance                     1 decision              com­mittee discusses, in particular, the company ’s focuses of innovation                   (chairman)
committee                       by notational           and ­prepares the supervisory board’s discussions and resolutions regard­                   peter gruss, prof. dr. rer. nat.
                                voting using            ing questions relating to the company’s financial situation and structure ‒                 robert kensbock
                                written                 including annual planning (budget) ‒ as well as the company’s fixed asset                   harald kern
                                ­circulations           investments and its financial measures. in addition, the innovation and
                                                                                                                                                    jürgen kerner
                                                        finance committee has been authorized by the supervisory board to
                                                        decide on the approval of transactions and measures that require super­                     jim hagemann snabe
                                                        visory board approval and have a value of less than € 600 million.                          birgit steinborn
                                                                                                                                                    werner wenning


nominating                      1                       the nominating committee is responsible for making recommendations                          gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
committee                       1 decision              to the supervisory board on suitable candidates for election as shareholder                 (chairman)
                                by notational           representatives on the supervisory board by the annual shareholders’                        hans michael gaul, dr. iur.
                                voting using            meeting.                                                                                    nicola leibinger-­
                                written                                                                                                             kammüller, dr. phil.
                                ­circulations                                                                                                       werner wenning


mediation                       0                       the mediation committee submits proposals to the supervisory board in                       gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
­committee,                                             the event that the supervisory board cannot reach the two-thirds majority                   (chairman)
 ­under section                                         required for the appointment or dismissal of a managing board member.                       berthold huber
  27 para. 3 and                                                                                                                                    birgit steinborn
  ­section 31                                                                                                                                       werner wenning
   para. 3 and 5
   of the german
   codetermina-
   tion act




further information on corporate governance at siemens is available at
      www.siemens.de/corporate-governance




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                       333
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.7.2 managing board

       joe kaeser                           klaus helmrich                                 hermann requardt,                          peter y. solmssen
       president and chief executive        date of birth: may 24, 1958                    prof. dr. phil. nat.                       (until december 31, 2013)
       officer of siemens ag                first appointed: april 1, 2011                 date of birth: february 11, 1955           date of birth: january 24, 1955
       date of birth: june 23, 1957         term expires: march 31, 2016                   first appointed: may 1, 2006               first appointed: october 1, 2007
       first appointed: may 1, 2006         external positions                             term expires: march 31, 2016               term originally to have expired:
       term expires: july 31, 2018                                                                                                    march 31, 2017
                                            german supervisory board                       external positions
       external positions                   ­positions:                                    german supervisory board
       german supervisory board              >> eos holding ag, krailling                  ­positions:                                michael süß, dr. rer. pol.
       ­positions:                           >> inpro innovationsgesellschaft               >> software ag, darmstadt
                                                für fortgeschrittene produk­                                                          (until may 6, 2014)
        >> allianz deutschland ag, munich                                                   group company positions
        >> daimler ag, stuttgart                tionssysteme in der fahrzeug­                                                         date of birth: december 25, 1963
                                                industrie mbh, berlin                      positions outside germany:                 first appointed: april 1, 2011
        positions outside germany:
                                                                                           >> siemens japan holding k.k.,             term originally to have expired:
        >> nxp semiconductors b.v.,         group company positions
                                                                                              japan (chairman)                        march 31, 2016
           netherlands                      german supervisory board                       >> siemens japan k.k., japan
                                            ­positions:                                                                               external positions 2
       group company positions                                                                (chairman)
                                             >> bsh bosch und siemens                      >> siemens s.a., colombia                  german supervisory board
       positions outside germany:                                                                                                     ­positions:
                                                ­hausgeräte gmbh, munich                      (chairman)
       >> siemens ltd., india                                                                                                          >> herrenknecht ag, schwanau

                                            barbara kux                                    siegfried russwurm,
       roland busch, dr. rer. nat.                                                                                                    ralf p. thomas, dr. rer. pol.
                                            (until november 16, 2013)                      prof. dr.-ing.
       date of birth: november 22, 1964                                                                                               date of birth: march 7, 1961
                                            date of birth: february 26, 1954               date of birth: june 27, 1963
       first appointed: april 1, 2011                                                                                                 first appointed: september 18, 2013
                                            first appointed: november 17, 2008             first appointed: january 1, 2008
       term expires: march 31, 2016                                                                                                   term expires: september 17, 2018
                                            term expired: november 16, 2013                term expires: march 31, 2017
       external positions                                                                                                             group company positions
                                            external positions 1                           external positions
       german supervisory board                                                                                                       german supervisory board
                                            german supervisory board                       german supervisory board
       ­positions:                                                                                                                    ­positions:
                                            ­positions:                                    ­positions:
        >> osram licht ag, munich                                                                                                      >> bsh bosch und siemens
                                             >> henkel ag & co. kgaa,                       >> deutsche messe ag, hanover
           (deputy chairman)                                                                                                              ­hausgeräte gmbh, munich
                                                ­düsseldorf
        >> osram gmbh, munich                                                              group company positions                         (deputy chairman)
           (deputy chairman)                 positions outside germany:
                                                                                           german supervisory board                    positions outside germany:
       positions outside germany:            >> firmenich international sa,
                                                                                           ­positions:                                 >> siemens aktiengesellschaft
                                                switzerland
        >> atos se, france                                                                  >> bsh bosch und siemens                       österreich, austria
                                             >> total s.a., france
       group company positions                                                                 ­hausgeräte gmbh, munich                >> siemens corp., usa
       positions outside germany:                                                           positions outside germany:                     (­deputy chairman)
       >> siemens ltd., china (chairman)                                                    >> siemens ab, sweden
       >> siemens ltd., india                                                                   (chairman)
       >> siemens schweiz ag,                                                               >> siemens aktiengesellschaft
          ­switzerland (chairman)                                                               österreich, austria (chairman)
                                                                                            >> siemens holdings plc, u.k.
                                                                                                (chairman)
       lisa davis                                                                           >> siemens ltd., south africa
                                                                                                (chairman)
       date of birth: october 15, 1963                                                      >> siemens sanayi ve ticaret a.ş.,
       first appointed: august 1, 2014                                                          turkey
       term expires: july 31, 2019                                                          >> siemens vai metals
       external positions                                                                       ­technologies gmbh, austria
       positions outside germany:                                                           >> siemens w.l.l., qatar
       >> spectris plc, u.k.
       group company positions
       positions outside germany:
       >> siemens corp., usa
          (chairwoman)


             1   as of november 16, 2013.
             2   as of may 6, 2014.




      as of september 30, 2014.




      108   a.   to our shareholders                    131   b.   corporate ­governance                             171   c.    combined ­management report
334

d.7.2.1 managing board committees


committee                       meetings in           duties and responsibilities                                                                 members as of
                                fiscal 2014                                                                                                       ­ eptember 30, 2014
                                                                                                                                                  s



equity and                           6 decisions        the equity and employee stock committee oversees, in particular, the                        joe kaeser
­employee stock                      by notational      ­utilization of authorized capital in connection with the issuance of employee              (chairman)
 committee                           voting using       stock as well as the implementation of certain capital measures. it also                    klaus helmrich 1
                                     written            determines the scope and conditions of the share-based compensation                         siegfried russwurm,
                                     ­circulations      components and / or compensation programs for employees and managers                        prof. dr.-ing. 2
                                                         (with the exception of the managing board).                                                        ­ homas, dr. rer. pol.
                                                                                                                                                    ralf p. t


       1    until september 30, 2014.
       2    since october 1, 2014.




247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            337   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                     335
248   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  252   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
249   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   254   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
250   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     330   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
251   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      how have the company’s key business
      figures developed over the past five
      years? what are the key financial dates
      for the next twelve months? how
      is the company structured? all this
      information is available here.
       www.siemens.com/ar/additional-information




336

e.                 additional
                   information


338 e.1 responsibility statement


339 e.2 independent auditor’s report


341 e.3 statement of the managing board


342 e.4 company structure


344 e.5 five-year summary


345 e.6 notes and forward-­looking
        ­statements


346 e.7 further information and
        ­information resources


347 e.8 financial calendar




                                                e. additional information




                                          337

             e.1  responsibility statement


      to the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the appli-              report for siemens aktiengesellschaft, includes a fair review
      cable reporting principles, the consolidated financial state-                of the development and performance of the business and the
      ments give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial        ­position of the group, together with a description of the ma­
      position and profit or loss of the group, and the group manage-               terial opportunities and risks associated with the expected
      ment report, which has been combined with the management                      devel­opment of the group.

      munich, november 26, 2014

      siemens aktiengesellschaft
      the managing board




      joe kaeser




      dr. roland busch                                           lisa davis                                             klaus helmrich




      prof. dr. hermann requardt                                 prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                           dr. ralf p. thomas




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate governance                   171   c.   combined ­management report
338

       e.2  independent auditor’s report


to siemens aktiengesellschaft, berlin and munich                                ­ nd plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable a
                                                                                a                                                    ­ ssurance
                                                                                about whether the consolidated financial statements are free
report on the consolidated                                                      from material misstatement.
financial statements
we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial                         an audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit
statements of siemens aktiengesellschaft, berlin and munich,                    evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consoli-
and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated state-                    dated financial statements. the selection of audit procedures
ments of income, comprehensive income, financial position,                      depends on the auditor’s professional judgment. this includes
cash flow and changes in equity, and notes to the consolidated                  the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the
financial statements for the business year from october 1, 2013                 consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or
to september 30, 2014.                                                          ­error. in assessing those risks, the auditor considers the inter-
                                                                                 nal control system relevant to the entity ’s preparation of the
management’s responsibility for the                                              consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view.
­consolidated financial statements                                               the aim of this is to plan and perform audit procedures that are
the management of siemens aktiengesellschaft is responsible                      appropriate in the given circumstances, but not for the purpose
for the preparation of these consolidated financial statements.                  of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s
this responsibility includes preparing these consolidated finan-                 internal control system. an audit also includes evaluating the
cial statements in accordance with international financial                       appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reason-
­reporting standards (ifrs) as adopted by the european union                     ableness of accounting estimates made by management, as
 (eu), the supplementary requirements of german law pursuant                     well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated
 to sec. 315a (1) hgb [“handelsgesetzbuch“: german commer-                       financial statements.
 cial code] and full ifrs as issued by the international account-
 ing standards board (iasb), to give a true and fair view of the                we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffi-
 net assets, financial position and results of operations of the                cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
 group in accordance with these requirements. the company’s
 management is also responsible for the internal controls that                  audit opinion
 management determines are necessary to enable the prepa-                       pursuant to sec. 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we state that our audit
 ration of consolidated financial statements that are free from                 of the consolidated financial statements has not led to any
 ­material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.                         ­reservations.

auditor’s responsibility                                                        in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consol-
our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consoli-                   idated financial statements comply in all material respects
dated financial statements based on our audit. we conducted                     with ifrs as adopted by the eu, the supplementary require-
our audit in accordance with sec. 317 hgb and german gener-                     ments of german commercial law pursuant to sec. 315a (1)
ally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements                   hgb and full ifrs as issued by the iasb and give a true and
promulgated by the institut der wirtschaftsprüfer [institute of                 fair view of the net assets and financial position of the group
public auditors in germany] (idw) as well as in supplementary                   as at september 30, 2014 as well as the results of operations
compliance with international standards on auditing (isa).                      for the business year then ended, in accordance with these
­accordingly, we are required to comply with ethical requirements               requirements.




247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements   337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                  339
                                                338   e.1   responsibility statement                  344   e.5   five-year summary
                                                339   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report            345   e.6   notes and forward-­looking ­statements
                                                341   e.3   statement of the m­ anaging board         346   e.7   further information and information resources
                                                342   e.4   company structure                         347   e.8   financial calendar

      report on the group management report                                      pursuant to sec. 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we state that our audit
      we have audited the accompanying group management report,                  of the group management report has not led to any reservations.
      which is combined with the management report of siemens
      aktiengesellschaft, for the business year from october 1, 2013             in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit of the consoli­
      to september 30, 2014. the management of the company is                    dated financial statements and group management report, the
      ­
      responsible for the preparation of the group management                    group management report is consistent with the consolidated
      report in compliance with the applicable requirements of
      ­                                                                          financial statements, and as a whole provides a suitable view of
      ­german commercial law pursuant to sec. 315a (1) hgb. we are               the group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities
       required to conduct our audit in accordance with sec. 317 (2)             and risks of future development.
       hgb and german generally accepted standards for the audit of
       the group management report promulgated by the idw.                       munich, november 26, 2014
       ­accordingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of
        the group management report to obtain reasonable assurance               ernst & young gmbh
        about whether the group management report is consistent                  wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
        with the consolidated financial statements and the audit
        ­findings, and as a whole provides a suitable view of the group’s
         position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of
         future development.
                                                                                 spannagl 		                      prof. dr. hayn
                                                                                 wirtschaftsprüfer		              wirtschaftsprüfer
                                                                                 [german public auditor]          [german public auditor]




      108   a.   to our shareholders                131   b.   corporate governance                    171   c.   combined ­management report
340

       e.3  statement of the managing board


the managing board of siemens aktiengesellschaft is respon­                     siemens’ corporate headquarters and the effectiveness of the
sible for preparing the consolidated financial statements and                   related control systems. compliance with the guidelines as well
the group management report. the consolidated financial                         as the reliability and effectiveness of the control systems are
statements have been prepared in accordance with interna­                       continuously examined by internal corporate audit throughout
tional financial reporting standards (ifrs), as adopted by the                  the siemens group. our risk management system complies
european union as well as with the additional requirements set                  with the requirements of the german stock corporation act
forth in section 315a (1) of the german commercial code (han­                   (aktien­gesetz). our risk management system is designed to
delsgesetzbuch). the financial statements are also in accor­                    ­enable the managing board to recognize potential risks early
dance with ifrs as issued by the international accounting stan­                  on and initiate timely countermeasures.
dards board (iasb). the group management report is consistent
with the consolidated financial statements and is combined                      in accordance with the resolution adopted at the annual share­
with the management report of siemens aktiengesellschaft.                       holders’ meeting, ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungs­
                                                                                gesellschaft has audited the consolidated financial statements
siemens employs extensive internal controls, company-wide                       and group management report, which is combined with the
uniform reporting guidelines and additional measures, includ­                   management report of siemens aktiengesellschaft, and issued
ing employee training and continuing education, with the                        an unqualified opinion. together with the independent audi­
­intention that the consolidated financial statements and the                   tors, the supervisory board has thoroughly examined the
 group management report are conducted correctly and in                         ­consolidated financial statements, the group management
 ­accordance with the applicable legal requirements. members                     report, and the independent auditors’ report. the result of this
  of the management of the company units have confirmed to us                    examination is included in the report of the supervisory board
  the correctness of the financial data they have reported to                    ( a.3 of this annual report ).




munich, december 3, 2014

the managing board




joe kaeser




dr. roland busch                                            lisa davis                                                 klaus helmrich




prof. dr. hermann requardt                                  prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                               dr. ralf p. thomas




247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements   337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                  341
                                                338   e.1   responsibility statement                  344   e.5   five-year summary
                                                339   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report            345   e.6   notes and forward-­looking ­statements
                                                341   e.3   statement of the ­managing board          346   e.7   further information and information resources
                                                342   e.4   company structure                         347   e.8   financial calendar

             e.4  company structure


                 managing board                                               joe kaeser                    roland busch                                    lisa davis
                 of siemens ag                                                president and
                                                                              chief executive officer



                 corporate core                                       corporate ­development
                                                                      joe kaeser

                                                                      governance & markets
                                                                      mariel von schumann

                                                                      communications and
                                                                      government affairs
                                                                      stephan heimbach

                                                                      legal and compliance
                                                                      andreas christian hoffmann



                 corporate services



                 regions                                                                                asia, australia                             americas

                                                                                                        australia i jeffery connolly                brazil i paulo ricardo stark
                                                                                                        china i lothar herrmann                     canada i robert hardt
                                                                                                        india i sunil mathur                        colombia i daniel fernández
                                                                                                        indonesia i josef winter                    mexico i louise koopman goeser
                                                                                                        japan i junichi obata                       united states i eric spiegel
                                                                                                        republic of korea i jongkap kim
                                                                                                        singapore i armin bruck




                 divisions,                                                                             energy management                           power and gas
                 separately managed                                                                     ralf christian i jan mrosik                 roland fischer
                 business
                                                                                                        building technologies                       wind power
                                                                                                        matthias rebellius                          and renewables
                                                                                                                                                    markus tacke
                                                                                                        mobility
                                                                                                        jochen eickholt                             power generation
                                                                                                                                                    services
                                                                                                                                                    randy zwirn




             as of january 1, 2015.
             the members of the supervisory board are listed in
               d.7 supervisory board and managing board , pages 330 - 331.




      108   a.     to our shareholders                             131   b.    corporate governance                   171    c.    combined ­management report
342

     klaus helmrich                                    hermann requardt                           siegfried russwurm                                   ralf p. thomas
                                                                                                   labor director




                                                                                                 human resources                                 controlling and finance
                                                                                                 siegfried russwurm                              ralf p. thomas

                                                                                                 corporate technology
                                                                                                 siegfried russwurm




                                                                                                                                                 global services
                                                                                                                                                 hannes apitzsch



europe, africa                                                                                   commonwealth of
                                                                                                 independent states,
austria i wolfgang hesoun                                                                        middle east
belgium i andré bouffioux
czech republic i eduard palisek                                                                  russian federation i dietrich möller
france i christophe de maistre                                                                   saudi arabia i arja talakar
germany i rudolf martin siegers                                                                  united arab emirates i
italy i federico vilfredo golla                                                                  dietmar siersdorfer
netherlands i ab van der touw
poland i peter baudrexl
portugal i carlos melo ribeiro
south africa i sabine dall’omo
spain i rosa maría garcía
sweden i ulf troedsson
switzerland i siegfried gerlach
turkey i hüseyin gelis
united kingdom i jürgen maier



digital factory                                    healthcare                                                                                    financial services
anton sebastian huber                              hermann requardt                                                                              roland chalons-browne

process industries
and drives
peter herweck




      247   d.    consolidated ­financial statements              337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                           343
                                                                  338   e.1   responsibility statement                         344   e.5   five-year summary
                                                                  339   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report                   345   e.6   notes and forward-­looking ­statements
                                                                  341   e.3   statement of the m­ anaging board                346   e.7   further information and information resources
                                                                  342   e.4   company structure                                347   e.8   financial calendar

               e.5  five-year summary



       revenue and profit 1                                                                                                     fy 2014            fy 2013           fy 2012          fy 2011         fy 2010
       revenue                                                                                       in millions of €           71,920             73,445           74,734           69,607           65,067
       gross profit                                                                                  in millions of €           20,755             20,135           21,128           21,160           19,045
       income from continuing operations                                                             in millions of €            5,400              4,179            4,565             6,469            3,991
       net income                                                                                    in millions of €            5,507              4,409            4,282             5,899            3,881

       assets, liabilities and equity                                                                                           fy 2014            fy 2013           fy 2012          fy 2011         fy 2010
       current assets                                                                                in millions of €           48,076             46,937           52,128           52,540           50,179
       current liabilities                                                                           in millions of €           36,598             37,868           42,627           43,549           40,602
       debt                                                                                          in millions of €           20,947             20,453           20,707           17,940           19,913
            long-term debt                                                                           in millions of €           19,326             18,509           16,880           14,280           17,497
       net debt 2                                                                                    in millions of €           12,008             10,663            9,292            4,995             5,560
       post-employment benefits                                                                      in millions of €            9,324              9,265            9,801             7,188            8,342
       equity (including non-controlling interests)                                                  in millions of €           31,514             28,625           31,424           32,271           29,222
            as a percentage of total assets                                                                       in %               30                  28               29               31               28
       total assets                                                                                  in millions of €         104,879             101,936         108,251          104,210          102,791

       cash flows 1                                                                                                             fy 2014            fy 2013           fy 2012          fy 2011         fy 2010
       cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations                                  in millions of €            7,230              7,186            6,992            7,979             8,640
            amortization, depreciation and impairments 3                                             in millions of €            2,406              2,735            2,625            2,379             2,454
       cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations                                  in millions of €           (4,364)            (4,759)          (4,906)          (2,835)          (2,230)
        additions to intangible assets and property,
         plant and equipment                                                                         in millions of €           (1,831)            (1,808)          (2,121)          (2,091)           (1,859)
       cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations                                  in millions of €           (4,485)            (3,715)          (3,017)          (5,591)           (2,735)
       change in cash and cash equivalents                                                           in millions of €           (1,199)            (1,717)          (1,561)          (1,715)            4,023
       free cash flow – continuing and discontinued operations                                       in millions of €            5,201              5,328            4,700             5,282            7,109
       free cash flow – continuing operations                                                        in millions of €            5,399              5,378            4,871             5,889            6,781

       employees 1 – continuing operations                                                                                      fy 2014            fy 2013           fy 2012          fy 2011         fy 2010
       employees (september 30)                                                                        in thousands                 343                 348             352              341              316

       stock market information                                                                                                 fy 2014            fy 2013           fy 2012          fy 2011         fy 2010
       basic earnings per share – continuing and discontinued operations                                           in €            6.37                 5.08           4.74             6.55             4.28
       basic earnings per share – continuing operations 1                                                          in €            6.24                 4.81           5.06             7.19             4.41
       diluted earnings per share – continuing and discontinued operations                                         in €            6.31                 5.03           4.69             6.48             4.23
       diluted earnings per share – continuing operations 1                                                        in €            6.18                 4.76           5.01             7.12             4.37
       dividend per share                                                                                          in €            3.304                3.00           3.00             3.00             2.70
       siemens stock price (xetra closing price)
            high                                                                                                   in €         101.35              90.33            79.71             99.38            79.37
            low                                                                                                    in €          88.71              76.00            63.06             64.45            60.20
            fiscal year-end                                                                                        in €          94.37              89.06            77.61             68.12            77.43
       siemens stock price performance year-over-year
            compared to dax®                                                                             in %-points              (0.92)                3.67        (12.57)             2.17            15.53
            compared to msci world                                                                       in %-points              (2.89)                2.55          (3.01)           (5.16)           18.53
       number of shares issued (september 30)                                                              in millions              881                 881             881              914              914
       market capitalization 5                                                                       in millions of €           78,823             75,078           66,455           59,554           67,351
       credit rating of long-term debt
            standard & poor’s ratings services                                                                                       a+                  a+              a+                a+               a+
            moody’s investors service                                                                                               aa3                 aa3             aa3                a1               a1


              1 regarding activities classified as discontinued operations,          comprises cash and cash equivalents as well as available-          amortization and impairments of intangible assets, net
                 prior years are presented on a comparable basis.                     for-sale financial assets (current).                               of reversals of impairment.
              2 net debt results from total debt less total liquidity. total    3 amortization, depreciation and impairments includes             4 to be proposed to the annual shareholders’ meeting.
                 debt comprises short-term debt and current maturities of           depreciation and impairments of property, plant and
                                                                                                                                                    5 on the basis of outstanding shares.
                 long-term debt as well as long-term debt. total liquidity          equipment, net of reversals of impairments as well as




      108    a.    to our shareholders                                     131   b.      corporate governance                                     171    c.    combined ­management report
344

       e.6  notes and forward-looking statements


this document contains statements related to our future busi-                   this document includes – in ifrs not clearly defined – supple-
ness and financial performance and future events or develop-                    mental financial measures that are or may be non-gaap finan-
ments involving siemens that may constitute forward-looking                     cial measures. these supplemental financial measures should
statements. these statements may be identified by words such                    not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of
as “expect,” “look forward to,” “anticipate” “intend,” “plan,”                  siemens’ net assets and financial positions or results of opera-
­“believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project” or words of similar           tions as presented in accordance with ifrs in its consolidated
 meaning. we may also make forward-looking statements in                        financial statements. other companies that report or describe
 other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to share-               similarly titled financial measures may calculate them differ-
 holders and in press releases. in addition, our representatives                ently.
 may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements.
 such statements are based on the current expectations and                      due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other
 certain assumptions of siemens’ management, of which many                      documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and
 are beyond siemens’ control. these are subject to a number of                  percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.
 risks, uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited to
 those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter risks             this document is an english language translation of the
 in this annual report. should one or more of these risks or                    ­
                                                                                german document. in case of discrepancies, the german
 ­uncertainties materialize, or should underlying expectations                  ­language document is the sole authoritative and universally
  not occur or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, per­                 valid version.
  formance or achievements of siemens may (negatively or
  ­positively) vary materially from those described explicitly or               for technical reasons, there may be differences between the
   implicitly in the relevant forward-looking statement. siemens                accounting records appearing in this document and those
   neither intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or                    ­published pursuant to legal requirements.
   ­revise these forward-looking statements in light of develop-
    ments which ­differ from those anticipated.




247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements   337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                 345
                                                338   e.1   responsibility statement                 344   e.5   five-year summary
                                                339   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report           345   e.6   notes and forward-­looking ­statements
                                                341   e.3   statement of the m­ anaging board        346   e.7   further information and information resources
                                                342   e.4   company structure                        347   e.8   financial calendar

              e.7  further information and information resources


      further information on the contents                                          copies of the annual report can be ordered at:
      of this annual report is available from:                                     e-mail      siemens@bek-gmbh.de
      address	siemens ag                                                          fax         + 49 7237 - 1736
                  wittelsbacherplatz 2                                             internet       www.siemens.com/order-annualreport

                  80333 munich
                  germany
                                                                                   siemens employees may obtain copies at:
      phone           + 49 89 636 - 33443 (media relations)                        intranet    
                                                                                               h t tps://intranet.siemens.com/

                      + 49 89 636 - 32474 (investor relations)                                   order-annualreport

      fax             + 49 89 636 - 30085 (media relations)                        english    order no. ar2014-e
                      + 49 89 636 - 32830 (investor relations)                     german     order no. jb2014-d
      e-mail          press@siemens.com
                      investorrelations@siemens.com                                employees should include their postal address and ­complete
                                                                                   order data (org-id and cost center information) when ordering.

      additional information
      the siemens annual report for 2014 is available online at:                   concept and coordination
            www.siemens.com/annual-report                                          communications and government affairs
                                                                                   dr. johannes von karczewski
                                                                                   annette häfelinger
      combined reporting
      the annual report combines our annual and sustainability                     controlling and finance
      reporting to provide an integrated overview of our company ’s                dr. marcus mayer
      key topics. further information on our commitment to
      ­sustainability and additional sustainability-related indicators
       are available at:                                                           layout / production
            www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y                                        hw.design gmbh
            www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y-figures



      in addition to our annual report at the end of each fiscal year,             copyright notice
      we publish quarterly consolidated financial statements in the                designations used in this document may be trademarks,
      form of press releases. conference calls and press conferences               the use of which by third parties for their own purposes
      supplement these publications, giving journalists and analysts               could violate the rights of the trademark owners.
      further opportunities to review developments in our businesses.
      financial reporting for the first three quarters is complemented
      by interim reports and shareholder letters for private investors,            ecofriendly production
      in particular. all these financial reports are available at:                 this annual report has been produced using chlorine-free
            www.siemens.com/financial-reports                                      bleached materials and climate-neutral production processes.
                                                                                   in accordance with the guidelines of the forest stewardship
      further information on research, development                                 council (fsc), all the paper used in this annual report comes
      and innovation at siemens is available at:                                   from controlled sources such as sustainable forests. the mill
            www.siemens.com/innovation                                             in which the paper was produced is certified in accordance
                                                                                   with iso 9001, 14001 and 18001 guidelines. it uses only
      the siemens publication pictures of the future:                              ­chlorine-free bleached pulps (ecf), which are subsequently
      the magazine for research and innovation is available at:                     processed without the use of elemental chlorine.
            www.siemens.com/pof



                                                                                   © 2014 by siemens ag, berlin and munich




      108   a.   to our shareholders                  131   b.   corporate governance                    171   c.   combined ­management report
346

       e.8  financial calendar 1




           27             first-quarter
                          financial report
      january
         2015
                                                                                                             12          preliminary figures
                                                                                                                         for fiscal 2015
                                                                                                       november
                          annual shareholders’                                                             2015
                          meeting for fiscal 2014




                                                              7         second-quarter
                                                                        financial report
                                                             may
                                                             2015




                        28               ex-dividend date


                    january                                                                                              26            annual shareholders’
                                                                                                                                       meeting for fiscal 2015
                       2015                                                                                        january
                                                                                                                      2016




                                                                          30              third-quarter
                                                                                          financial report
                                                                             july
                                                                             2015




       1 provisional. updates will be published at:
             www.siemens.com/financial-calendar




247   d.   consolidated ­financial statements          337   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                         347
                                                       338   e.1   responsibility statement                  344   e.5   five-year summary
                                                       339   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report            345   e.6   notes and forward-­looking ­statements
                                                       341   e.3   statement of the m­ anaging board         346   e.7   further information and information resources
                                                       342   e.4   company structure                         347   e.8   financial calendar

                             order no. ar2014-e




siemens.com /annual-report
