                                                          energy efficiency


                            next-generation healthcare




                                     industrial productivity




                     intelligent infrastructure solutions




thinking for the long term
providing answers
annual report 2013




                                                                         siemens.com

                               energy efficiency




                            next-generation healthcare


              industrial productivity




                          intelligent infrastructure solutions




siemens at a glance
fiscal 2013




                                                                 siemens.com

company report 2013




          living our visions
              achieving our goals

    living our visions
            achieving our goals




                                             rus         kirishi, russia        energy solutions         pages 4 - 21



                                                                                            how do you convert an aging power station into one
                                                                                            of the most efficient combined cycle power plants in
                                                                                            russia? how can you produce energy more efficiently
                                                                                            while protecting the climate? kirill gamburger and
                                                                                            denis bashuk report on a project that has implications
                                                          kirishi                           for power generation far beyond russia’s borders.
                                                                                               www.siemens.com/ar/report-energy




                                                  generating power more efficiently
                          protecting the environment




    a single report
        an integrated approach
     welcome to siemens’ annual report for 2013. this year, we’ve combined our
     ­previously separate annual and sustainability reports to provide an integrated
      overview of our company ’s key topics. we trust you’ll find it interesting and
    ­informative. and don’t miss the related website, which includes a wide range of
     impressive video and picture material as well as links to further information.
        www.siemens.com/annual-report




                   enhancing industrial productivity

                                  creating efficient solutions




                           usa            york harbor, u.s.      industry solutions         pages 40 - 59



                                                              what are the challenges facing people who need joint replacements?
                                                              what role can industry software play in producing prosthetics? and
                                                              what does the future hold for developments in this area? three ques-
                                        york ­harbor                           ­ ifferent perspectives: gordon france, sabine fietz
                                                              tions from three d
                                                              and ­professor berend denkena provide answers and offer insights into
                                                              an important topic for today and tomorrow.
                                                                 www.siemens.com/ar/report-industry




2

          ind           gurgaon, new delhi, india            healthcare solutions          pages 22 - 39



                                                   how can the medical challenges facing the indian subcontinent
                                                   be mastered? how can access to affordable healthcare be
                                                   expanded? and how can advanced medical technologies help
                                                   make it all happen? dr. naresh trehan, founder of “medanta –
                            gurgaon                the medicity,” and heart surgeon dr. namrata gaur have been
                                                   addressing these questions for years. to make high-quality
                                                   healthcare services affordable for as many people as possible –
                                                   that’s their aspiration.
                                                       www.siemens.com/ar/report-healthcare




                 providing high-quality medical technology
improving healthcare


                                                                                                     making visions a reality
                                                                                             targeting actions




                  making infrastructures more intelligent
 enhancing quality of life




aut      vienna, austria      infrastructure solutions           pages 60 - 79



                        what makes an already very livable city even more l­ivable?
                        how are intelligent infrastructure solutions improving
        vienna          the quality of urban life? and what makes these solutions
                        intelligent in the first place? mayor michael häupl and          corporate strategy           pages 80 - 85
                        the freimüller-köhler family talk about their hometown of
                        vienna – one of the most ­livable cities in the world.
                           www.siemens.com/ar/report-ic
                                                                                         how can we create sustainable value? what
                                                                                         are ­our goals? and how do we measure the
                                                                                         ­success of our business activities? to find
                                                                                          out, take a look at our strategy report, which
                                                                                          ­provides an overview of the principles that
                                                                                           are ­guiding our actions and helping us achieve
                                                                                           our aim of ­creating sustainable value.
                                                                                            www.siemens.com/ar/strategy




                                                                                                                                             3

generating power more efficiently
               protecting the environment




4

 acting responsibly

“how can we
 better protect
 our environment
 with new
 technologies?”
 kirill gamburger – siemens engineer – st. petersburg, russia
 i love being an engineer, and i’m very passionate about my work. i guess you
 could say engineering runs in my family. my grandfather was an engineer, and
 both my mother and my father are engineers. so our family lives and breathes
 the profession. while studying in st. petersburg and finland, i learned how
 technology enables us to meet the major challenges of our time. at siemens,
 i’m now drawing on this experience. as the engineer responsible for servicing
 and maintaining the upgraded unit at the kirishi combined cycle power plant,
 i’m helping drive ecofriendly power generation in russia.




 rus            kirishi   59 ° 27 ' n, 32 ° 1 ' e   population: about 53,000




          kirishi


                                                                                 7

generating power more efficiently
               protecting the environment
                                             leveraging business opportunities

                                            “how can we
                                             generate more
                                             electricity with
                                             less natural gas?”
                                             denis bashuk – general manager of ogk-2 – moscow, russia
                                             as one of the largest energy utilities in russia, ogk-2 currently generates about
                                             8% of the country’s electrical power. to meet the continually growing demand
                                             for electricity, we’re not only building new power plants but also upgrading
                                             many of our older steam-driven facilities, which date back to the days of the
                                             soviet union. as chief engineer at the kirishi power plant, i personally super-
                                             vised the plant’s modernization, and as general manager of the company that
                                             operates it, i’m now seeing the results. what’s my conclusion? siemens’ high-
                                             efficiency combined cycle power plant technology is a winner.




4

7

    efficient power production for russia

“i must admit i feel
 quite proud when
 the lights come on
 in st. petersburg.”
    siemensʼ energy solutions    power plant modernization




    kirishi, russia

    there are some cities whose magic truly
    comes alive at night – and st. petersburg is
    certainly one of them. whether in summer,
    when the city stays light for up to 20 hours
    a day during the famous “white nights,” or
    in winter, when the former czarist capital is
    covered in snow and its historic buildings
    are spectacularly illuminated, residents and
    tourists alike are enchanted by nighttime in
    st. petersburg – a city of more than a mil-
    lion inhabitants and the world’s northern-
    most metropolis. kirill gamburger has
    good reason to be proud of st. petersburg’s
    nocturnal charm because he’s one of the
    people who helps ensure that its hand-
    some avenues are brightly lit: “when the
    lights come on, i know that my power plant
    in kirishi is operating smoothly at full load.”
    the 27-year-old siemens engineer is re-
    sponsible for maintaining and servicing
    two gas turbines, two generators and the
    automatic control system at the power
    plant in kirishi, a town about 170 kilome-
    ters southeast of st. petersburg. the facility
    supplies electricity to residents and busi-
    nesses across northwestern russia. “i’m re-
    sponsible for unit 6, which is russia’s big-
    gest combined cycle power plant,” explains
    gamburger. originally built during the so-
    viet era as a steam power plant, the facility
    has now been upgraded by siemens.




8

                                        generating power more efficiently
                                                       protecting the environment




             2

    1


1 – siemens engineer and project
manager kirill gamburger enjoys
living and working in st. petersburg,
where he also completed his uni-
versity studies in engineering.

2 – view of st. petersburg at night,
from st. isaac’s cathedral. in the
summer, the city stays light very
late, and street lighting is required
for only a few hours before the sun                                                 9
rises again.

10

                                                                                           generating power more efficiently
     1                                                                                                     protecting the environment
               2


1 – the turbine hall of unit 6 at the
                                        siemens project manager kirill gamburger          o
                                                                                          ­ peration for anywhere from 32 to 50 years,
kirishi power plant is enormous.
siemens engineer andrey lukashkin       is responsible for ensuring that the up-          and another 22% were commissioned over
(right) is on site five days a week,    graded unit 6 at the kirishi power plant          50 years ago. in view of the low efficiency
working with plant employees to
                                        operates smoothly. the engineering pro-           of many of these plants, russia is investing
monitor the system.
                                        fession runs in the blood of this passionate      heavily to expand its power-generating
2 – once a month, kirill gamburger      engineer. gamburger, who also devotes his         ­capacity.
(left) travels from st. petersburg
to kirishi to consult personally with
                                        free time to technology-related pursuits, is
his siemens colleague andrey            descended from three engineers – follow-          but supply bottlenecks cannot be elimi­nat­
lukashkin, who works at the plant.      ing in the footsteps of not only his mother       ­ed simply by building new power plants.
                                        and father but of his grandfather as well.         the only way to ensure that businesses and
                                        and he’s not the only family member to up­         residents have ample, reliable supplies of
                                        hold the tradition: his brothers also studied      power is to boost the efficiency of existing
                                        engineering in st. petersburg. at siemens,         plants as well. russia currently generates
                                        gamburger can put his skills to the test:          most of its electricity at aging steam power
                                        “i’m primarily responsible for long-term           plants. our upgrade at kirishi impressively
                                        service agreements that run for six to             demonstrates how the peak output and
                                        twelve years – or 50% to 100% of a gas             energy efficiency of existing facilities can
                                        ­turbine’s entire lifecycle. i organize the de-    be dramatically improved.
                                         livery of replacement parts, recruit employ-
                                         ees, prepare work plans and schedules,           energy-efficient and
                                         and coordinate all these processes in con-       ­environ­mentally friendly
                                         sultation with the plant staff.” gamburger        a failure at kirishi’s unit 6 would have neg-
                                         will remain in charge of kirishi’s repowered      ative consequences for the power supply
                                         unit 6 throughout its lifecycle since plant       in st. petersburg and across the northwest-
                                         operator ogk-2 and siemens have signed a          ern region of russia. as project manager,
                                         service agreement for the gas turbines and        kirill gamburger has a great deal of re-
                                         generators that extends from 2013 to 2025.        sponsibility for the power plant’s availabil-
                                                                                           ity and performance. he also keeps a close
                                        the growing energy needs                           eye on operating costs for his customer:
                                        of a vibrant region                                “we’re now making better use of valuable
                                        russia’s huge reserves of natural gas and          natural gas, and our customer is benefit-
                                        petroleum are extremely important for the          ing from substantial cost savings. just con-
                                        country’s economy and its roughly 143 mil-         sider the comparison: the efficiency of the
                                        lion inhabitants as well as for meeting the        old units was 38%, while the new units are
                                        energy needs of europe and asia. as one of         reaching 55%. that means we need one-
                                        the world’s largest electricity producers,         third less natural gas to generate the same
                                        russia is facing new challenges. according         amount of electricity.” and this increased
                                        to ­russian government forecasts, demand           efficiency also benefits the environment:
                                        for electricity will increase 50% by 2030.         “one-third less natural gas per kilo-
                                        the problem is that many of the country’s          watt-hour of electricity means one-third
                                        power plants are outdated. according to            fewer emissions of climate-damaging
                                        russia’s ministry of energy, half the coun-        ­carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour,” notes
                                        try’s steam power plants have been in               gamburger.       page 21




              increase in capacity                   500 mw
              the modernization of unit 6 at the
              kirishi power plant nearly tripled
              the unit’s installed capacity, from
              about 300 to 800 megawatts.
                                                                                                                                           11

     lots of electricity from
     hot exhaust gases
     the retrofitted unit 6 at the kirishi facility   via a shaft to a generator, which produces
     is a state-of-the-art combined cycle power       electricity. when emitted, the turbine’s ex-
     plant of the kind that siemens has installed     haust gases have a temperature of be-
     in many parts of the world over the last few     tween 500°c and 600°c. at kirishi, these
     years. our advanced techno­logy enables          gases no longer go unused but are har-
     the highly efficient use of fuel (natural gas    nessed to produce steam, which is then
     in kirishi’s case). when the fuel is burned,     used to generate additional energy. thanks
     thermal energy is converted into mechani-        to this technology, combined cycle power
     cal energy, which drives a gas turbine – as in   plants are the most efficient type of con-
     a jet engine. the gas turbine is connected       ventional power plant.




     efficiency                                                 55%
     prior to the upgrade, unit 6 achieved an efficiency of 38%.
     thanks to our innovative systems, 55% of the energy contained
     in the natural gas used to drive the unitʼs turbines is now being
     converted into electrical energy.




                                                                                            more than

                                                           two gas turbines                 300 turbines
                                                           we’ve sold more than 300 of our sgt5-4000f turbines worldwide.
                                                           in addition to the turbines’ high output, customers value their low
                                                           emissions and efficient fuel use.



12

                                                                        generating power more efficiently
                                                                                       protecting the environment




   reduction in
   gas consumption               104 g/ kwh
   unit 6 now needs exactly 220 grams of natural gas to generate
   one kilowatt-hour of electricity. prior to the upgrade, 324 grams
   were required to generate the same amount.




                                         two generators                     640 mw
                                         the culmination of our many years of experience in producing
                                         generators, each of the two sgen5-1000a generators that we
                                         installed at kirishi has a capacity of 320 megawatts.




control system                             24 hours
extremely reliable and easy to operate, our advanced control system
at kirishi facilitates everyday processes. all employees – from shift
supervisors to service engineers – can perform their work from nearly
any location in the plant, around the clock.                                                                        13

generating power more efficiently
                                                                                                     1
               protecting the environment
                                                                                                            2


                                                                                                  1 – during a visit to kirishi,
                                                                                                  denis bashuk, the general
                                                                                                  manager of power plant operator
                                                                                                  ogk-2, surveys the entire plant
                                                                                                  from the meeting room.

                                                                                                  2 – the kirishi power plant
                                                                                                  was built in the mid-1960s.
                                                                                                  unit 6, pictured here, was
                                                                                                  ­commissioned in the early
                                                                                                   1970s as a conventional steam
                                                                                                   power plant. the unit was
                                                                                                   upgraded and expanded
                                                                                                   by siemens in 2012.




                                    “we can now dispense with the use of
                                     environmentally harmful heavy oil.”
                                    denis bashuk is the general manager of the russian energy
                                    utility ogk-2. before assuming this position, he was chief
                                    engineer at the kirishi power plant, where he headed one of
                                    russia’s largest projects to upgrade and boost the efficiency
                                    of a conventional steam power plant. bashuk’s positive
                                    ­experience working with siemens convinced him to rely
                                     on us for servicing kirishi and for retrofitting other plants
                                     with our technologies.

                                    the updated unit 6 at kirishi has been in regular service
                                    since 2012. have your expectations been fulfilled ?
                                    denis bashuk : this interview has given me a good reason to come back to
                                    ­ irishi from our moscow headquarters and see for myself how well unit 6 is
                                    k
                                    performing. as chief engineer at kirishi, i oversaw the unit’s modernization
                                    from 2005 to 2008. at that time, i was very anxious to see if all the ambitious
                                    target parameters could be fulfilled. and siemens kept its word. the new tur-
                                    bine unit, which has a capacity of 800 megawatts, has increased our efficiency



14

strategic context                                          in generating electricity from natural gas from the earlier level of 38% to 55%
                                                           today. as a result, we now need one-third less natural gas to produce the
                                                           same amount of electricity.

our answers to the                                         why did ogk-2 choose siemens as its partner for this project ?

challenges of climate                                      denis bashuk : we first started thinking about repowering the turbine unit
                                                 around 2004. there were various technical possibilities, and several companies


change
                                                 submitted interesting offers for turnkey solutions. one argument in favor of
                                                 siemens was that its gas turbines fit in perfectly with our modernization
                                                 concept. a high degree of operational reliability was also important to us, and
                                                 we were impressed with siemens’ very good references in this respect. in
                                                 previous years, siemens had built more than a hundred similar turbines,
     worldwide power generation (in terawatt-hours)
                                                 which were consistently praised by their operators.


                                                           you trust us so much that ogk-2 has commissioned
                                                           siemens to service unit 6 until 2025.
                                                     36,600
                                                           denis bashuk : yes, that’s in line with our philosophy. we prefer it when the
                           + 13,800
                                                           original manufacturer takes responsibility for maintaining and servicing its
                                                           systems. renewables
         22,800
                                                                               1
                                                                     our contract with siemens is for twelve years, and we’re confident
                                                                    hydro have any problems with service and maintenance during this
                                                           that we won’t
                                                           time.    nuclear

                                                                    gas
                                                           what impact is the upgrade of unit 6 having on the
                                                                 oil
                                                           environment ?
                                                                    coal
                                                           denis bashuk : a very positive one! since the power plant now utilizes natural
                                                           gas much more efficiently than before, we’ve substantially lowered our emis-
              2012                                       2030
                                                           sions of carbon dioxide and nitric oxide. what’s more, we no longer need to
                                                           burn heavy oil as well in order to generate electricity. unfortunately, that used
     1   excluding hydro                                   to be the case, particularly during peak load times in the autumn and winter. in
     source: siemens                                       the winter of 2012/2013, just a few months after the upgrade was completed,
                                                           we were able to dispense with the use of heavy oil for the first time ever.

how will we generate the power we’ll need in the future?as   this
                                                                the is general manager of a major power plant operator
a pressing question for many countries today, even though the
                                                           in russia, how do you see the sustainable energy mix of
challenges vary from place to place. while the demand for elec-
                                                           the future ?
tricity is soaring in the world’s emerging markets, cost-efficiency
and, in some cases, climate protection are the primary concerns    in
                                                           denis bashuk  : to achieve a sustainable energy mix in the european part of our
the industrialized countries. a wide range of diverse measures   will we need to keep improving our efficiency in burning fossil fuels. the
                                                           country,
be required to meet all these challenges. energy systemsbestaroundway to do that is to convert our older steam power plants into advanced
                                                           energy- cycle power plants. we’ve only recently begun to use this technol-
the world are becoming much more complex. the linear combined
conversion chain of the past is evolving into a complexogy   power
                                                                 in russia. new and upgraded combined cycle power plants are also my
matrix comprising many different producers and consumers.  preferred solution for meeting the growing demand for electricity in russia
                                                            while minimizing the consumption of primary energy.
we’re ideally positioned to master these challenges. our portfolio
encompasses energy-saving products, solutions and services in the
                                                            what is ogk-2 planning in this regard ?
fields of resource-conserving and climate-friendly power genera-
                                                            denis bashuk : we’re truly impressed with the results of siemens’ upgrade of
tion, low-loss power transmission and intelligent power distribution
via smart grids.                                            unit 6 at kirishi. at the moment, ogk-2 is building two new units, at the
                                                            cherepovets and serov power plants, using combined cycle turbines from
                                                            siemens for both projects. and the construction of a third unit is in the
                                                            planning phase.




                                                                                 15                                                            19

generating power more efficiently                            balanced energy mix
                                                                                                                                 1
               protecting the environment
                                                                                                                                       2
                                                             generating power while                                         1 – during a visit to kirishi,
                                                             minimizing resource use                                        denis bashuk, the general
                                                                                                                            manager of power plant operator

                                                             and environmental impact                                       ogk-2, surveys the entire plant
                                                                                                                            from the meeting room.

                                                                                                 2 – the kirishi power plant
                                                                                                 was built in the mid-1960s.
                                                                                                 unit 6, pictured here, was
                                                                                                 commissioned in the early
                                                                                                 1970s as a conventional steam
                                                                     expected increase in capacity
                                                                                                 power plant. the unit was
                                                                                                   – 2030 and
                                                                     from new power plants, 2013upgraded     (in gigawatts)
                                                                                                                 expanded
                                                                                                 by siemens in 2012.




                                                             china                                                                                                1,584
                                                                            13%                   31%               6%     12%             29%     9%


                                                                            2%    5%


                                                             eu                                                                      813
                                                                       14% 5%      2%             49%              23%


                                                                                   8% 2%


                                                             usa                                                             697
                                                                            36%         1%        25%        26%
                                                                                             2%

                                                                        1%                    5%       13%


                                                             india                                                          671
                                                                       9%         44%             8%         20%




                                    “we can now dispense with the use of
                                                                     combined cycle          simple cycle          steam     nuclear       hydro   wind & solar    other

                                     environmentally harmful heavy oil.”
                                                                     source: siemens




                                    denis bashuk is thethe   future of
                                                          general       power generation
                                                                      manager                 will depend
                                                                                    of the russian          on achieving a bal-
                                                                                                       energy
                                                        anced energy mix. one key focus will be to expand the use of
                                    utility ogk-2. before assuming this position, he was chief
                                                        renewables. as the leading provider of offshore wind turbines,
                                                        we’repower
                                    engineer at the kirishi    playingplant,    where
                                                                        a vital role        forheaded
                                                                                      here.he    example,one
                                                                                                           we of
                                                                                                               built the world’s
                                                        largest to
                                    russia’s largest projects              wind and
                                                                     upgrade
                                                                offshore          farm,boost    the efficiency
                                                                                        the london   array, off the coast of the
                                                        uk. thepower
                                    of a conventional steam                 plant.
                                                                   installation’s  175bashuk’s
                                                                                       turbines arepositive
                                                                                                     now generating enough
                                                        power to supply about 500,000 british households with green
                                    experience working with siemens convinced him to rely
                                                        electricity.
                                    on us for servicing kirishi and for retrofitting other plants
                                    with our technologies.
                                                        flexible, high-efficiency fossil-fuel power plants will also be needed
                                                             to ensure reliable power supplies. the most efficient fossil-fuel
                                                        at kirishi
                                    the updated unit 6power  plants has  been in regular
                                                                    are state-of-the-art       service
                                                                                         combined  cycle plants, whose fuel
                                                       consumption
                                    since 2012. have your            per kilowatt-hour
                                                           expectations                        ? one-third less than the
                                                                                          is about
                                                                             been fulfilled
                                                             average figure for the world’s gas-fired fleet. even greater efficiency
                                    denis bashuk : this interview has given me a good reason to come back to
                                                             can be attained using combined heat and power plants, which gen-
                                    kirishi from our moscow headquarters and see for myself how well unit 6 is
                                                             erate both electricity and heat in the form of steam or hot water.
                                    performing. as chief engineer at kirishi, i oversaw the unit’s modernization
                                                             the net efficiency of the gas-fired cogeneration plant that we’re
                                    from 2005 to 2008. at that time, i was very anxious to see if all the ambitious
                                                             now building in düsseldorf, germany is expected to exceed 61%.
                                    target parameters could be fulfilled. and siemens kept its word. the new tur-
                                                             when the thermal energy that will be diverted for district heating is
                                    bine unit, which has a capacity of 800 megawatts, has increased our efficiency
                                                             also included in the equation, overall fuel utilization efficiency
                                                             increases to 85%.

14                                                      16

efficient power transmission                                        in generating electricity from natural gas from the earlier level of 38% to 55%
                                                                    today. as a result, we now need one-third less natural gas to produce the
                                                                    same amount of electricity.
distributing power intelligently
                                                                    why did ogk-2 choose siemens as its partner for this project ?
                                                                    denis bashuk : we first started thinking about repowering the turbine unit
                                                                    around 2004. there were various technical possibilities, and several companies
                                                                    submitted interesting offers for turnkey solutions. one argument in favor of
                                                                    siemens was that its gas turbines fit in perfectly with our modernization
                                                                    concept. a high degree of operational reliability was also important to us, and
                                                                    we were impressed with siemens’ very good references in this respect. in
                                                                    previous years, siemens had built more than a hundred similar turbines,
       comparison of power transmission systems                     which were consistently praised by their operators.


                                                                    you trust us so much that ogk-2 has commissioned
hvdc
                                                                    siemens to service unit 6 until 2025.


                                       3–5                      %      (including con-
                                                                    denis bashuk : yes, that’s in line with our philosophy. we prefer it when the
                                                                       version losses)
                                                                    original manufacturer takes responsibility for maintaining and servicing its
                                                                              losscontract with siemens is for twelve years, and we’re confident
                                                                       powerour
                                                                    systems.
                                                                    that we won’t have any problems with service and maintenance during this
                                                                    time.


conventional                                                        what impact is the upgrade of unit 6 having on the



                                       6–10%
                                                                    environment ?
                                                                    denis bashuk : a very positive one! since the power plant now utilizes natural
                                                                                 lossefficiently than before, we’ve substantially lowered our emis-
                                                                         powermore
                                                                    gas much
                                                                    sions of carbon dioxide and nitric oxide. what’s more, we no longer need to
                                                                    burn heavy oil as well in order to generate electricity. unfortunately, that used
                                                                    to be the case, particularly during peak load times in the autumn and winter. in
                                                                    the winter of 2012/2013, just a few months after the upgrade was completed,
              hvdc – high-voltage direct-current transmission
              conventional alternating-current transmission         we were able to dispense with the use of heavy oil for the first time ever.
       source: siemens

                                                         as the general manager of a major power plant operator
                                                         in russia, how do you see the sustainable energy mix of
ideally, renewable energy sources are utilized where they’re most
                                                              future ?
                                                         the are
abundant. however, installations for harvesting renewables
often located far from consumption centers, making the expansion
                                                           denis bashuk : to achieve a sustainable energy mix in the european part of our
                                                            grid of we need to keep improving our efficiency in burning fossil fuels. the
of long-distance transmission grids a key priority. today’scountry,
choice is based on high-voltage direct-current (hvdc) transmission
                                                           best way to do that is to convert our older steam power plants into advanced
technology, which is one of our strengths. we’re a leading provider
                                                           combined cycle power plants. we’ve only recently begun to use this technol-
                                                           ogy inofrussia. new and upgraded combined cycle power plants are also my
of products and solutions that enable the low-loss transmission
large amounts of electricity over long distances.          preferred solution for meeting the growing demand for electricity in russia
                                                          while minimizing the consumption of primary energy.
in consumption centers, the growing but fluctuating feed-in of
electricity from renewable sources can lead to supply instability.
                                                          what is ogk-2 planning in this regard ?
our smart grids safeguard the stability and security of power sup-
                                                          denis
plies – for example, by balancing supply and demand with the    bashuk : we’re truly impressed with the results of siemens’ upgrade of
                                                              help
of innovative software solutions.                         unit 6 at kirishi. at the moment, ogk-2 is building two new units, at the
                                                          cherepovets and serov power plants, using combined cycle turbines from
                                                           the sun for both projects. and the construction of a third unit is in the
because the amount of power provided by the wind and siemens
                                                          planning
fluctuates, energy storage solutions are becoming increasingly phase.
important. we’re working intensively to develop new solutions for
storing large quantities of surplus power. among other projects,
we’re testing electrolysis systems that convert surplus electricity
into storable hydrogen, which can then be used to power fuel-cell
vehicles, for example.




                                                                                          17                                                            19

generating power more efficiently                            sustainable use of energy
                                                                                                                1
               protecting the environment
                                                                                                                        2
                                                             slashing electricity consumption               1 – during a visit to kirishi,
                                                                                                            denis bashuk, the general
                                                                                                            manager of power plant operator
                                                                                                            ogk-2, surveys the entire plant
                                                                                                            from the meeting room.

                                                                                               2 – the kirishi power plant
                                                                                               was built in the mid-1960s.
                                                                                               unit 6, pictured here, was
                                                                                               commissioned in the early
                                                                                               1970s as a conventional steam
                                                                                               power plant. the unit was
                                                                   saving energy with intelligent  building
                                                                                               upgraded        systems
                                                                                                           and expanded
                                                                                               by siemens in 2012.




                                                             40%
                                                             of the energy used worldwide
                                                                                                                       21%
                                                                                                                      of greenhouse gas emissions
                                                             is consumed by buildings                                 originate from buildings




                                                                                   30%
                                                                                   reduction in energy consumption with
                                                                                   siemens’ intelligent building technologies


                                                                   sources: united states department of energy, “energy consumption by application in
                                                                   commercial buildings;” and international energy agency (iea), “world energy outlook 2008”




                                                             the cleanest electricity is always the electricity that’s not used at
                                    “we can nowall.dispense            withenergy
                                                    the potential for reducing          use ofand thus cutting
                                                                                 theconsumption
                                               costs is particularly high in buildings, industrial production and
                                     environmentally            we provide heavy
                                                           harmful
                                               transportation.                technologies oil.”
                                                                                           that match power con-
                                                        sumption to availability. for example, our demand management
                                     denis bashuk is thesystems
                                                         general     helping more
                                                                 aremanager         the more
                                                                                of and        consumers
                                                                                          russian energyuse power when
                                                        supplies are high and rates are low.
                                     utility ogk-2. before assuming this position, he was chief
                                     engineer at the kirishi  power plant,
                                                         our intelligent        where
                                                                         building         he headed
                                                                                   technologies        one of
                                                                                                 are boosting the energy effi-
                                                         ciency to
                                     russia’s largest projects      upgrade and
                                                                of residential         boost thebuildings
                                                                                andcommercial       efficiency
                                                                                                            while enhancing
                                                         comfort power
                                     of a conventional steam               plant. bashuk’s
                                                                  and productivity                positive a wide range of
                                                                                      for users. comprising
                                                         solutions and services, our building management systems control
                                     experience working with siemens convinced him to rely
                                                         everything from electrical installations and heating, ventilation and
                                     on us for servicing kirishi and for retrofitting other plants
                                                         air conditioning systems to lighting, access control, video surveil-
                                     with our technologies.
                                                         lance and fire safety solutions.

                                                            kirishi
                                     the updated unit 6inatthe       has
                                                               area of                 electricservice
                                                                          been in regular
                                                                       transportation,          mobility is of major signif-
                                                        icance.
                                     since 2012. have your                   beentrains
                                                                whether in buses,
                                                             expectations                      ? our electric motors are
                                                                                          or cars,
                                                                                    fulfilled
                                                              about three times as efficient as internal combustion engines. and
                                     denis bashuk : this interview has given me a good reason to come back to
                                                              transportation isn’t the only area in which electric motors are pro-
                                     kirishi from our moscow headquarters and see for myself how well unit 6 is
                                                              viding answers. they’re also optimally suited for use in industry,
                                     performing. as chief engineer at kirishi, i oversaw the unit’s modernization
                                                              where they power conveyor belts and pumps, for example. electric
                                     from 2005 to 2008. at that time, i was very anxious to see if all the ambitious
                                                              drive systems currently account for nearly two-thirds of industrial
                                     target parameters could be fulfilled. and siemens kept its word. the new tur-
                                                              power consumption, which our optimized drive solutions can slash
                                     bine unit, which has a capacity of 800 megawatts, has increased our efficiency
                                                              by up to 70%.



14                                                      18

in generating electricity from natural gas from the earlier level of 38% to 55%
today. as a result, we now need one-third less natural gas to produce the
same amount of electricity.


why did ogk-2 choose siemens as its partner for this project ?
denis bashuk : we first started thinking about repowering the turbine unit
around 2004. there were various technical possibilities, and several companies
submitted interesting offers for turnkey solutions. one argument in favor of
siemens was that its gas turbines fit in perfectly with our modernization
­concept. a high degree of operational reliability was also important to us, and
 we were impressed with siemens’ very good references in this respect. in
 previous years, siemens had built more than a hundred similar turbines,
 which were consistently praised by their operators.


you trust us so much that ogk-2 has commissioned
siemens to service unit 6 until 2025.
denis bashuk : yes, that’s in line with our philosophy. we prefer it when the
original manufacturer takes responsibility for maintaining and servicing its
systems. our contract with siemens is for twelve years, and we’re confident
that we won’t have any problems with service and maintenance during this
time.


what impact is the upgrade of unit 6 having on the
environment ?
denis bashuk : a very positive one! since the power plant now utilizes natural
gas much more efficiently than before, we’ve substantially lowered our emis-
sions of carbon dioxide and nitric oxide. what’s more, we no longer need to
burn heavy oil as well in order to generate electricity. unfortunately, that used
to be the case, particularly during peak load times in the autumn and winter. in
the winter of 2012/2013, just a few months after the upgrade was completed,
we were able to dispense with the use of heavy oil for the first time ever.


as the general manager of a major power plant operator
in russia, how do you see the sustainable energy mix of
the future ?
denis bashuk : to achieve a sustainable energy mix in the european part of our
country, we need to keep improving our efficiency in burning fossil fuels. the
best way to do that is to convert our older steam power plants into advanced
combined cycle power plants. we’ve only recently begun to use this technol­
ogy in russia. new and upgraded combined cycle power plants are also my
preferred solution for meeting the growing demand for electricity in russia
while minimizing the consumption of primary energy.


what is ogk-2 planning in this regard ?
denis bashuk : we’re truly impressed with the results of siemens’ upgrade of
 unit 6 at kirishi. at the moment, ogk-2 is building two new units, at the
 ­cherepovets and serov power plants, using combined cycle turbines from
  siemens for both projects. and the construction of a third unit is in the
­planning phase.




                                                                                    19

generating power more efficiently
               protecting the environment




20

the young engineer has good reason to be
pleased and even quite proud of his work
because he’s making a major contribution
to providing reliable energy while also
helping protect the environment in the
­region around st. petersburg: “i think we
 have to do even more to minimize environ-


                                                                                                      33%
 mental impact. but things are moving in the
 right direction: environmental protection
                                                      reduction in energy consumption
 is becoming more and more important
 to the people of russia.” this shift in
 ­attitude is also being supported by the             the power plant’s upgraded unit now
  ­government, which has put in place the
   ­under­lying economic, organizational and          requires one-third less natural gas to
    legal pre­­re­quisites for producing electri­c­
    ity more efficiently and reducing energy          produce the same amount of electricity.
    ­consumption.

a new generation of engineers
the thing that kirill gamburger appreci-              kirill gamburger has set ambitious goals                       2
ates most about his job is the teamwork               for his future. having already earned two          1
with highly committed fellow employees.               engineering degrees, he’s now working on
whether for small-scale “hot-section” in-             a degree in economics at the state poly-
spections or major inspections of the                 technical university in st. petersburg –       1 – via long-distance overhead
                                                                                                     transmission lines, the kirishi
­turbines in unit 6, he can always count on           with support from siemens. “i feel very        power plant supplies electricity
 his well-qualified coworkers. “we’re a great         connected to siemens. my cousin, who,          to russia’s entire northwestern
 team, because we have some of the world’s            like me, is an engineer, also works for        region – all the way to murmansk,
                                                                                                     which is north of the arctic circle.
 top experts when it comes to building                siemens in st. petersburg. at the moment,
 and servicing leading-edge combined cycle            he’s expanding his knowhow during a stint      2 – kirishi is about 170 kilometers
 power plants.” and the cooperation doesn’t           at the head office in erlangen. only a com-    southeast of st. petersburg. the
                                                                                                     economy of this heavily wooded
 stop at russia’s borders: gamburger, who’s           pany like siemens offers opportunities like    area is based on forestry, wood
 been at siemens since 2009, regularly                that.”                                         processing and paper production.
 ­consults with his colleagues in berlin and
  erlangen, germany.                                  in the gamburger family, today’s genera-
                                                      tion is reversing the route taken by their
the engineers and technicians also com-               ancestors, who emigrated from germany
municate frequently with their counter-               to russia around 100 years ago to help
parts at the other russian power plants               build the trans-siberian railway. “that ex-
that use gas turbines from siemens. kirill            plains our german-sounding name, which
gamburger especially enjoys his work at               is anything but common in russia,” says
the plant in kirishi: “there are lots of young        gamburger with a grin. “since it’s easier to
people employed in engineering and proj-              pronounce a ’g’ than an ’h’ in russian, our
ect management at the kirishi power plant             original name ’hamburger’ got changed to
now. by joining forces, we quickly find               ’gamburger’ at some point.” so for kirill
solutions – even when looking for answers             gamburger, working for siemens is, in a
to difficult and complex questions.” gam-             sense, like closing the circle.
burger usually travels from st. petersburg
to kirishi once a month to meet with the                	www.siemens.com/ar/

plant’s managers and engineers. telephone                report-energy

conferences are held each week, to keep                 	www.siemens.com/ar/

everyone up-to-date.                                     report-­e nergy-movie
                                                                                                                                            21

 providing high-quality medical technology
              improving healthcare




22

 acting responsibly

“how can we
 make healthcare
 accessible to
 each and every
 individual? ”
dr. namrata gaur – cardiac surgeon – gurgaon, new delhi, india
as a doctor, i want everyone in india to have high-quality healthcare –
regardless of their social status, gender or age. at our hospital complex,
“medanta – the medicity,” we’re already moving toward this goal: we
deliver healthcare at prices that are 20% to 30% lower than those of
comparable facilities in india. and, with support from siemens, we also
operate a mobile clinic that my colleagues take to rural areas, perform-
ing checkups, providing free treatment and offering local residents health-
care information.




ind            gurgaon       28 ° 28 ' n, 77 ° 1 ' e   population:
                                                       about 1.5 million




                                      gurgaon




                                                                              25

 providing high-quality medical technology
              improving healthcare
                                              leveraging business opportunities

                                             “how can we
                                              make top-quality
                                              healthcare
                                              affordable? ”
                                              dr. naresh trehan – cardiac surgeon and chairman
                                              of “medanta – the medicity ” – gurgaon, new delhi, india
                                              many years ago, i started out with a vision: to set up a hospital in india
                                              where people would receive world-class care at affordable prices.
                                              today, the patients at medanta get the best care available in a wide array
                                              of specialized areas, from heart surgery to traditional indian medicine.
                                              our physicians, who are among the most qualified in the country, are also
                                              involved in clinical research, training and education. software solutions
                                              and imaging systems from siemens are helping make outstanding health-
                                              care affordable by ensuring the efficiency of our workflows.




22

25

 providing high-quality medical technology
                improving healthcare                                                          1




                                                                                  1 – dr. namrata gaur in her
                                                                                  ­element: after performing
                                                                                   ­successful cardiac surgery on
                                                                                    a baby, she gives the young
                                                                                    mother an optimistic prognosis.




     enabling access to healthcare

“i want to help
 ­people and enhance
  their quality of life.”
     siemens’ healthcare solutions    medanta – the medicity




     gurgaon, new delhi, india                         is one of medanta’s areas of specialization.
                                                       each year, some 4,000 cardiac patients
     it was during an operation that dr. namrata       ­receive treatment or undergo surgery at
     gaur realized the direction she wanted to          the hospital, which is located in gurgaon,
     take: the aspiring young doctor was so fas-        a booming city of 1.5 million near new
     cinated by the patient’s beating heart that        delhi. opened in 2009, the multi-special-
     she vowed to become a cardiac surgeon.             ization medical complex boasts a total of
     her father, also a physician, warned her           more than 20 specialist areas under one
     about the tough, predominantly male                roof – from cardiac surgery to oncology.
     ­domain of heart surgery, in which there
      were only a few hundred female practi-           the founder, chairman and managing
      tioners worldwide. but dr. gaur had made         ­director of medanta is dr. gaur’s mentor,
      up her mind. and to this day, the experi-         the indian cardiac surgeon dr. naresh
      enced surgeon is still just as fascinated:        ­trehan, who established medanta with the
      “the heart is more than just a muscle; it’s        aim of making world-class healthcare
      home to the emotions, romance and love.            ­affordable for as many people as possible.
      even children know that it’s something              four years after the hospital’s inaugura-
      special. when i operate on the heart, i’m           tion, dr. gaur is convinced that this mission
      touching the soul of my patients.”                  is being fulfilled: “our 1,250 beds, 350 criti-
                                                          cal-care beds and 45 operating rooms are
     serving many patients from the                       always full. many patients come from nearby
     ­surrounding countryside                             rural areas or from neighboring countries
      dr. namrata gaur operates on two to three           such as uzbekistan, iran, afghanistan and
      patients a day, six days a week. heart surgery      pakistan.”




26

27

 providing high-quality medical technology
              improving healthcare




28

                2

    1




1 – physicians in a medanta heart
catheter lab use a siemens artis
zee angiography system to assess
the condition of a patient’s blood
vessels.

2 – all five of medanta’s cardiac
catheterization laboratories are
equipped with siemens technology.
our syngo.via software enables
­surgeons and radiologists to view
 patient images on screen.




                                     cardiac operations per year                            about            4,000
                                     within a few short years, dr. naresh trehan
                                     has made his vision of creating “the best
                                     hospital between berlin and tokyo” a reality.

                                     one of the reasons why dr. namrata gaur         quality products from siemens. the com-
                                     is so enthusiastic about working at             mitted heart surgeon knows how impor­
                                     ­medanta is its state-of-the-art technology:    tant that is: “in medical school and during
                                      “i can access all of a patient’s electronic    my specialist residency program, i often
                                      health records from virtually any computer     used siemens systems. they provide pre-
                                      at the hospital, even during an operation.     cise r­ esults and are both user-friendly and
                                      and that facilitates and accelerates deci-     extremely reliable. now i use them to
                                                                                     ­
                                      sion-making – for the benefit of my pa-        ­monitor my work as i operate. is the heart
                                      tients.” software from siemens enables all      valve or bypass working, or is there leak-
                                      patient data, including images such as          age? with a siemens cardiac sonogram,
                                      x-rays and angiograms, to be stored on a        i can see immediately and take corrective
                                      single platform – for all departments at the    action if necessary.” however, technology
                                      hospital.                                       from siemens not only promotes positive
                                                                                      patient outcomes. “thanks to the best
                                     siemens technology makes                         equipment and digital networks,” states
                                     work easier                                      hospital head dr. naresh trehan with
                                     what’s more, the imaging data in the elec-       ­
                                                                                      conviction, “we work very productively,
                                     tronic health records is supplied by siemens     our doctors have more time for their
                                     systems. when it comes to ct, mri and pet        ­patients, and we can still deliver healthcare
                                     scanners as well as x-ray and ultrasound          at affordable prices.”     page 38

                                     systems, medanta relies primarily on high-­




                                                                                                                                       29

     healthcare technology for many
     ­specialties under one roof
     at the multi-specialization medanta health-       clinicians can view x-rays and other images
     care facility, siemens has turned the vision      on screen. the attending physician and the
     of the largely digitized hospital into reality.   nursing staff can access each image on a
     the chemical development of film, for             secure drive at virtually every computer 1 in
     many years standard practice with x-ray           the hospital. the flow of data is particular-
     equipment, is a thing of the past at medan-       ly efficient b
                                                                    ­ ecause nearly all the hospital’s
     ta, as are long rows of patient files. all ex-    imaging systems are from siemens and
     amination results are stored electronically.      communicate with the system via uniform
     together with their colleagues in other rooms     data formats and interfaces.
     at the hospital and even at other facilities,
                                                             1 prerequisites include: internet connection to clinical
                                                                network, dicom compliance, meeting of minimum
                                                                hardware requirements and adherence to local
                                                                data security regulations.




                             somatom
                            ­definition flash                          1 msv
                            can reduce radiation dose during
                            heart scans to less than one millisievert.




                            artis zeego with
                            syngo dynact cardiac                      360°
                            is an integrated industrial robotic technology
                            that – by enabling a highly flexible rotation
                            around the human body – creates ct-like cross
                            sections from which 3d images can be gen­
                            erated before, during and after therapeutic
                            interventions.




                            magnetom
                            espree                                   70 cm
                            features a 70-centimer inner bore – to increase
                            patient maneuverability and facilitate scans of
                            obese and ­claustrophobic patients.




                            biograph™ mct                   5 minutes
                            enables whole-body pet-ct scans in only five
                            ­minutes – for a high level of patient comfort.




30

                                                                               providing high-quality medical technology
                                                                                            improving healthcare




syngo.plaza, syngo.dynamics
and syngo.via                              + efficiency
enable – as it systems for radiology, cardiology
and other clinical departments – the more efficient
and precise reading and archiving of patient images.




                                                       artis zee with
                                                                                        3d
                                                       syngo dynact cardiac              images
                                                       allows 3d imaging that enhances the
                                                       precise ­evaluation and effectiveness
                                                       of the latest cardiac interventions.




                                                          acuson sc2000 ™
                                                                                         – 15
                                                          ultrasound system              minutes
                                                          uses automated measurement
                                                          ­processes to considerably accelerate
                                                          ultrasound examinations.




                                                                                             > 25
                                                                       mobile clinic          buses
                                                                       are providing basic medical care to
                                                                       ­people who would otherwise never
                                                                        receive it. siemens has equipped more
                                                                        than 25 mobile clinics in india with
                                                                        healthcare systems in the last ten years.




                                                                                                                      31

 providing high-quality medical technology
              improving healthcare




                                             “medanta is devoted to life.”
                                             dr. naresh trehan opened “medanta – the medicity,” a multi-
                                             specialization medical complex, in 2009. after working many
                                             years as a cardiac surgeon in the u.s., he has been making a
                                             major contribution to cardiology in india since the mid-1980s.
                                             with medanta, dr. trehan aims to set new standards for the
                                             quality of healthcare in india while making medical services
                                             more widely accessible.

                                             dr. trehan, what is the concept underlying medanta?
                                             dr. naresh trehan: medanta offers people in india top-quality medical ser-
                                             vices – with the most up-to-date technology and a staff of world-leading
                                             healthcare professionals. we combine, among other things, traditional indian
                                             herbal medicine with the innovative discoveries of advanced pharmacology.
                                             this enables us to provide people with the best healthcare possible – regard-
                                             less of their social and economic status.
32

how would
strategic    you assess medanta’s development today, four
          context
                                                                                                                1
years after its inauguration?

our answers to the
                                                                                                                           2
dr. naresh trehan: medanta’s development has been outstanding in every
respect. we’ve increased the number of beds from 400 to nearly 1,500. our                                   1 – dr. naresh trehan has per-
technical equipment ranges from the most advanced x-ray systems to innova-                                  formed more than 50,000 heart

challenges of
tive linear accelerator technology for cancer treatment. as a result, our
healthcare offerings are now at the highest level. but we’re still working to
                                                                                                            operations in the course of his
                                                                                                            professional life. he conveys
                                                                                                            his knowledge and extensive


demographic change
continuously improve.                                                                                       experience to colleagues at his
                                                                                                            own hospital, medanta.

you want to offer outstanding medical services and, at the                                                  2 – medanta is located about 20
                                                                                                            kilometers from new delhi’s inter-
same time, provide more people with access to affordable                                                    national airport – another reason
                                                                                                            for its attractiveness to patients
healthcare. isn’t
    population    that abycontradiction?
               growth      2050 (in billions of people)                                                     from all across india and outside
                                                                                                            the country.
dr. naresh trehan: in the u.s., a coronary artery bypass operation costs about
us$40,000. in europe, the figure is around us$25,000. at medanta, the
                                                                  9.6
same operation costs less than us$4,000. we can provide the operation at
                            + 2.4in india are lower and because we work much
that price because labor costs
          7.2
more productively than our colleagues in the west. in india, heart surgeons
perform an average of more than 600 operations a year – in some cases, up
to six times the number performed by their counterparts in other countries.
our advanced medical technology solutions from siemens and our optimized
it infrastructure are further key factors.                      emerging
                                                                                and developing
                                                                                countries

what are the challenges facing healthcare in india?
dr. naresh trehan: our situation – like so many others in india –industrialized     is paradoxical.
                                                                                   countries
on the one hand, we have outstanding hospitals that attract large numbers
           2013                                                     2050
of patients from abroad. india has taken a leading position here, and i’m
naturally very pleased about that. but on the other hand, even though our
services   cost
       source:    onlynations,
                united            a tenth of
                         aboutdepartment   oreconomic
                                              a twentieth          whatpopulation
                                                                ofaffairs,
                                                       and social           they dodivision,
                                                                                       in the 2013
                                                                                               west,
they’re still not affordable for the majority of india’s people – particularly
those in rural areas.
the world’s population is booming. today, our planet is home to
7.2 billion people. according to the united nations, this number will
what are you doing to master this challenge?
rise to 9.6 billion by 2050. most of this growth will occur in the devel-
dr. naresh
oping   countries,       at medanta,
              trehan:where                we’ve will
                               the population      made      world-class
                                                       increase   from 5.9medical
                                                                               billion treatment
         to 8.2forbillion
affordable
today               moreinpeople.
                              2050. in and  we’ve launched
                                         addition,   people are   the    healthy
                                                                     living   longer.and educated
village program
average                to fosterworldwide,
           life expectancy        healthcarewhich
                                                and medical
                                                       is now 69 expertise
                                                                    years for  outside
                                                                                 peo- the cities.
we’re
ple     training
     born  between personnel
                        2005 andto provide   medical
                                     2010, will rise totreatment     and
                                                          76 years for      education
                                                                         those  born in villages,
and we operate
between     2045 and      2050. inclinic
                       a mobile          to serve
                                     the more       rural areas.
                                                developed            siemens
                                                               countries,        has provided us
                                                                             average
with   cancer    diagnostic    equipment.     we   use   it to examine
life expectancy will be 83, while people in the emerging countries          people    in rural areas
free  of  charge    and   refer them,
will live to an average age of 75.      when    necessary,     to local    hospitals.   in my opin-
ion, access to medical services in india has improved considerably in the last
five years.
this   change  i’mposes
                    confident
                            majorthat,  within the
                                    challenges    fornext
                                                        theten   years,healthcare
                                                                           we’ll be providing up
                                                              world’s
to 50% more
systems.    in thepatients   with access
                      fast-growing          to high-quality
                                       emerging    and developinghealthcare.
                                                                           countries,
the demand for professional, affordable entry-level healthcare
why didisyou
solutions         decideintothe
             intensifying.     partner           siemens?
                                         withcountries,
                                 industrialized            population
growth will be minimal. however, the progressive aging of the pop-
dr. naresh trehan: i have a high regard for the quality of the company’s medical
ulations in those countries will increase the demand for medical
systems and its services. it’s unbeatable. we’re 100% certain that siemens
services there, too. for many years, we at siemens have been work-
products won’t let us down. i also have a high regard for the company’s char-
ing to improve healthcare worldwide – with medical devices,
acter. when siemens wants to sell us something, they send one person. but
healthcare it solutions and lab tests. the following pages document
when it’s a question of providing services, they send us four. and i appreciate
the progress we’ve made in our three key strategic action areas.
that very much. in addition, the company gives us opportunities to cooperate
in joint research projects in order to develop technologies that meet our
requirements – also in terms of cost.




                                                                                                       33

 providing high-quality medical technology         fighting the most threatening diseases
              improving healthcare


                                                   faster, more accurate
                                                   diagnosis reduces the risk of
                                                   life-threatening illness


                                                        number of patients treated worldwide
                                                        using siemens medical devices and lab tests 1




                                                   90               million
                                                                                                     treated patients
                                                                                                                            target
                                                                                                                            2014




                                                   86 million
                                                                                                     treated patients
                                                                                                                            current
                                                                                                                            situation
                                                                                                                            2013




                                                   70 million
                                                                                                    treated patients
                                                                                                                           starting
                                                                                                                           point
                                                                                                                           2010



                                                        1   based on the installed base of the siemens products and solutions used to diagnose
                                                            and treat heart attack, stroke, hiv/aids, tuberculosis, breast cancer and lung cancer,
                                                            taking into account only those product categories included in the recommendations
                                                            of the relevant medical societies.




                                                   according to world health organization (who) statistics for the
                                                   year 2011, about 30% of all deaths due to illness are caused by car-
                                                   diovascular diseases, 15% by cancer and 15% by infection. medical
                                                   products and solutions from siemens are helping drive the fight
                                                   against these life-threatening illnesses. in 2013, for instance, our
                                                   healthcare devices and lab tests were used to examine or treat
                                                  “medanta is devoted to life.”
                                                   more than 86 million victims of heart attack, stroke, breast cancer,
                                                   lung cancer, hiv/aids or tuberculosis. in 2014, we aim to help treat
                                                   more than 90 million people worldwide.
                                                  dr. naresh trehan opened “medanta – the medicity,” a multi-
                                                   our commitment medical
                                                  specialization                  complex,
                                                                      is particularly               2009.
                                                                                                 inarea
                                                                                      clear in the            after working
                                                                                                        of hiv/aids.  africa  many
                                                  years
                                                   accountsasfor about 60%surgeon
                                                               a cardiac                     hiv u.s.,
                                                                                        in the
                                                                             of the world’s                   has been
                                                                                                         he about
                                                                                                  sufferers:              making a
                                                                                                                   22.5 mil-
                                                            the continent’s inhabitants
                                                   lion of contribution
                                                  major                      to cardiologyare currently
                                                                                                 in indiainfected
                                                                                                             sincewith
                                                                                                                    the the
                                                                                                                         mid-1980s.
                                                   immunodeficiency virus. for rapid, effective therapy, early testing
                                                  with medanta, dr. trehan aims to set new standards for the
                                                   is vital. and this is where siemens comes in. in africa, we’ve
                                                  quality     of healthcare in india while making medical services
                                                   equipped 18 laboratories in ten countries with lab tests and con-
                                                  more    widely
                                                   ducted more than accessible.
                                                                       350,000 examinations. attending physicians use
                                                   the results to select and administer drug combinations tailored to
                                                  dr.
                                                  each  patient. what
                                                      trehan,                    just one underlying
                                                                        is the –concept
                                                                 this example                         medanta?
                                                                                          of many – highlights the
                                                   major role that our clinical diagnostic tests are playing in the battle
                                                  dr. naresh trehan: medanta offers people in india top-quality medical ser-
                                                   against the world’s most dangerous diseases.
                                                  vices – with the most up-to-date technology and a staff of world-leading
                                                  healthcare professionals. we combine, among other things, traditional indian
                                                  herbal medicine with the innovative discoveries of advanced pharmacology.
                                                  this enables us to provide people with the best healthcare possible – regard-
                                                  less of their social and economic status.
32                                           34

how would
improving   you assess
          quality                   the healthcaretoday,
                        medanta’sindevelopment
                  and productivity                 field four
                                                                                                            1
years after its inauguration?
                                                                                                                       2
high-quality                  healthcare services
dr. naresh trehan: medanta’s development has been outstanding in every
respect. we’ve increased the number of beds from 400 to nearly 1,500. our                               1 – dr. naresh trehan has per-
must          remain
technical equipment           affordable
                     ranges from the most advanced x-ray systems to innova-                             formed more than 50,000 heart
                                                                                                        operations in the course of his
tive linear accelerator technology for cancer treatment. as a result, our                               professional life. he conveys
healthcare offerings are now at the highest level. but we’re still working to                           his knowledge and extensive
continuously improve.                                                                                   experience to colleagues at his
                                                                                                        own hospital, medanta.

you want to offer outstanding medical services and, at the                                              2 – medanta is located about 20
                                                                                                        kilometers from new delhi’s inter-
same time, provide more people with access to affordable                                                national airport – another reason
    number of patients treated every hour worldwide                                                     for its attractiveness to patients
healthcare. isn’t that
    using siemens      a contradiction?
                   medical devices and lab tests 1                                                      from all across india and outside
                                                                                                        the country.
dr. naresh trehan: in the u.s., a coronary artery bypass operation costs about
us$40,000. in europe, the figure is around us$25,000. at medanta, the
                 170,000                        203,000
same operation costs less than us$4,000. we can provide the operation at        200,000
that price because labor costs in india are lower and because we work much
more productively than our colleagues in the west. in india, heart surgeons
perform an average of more than 600 operations a year – in some cases, up
to six times the number performed by their counterparts in other countries.
our advanced medical technology solutions from siemens and our optimized
it infrastructure are further key factors.


what are the challenges facing healthcare in india?
dr. naresh trehan: our situation – like so many others in india – is paradoxical.
         1h
on the one hand, we have outstanding hospitals that attract large numbers
of patients from abroad. india has taken a leading position here, and i’m
naturally very pleased about that. but on the other hand, even though our
               starting point          current situation          initial target
                     about a tenth or a twentieth
services cost only2010                       2013                       in the west,
                                                      of what they do2014
they’re still not affordable for the majority of india’s people – particularly
those in rural areas.
      1   based on the installed base of siemens imaging products and their typical utilization.
          we’ve also taken into account the number of in-vitro tests worldwide, divided by the
          average number of tests per patient.
what are you doing to master this challenge?
dr. naresh trehan: at medanta, we’ve made world-class medical treatment
affordable
in 2013, more for more   people. and
                  than 203,000          we’ve
                                   patients     launched were
                                              worldwide     the healthy
                                                                  treated and
                                                                          or educated
village program
examined            to foster
            every hour    usinghealthcare   and medical
                                 siemens medical           expertise
                                                      devices          tests. the cities.
                                                              and laboutside
we’re
as            wepersonnel
       training
    a result,                to provide
                  met the target    we’dmedical   treatmentinand
                                          set for ourselves     2010education
                                                                      a year in villages,
and wethan
earlier   operate   a mobile
               planned.   this clinic           ruralconfirms
                                      to serveboth
                                achievement            areas. siemens   has provided us
                                                                our success
with  cancer   diagnostic   equipment.    we   use it to examine
and motivates us to further improve the quality and productivity of people in rural areas
free  of charge   and  refer
healthcare services and enable even more patients to benefit from in my opin-
                             them,   when   necessary,   to local hospitals.
      access to medical
ion,technologies
our                        services in india has improved considerably in the last
                     in 2014.
five years. i’m confident that, within the next ten years, we’ll be providing up
to substantial
a  50% more patients
                 proportionwithofaccess  to high-quality
                                  healthcare    expenditurehealthcare.
                                                              worldwide is
currently wasted due to inefficiency. by providing efficient products
       did youwe’re
whysolutions,
and              decide    to partner
                       making            with siemens?
                                a key contribution  to ensuring that
medical examinations remain widely available despite rising cost
dr. naresh trehan: i have a high regard for the quality of the company’s medical
pressures.
systems and its services. it’s unbeatable. we’re 100% certain that siemens
products won’t let us down. i also have a high regard for the company’s char-
acter. when siemens wants to sell us something, they send one person. but
when it’s a question of providing services, they send us four. and i appreciate
that very much. in addition, the company gives us opportunities to cooperate
in joint research projects in order to develop technologies that meet our
requirements – also in terms of cost.




                                                                                                   35

 providing high-quality medical technology         providing access to healthcare
              improving healthcare


                                                   medical imaging for everyone –
                                                   from basic care to highly specialized
                                                   diagnostics


                                                        patients in emerging countries
                                                        with access to siemens imaging systems 1




                                                   1 billion                                                target
                                                                                                            2014




                                                   970 million                                                                  current
                                                                                                                                situation
                                                                                                                                2013




                                                   760     million                                                              starting
                                                                                                                                point
                                                                                                                                2010



                                                        1   based on the installed base of siemens cts in 113 emerging countries (< 0.785 in the un
                                                            human development index of 2010). we’ve derived the number of inhabitants per ct from
                                                            a calculation of ct density in selected countries.




                                                   in 2013, more than 970 million patients in emerging countries had
                                                   access to siemens imaging systems. but we’re still not satisfied: by
                                                   2014, we want to increase this figure to more than one billion. our
                                                   aim is to boost the utilization rates of existing x-ray systems and
                                                   ct/mrt scanners and improve basic healthcare services by provid-
                                                   ing robust low-cost medical technologies like our multix select dr
                                                  “medanta is devoted to life.”
                                                   digital x-ray system and our somatom spirit ct scanner.


                                                  dr. naresh trehan opened “medanta – the medicity,” a multi-
                                                  specialization medical complex, in 2009. after working many
                                                  years as a cardiac surgeon in the u.s., he has been making a
                                                  major contribution to cardiology in india since the mid-1980s.
                                                  with medanta, dr. trehan aims to set new standards for the
                                                  quality of healthcare in india while making medical services
                                                  more widely accessible.

                                                  dr. trehan, what is the concept underlying medanta?
                                                  dr. naresh trehan: medanta offers people in india top-quality medical ser-
                                                  vices – with the most up-to-date technology and a staff of world-leading
                                                  healthcare professionals. we combine, among other things, traditional indian
                                                  herbal medicine with the innovative discoveries of advanced pharmacology.
                                                  this enables us to provide people with the best healthcare possible – regard-
                                                  less of their social and economic status.
32                                           36

how would you assess medanta’s development today, four
                                                                                        1
years after its inauguration?
                                                                                                    2
dr. naresh trehan: medanta’s development has been outstanding in every
respect. we’ve increased the number of beds from 400 to nearly 1,500. our           1 – dr. naresh trehan has per-
technical equipment ranges from the most advanced x-ray systems to innova-          formed more than 50,000 heart
                                                                                    operations in the course of his
tive linear accelerator technology for cancer treatment. as a result, our           ­professional life. he conveys
healthcare offerings are now at the highest level. but we’re still working to        his knowledge and extensive
continuously improve.                                                                ­experience to colleagues at his
                                                                                      own hospital, medanta.

you want to offer outstanding medical services and, at the                          2 – medanta is located about 20
                                                                                    kilometers from new delhi’s inter-
same time, provide more people with access to affordable                            national airport – another reason
                                                                                    for its attractiveness to patients
healthcare. isn’t that a contradiction?                                             from all across india and outside
                                                                                    the country.
dr. naresh trehan: in the u.s., a coronary artery bypass operation costs about
us$40,000. in europe, the figure is around us$25,000. at medanta, the
same operation costs less than us$4,000. we can provide the operation at
that price because labor costs in india are lower and because we work much
more productively than our colleagues in the west. in india, heart surgeons
perform an average of more than 600 operations a year – in some cases, up
to six times the number performed by their counterparts in other countries.
our advanced medical technology solutions from siemens and our optimized
it infrastructure are further key factors.


what are the challenges facing healthcare in india?
dr. naresh trehan: our situation – like so many others in india – is paradoxical.
on the one hand, we have outstanding hospitals that attract large numbers
of patients from abroad. india has taken a leading position here, and i’m
­naturally very pleased about that. but on the other hand, even though our
 services cost only about a tenth or a twentieth of what they do in the west,
 they’re still not affordable for the majority of india’s people – particularly
 those in rural areas.


what are you doing to master this challenge?
dr. naresh trehan: at medanta, we’ve made world-class medical treatment
affordable for more people. and we’ve launched the healthy and educated
­village program to foster healthcare and medical expertise outside the cities.
 we’re training personnel to provide medical treatment and education in villages,
 and we operate a mobile clinic to serve rural areas. siemens has provided us
 with cancer diagnostic equipment. we use it to examine people in rural areas
 free of charge and refer them, when necessary, to local hospitals. in my opin-
 ion, access to medical services in india has improved considerably in the last
 five years. i’m confident that, within the next ten years, we’ll be providing up
 to 50% more patients with access to high-quality healthcare.


why did you decide to partner with siemens?
dr. naresh trehan: i have a high regard for the quality of the company’s medical
systems and its services. it’s unbeatable. we’re 100% certain that siemens
products won’t let us down. i also have a high regard for the company’s char-
acter. when siemens wants to sell us something, they send one person. but
when it’s a question of providing services, they send us four. and i appreciate
that very much. in addition, the company gives us opportunities to cooperate
in joint research projects in order to develop technologies that meet our
requirements – also in terms of cost.

 providing high-quality medical technology
                  improving healthcare                                                                                         1




                                                                                                               1 – a bodhi tree adorns the hospi-
                                                                                                               tal’s foyer. patients and family mem-
                                                                                                               bers of all religions tie red ribbons
                                                                                                               to the tree, a buddhist symbol of wis-
                                                                                                               dom and life, and pray for health –
                                                                                                               their own and that of their relatives.




     dr. namrata gaur     cardiac surgeon


“we want to treat every patient with
 the same degree of care, compassion
 and commitment.”

     dr. namrata gaur is full of enthusiasm for                        job: “my father was a doctor, and i saw how
     her challenging profession, although she                          his patients respected him for his compas-
     continually faces new challenges. one of                          sion and commitment. from him, i learned
     her major concerns is the growing number                          that nothing is more rewarding than help-
     of cardiovascular patients: “the incidence of                     ing people, relieving their pain and en-
     coronary artery disease is increasing sharply,                    hancing their quality of life.” and the very
     and our patients are getting younger all                          popular doctor needs a lot of strength.
     the time. not long ago, for example, we                           at medanta, there are many sick people
     operated on a girl of only 14. one contrib-                       waiting for help, and twelve-hour days and
     uting factor is a genetic predisposition in                       six-day work weeks are the norm in cardiac
     the indian population, another is the chang-                      surgery.
     ing lifestyle. in the cities, in particular, there’s
     more stress, people are smoking more,                             nevertheless, in addition to working in the
     eating less healthy foods and paying less                         operating room and intensive care unit,
     attention to their health in general.” as a                       dr. gaur is also committed to training
     result, india will have to expand its ­capacity                   physicians and nurses: “during training,
                                                                       ­
     for treating cardiovascular disease in the                        i also convey the idea that we need to do
     years ahead. despite growing prosperity,                          more to promote the health of women
     there are still huge social disparities in the                    and children in india.” that’s why she’s so
     country, and relatively few people can af-                        excited about a project being undertaken
     ford health insurance. the challenge is to                        jointly by medanta and siemens: “in the ru-
     give people in india ­access to high-­quality                     ral areas of india, many people are poor, and
     healthcare – regardless of their income                           the next good hospital is often very far
     and their status. for dr. gaur, medanta is                        away. our doctors travel from village to
     on the right track: “we’re providing high-­                       ­village with a mobile clinic equipped with
     quality care for our patients at a cost that is                    devices and systems from siemens, examin-
     about 20% to 30% lower than at compa­                              ing and treating patients free of charge and
     rable hospitals. what’s more, the disadvan-                        educating the rural population about health
     taged receive treatment at reduced cost or                         issues.” dr. namrata gaur now combines in
     even free of change, no matter what their                          her work everything she intended from the
     gender or religion.”                                               start: medical professionalism, personal
                                                                        compassion and social responsibility.
     a fulfilling profession that entails
     making sacrifices                                                   	www.siemens.com/ar/

     the fact that not only the wealthy benefit                           report- ­h ealthcare

     from her work as a heart surgeon gives                              	www.siemens.com/ar/

     dr. gaur the strength she needs to do her                            report- ­h ealthcare-movie




           the statements by siemens’ customers described herein         many variables exist (e.g., hospital size, case mix, level of
           are based on results that were achieved in the customer’s     it adoption) there can be no guarantee that other custom-
38         unique setting. since there is no “typical” hospital and      ers will achieve the same results.

39

 enhancing industrial productivity
               creating efficient solutions




40

 acting responsibly

“how can i enjoy
 life to the fullest
 once again?”
 gordon france – ice hockey player and artist – york harbor, maine, u.s.
 sports and painting are my great passions – even today at the age of 76.
 i’ve played ice hockey with my friends ever since i was a kid. i also enjoy
 traveling with my wife and painting landscapes. but a few years ago,
 disease nearly put a stop to all that. intense pain in my knees was making
 it harder and harder to get around. then i decided to get knee replace-
 ments. the operations gave me back my mobility and put an end to the
 pain. now i’m back in the middle of things.




 usa              york harbor, maine       43 ° 8 ' n, 70 ° 38 ' e   population:
                                                                     about 3,000




                                                                         york
                                                                         harbor




                                                                                   43

 enhancing industrial productivity
               creating efficient solutions
                                               leveraging business opportunities

                                              “how can implants
                                               be manufactured
                                               faster and
                                               at lower cost?”
                                               sabine fietz – engineer – erlangen, germany
                                               as a siemens engineer, i look for answers to technological challenges every
                                               day. people like gordon france show me how important it is to continuously
                                               work on finding more efficient industrial processes and solutions rather
                                               than simply being content with the status quo. the key here is to have a
                                               comprehensive overview of all the steps in both product development and
                                               the manufacturing process – from the initial implant design to production
                                               planning and machine tool configuration (production engineering) to
                                               actual manufacturing and services. by using software solutions to link all
                                               these steps in an end-to-end process chain, we can enable implant manu-
                                               facturers to further simplify, considerably accelerate and, last but not least,
                                               cut the cost of designing implants. we’re also leveraging this approach to
                                               make production processes more efficient in other industries.




40

43

     industry solutions that enhance
     the ­quality of life

     back in the game –
     with new knees
     siemens’ industry solutions    york harbor, maine, u.s.
                                     erlangen, germany




     maine, u.s.                                     the coast of maine. that means he does a        months after leaving the hospital, gordon
                                                     lot of walking on rough terrain – just as he    france was once again leading a full life.
     ice hockey is one of the toughest sports        did before his operations. but today he no      “i can move like a 25-year-old again. my
     around. next to head wounds, knee inju-         longer takes it for granted. “i had severe      quality of life has really improved.”
     ries are the most common result of unin-        knee pain for years, and it kept getting
     tended collisions on the ice. but seventy-      worse. the doctors always diagnosed the         gordon france is only one example among
     six-year-old gordon france wouldn’t dream       same thing: the onset of arthritis. so it was   many. in the u.s., some 720,000 people
     of giving up the sport that’s been his hobby    only a matter of time before i’d either have    receive knee implants every year – people
     since childhood, even though he’s had two       to get knee replacements or quit walking        who couldn’t continue living their normal
     knees replaced: “when i got out of rehab,       altogether.”                                    lives without the help of artificial joints.
     i headed straight back to the rink, grabbed                                                     and it’s here that our knowhow and exper-
     onto the boards and pulled myself along         gordon france was aware that there might        tise in the area of industrial production
     until i got the hang of it again. before i      be complications. he also knew that the         processes can make an important contribu-
     knew it, i was whirling around the ice,         implants would probably have to be              tion. as a producer of innovative industry
     and my knees were working great.” when          ­replaced at some point. but there didn’t       solutions, we’ve developed a solution that
     not playing ice hockey, the successful artist    seem to be much choice: “i couldn’t hike,      will enable implant manufacturers to pro-
     is continually looking for interesting land-     i couldn’t skate, and i couldn’t paint any     duce prosthetics faster, more efficiently and
     scape motifs – preferably in tuscany or          more. something had to be done.” the           more economically. on the pages that fol-
     near his summer home in york harbor on           ­
                                                      operations were a success. about six           low, sabine fietz explains how it all works.

44

                                   enhancing industrial productivity
                                                 creating efficient solutions




           1

               2



1/2 – five-time grandfather
­gordon france sets a fast pace
 in the rink. thanks to two
 ­artificial knees, he can still
  play his ­favorite sport.




                                                                                45

 enhancing industrial productivity
                creating efficient solutions




                                                            1
                                                                 2



                                                     1 – knee replacements make it
                                                     ­possible for people like gordon
                                                      france to live normal, active lives
                                                      once again.

                                                     2 – at our technology and applica-
                                                     tion center in erlangen, germany,
                                                     sabine fietz describes how intelli-
                                                     gent software solutions from
                                                     siemens enable manufac­turers to
                                                     produce implants faster and thus
                                                     more economically – for the bene-
                                                     fit of patients.




     industry solutions for people                   only have decades of experience in indus-       growing.” in order to manufacture vari-
     siemens engineer sabine fietz has big           trial production. we’re also one of europe’s    ously sized batches of prosthetics econom-
     plans: “one of the megatrends in our soci-      largest software providers. our innovative      ically and thus as cost-neutrally as possible,
     ety relates to demographic development.         software solutions enable all process           companies are looking for ways to optimize
     people are living longer, which means that      steps – from a product’s development to its     their existing processes. what’s needed are
     there’s a growing need for healthcare prod-     manufacture – to be simulated, tested and       manufacturing solutions that offer greater
     ucts. as the age pyramid for the industrial-    integrated in a virtual environment. what’s     flexibility and efficiency while maintaining
     ized countries clearly shows, more and          the advantage? our customers can test and       high standards of quality and current levels
     more individuals – like gordon france – are     optimize all steps in the product develop-      of production reliability. “that’s exactly
     reaching an age at which their joints are no    ment and manufacturing process in the           what our solution does,” says sabine fietz.
     longer up to the demands placed on them         virtual domain before a single machine          “by linking virtual and real processes, we
     in daily life. of course, these people still    tool or production facility goes into opera-    enable the efficient use of manufacturing
     want to continue leading active lives. for      tion. they can see what impact a change in      facilities even for small-batch production.”
     many patients, artificial knees are the only    the planned product design has on all fur-      efficiency means one thing above all: speed.
     way to improve their clinical outcomes and      ther production steps, whether the produc-      whether rapidly implementing specifica-
     maintain their quality of life. the challenge   tion facility is running smoothly, and where    tions in the form of digital prototypes,
     is to manufacture increasingly individual-      the manufacturing processes can be made         quickly developing computer-numerical-
     ized products that are also affordable.”        even more productive, efficient and flexi-      ly-controlled (cnc) programs, swiftly set-
                                                     ble.” only when everything is working per-      ting up or retooling machines for different
     this challenge applies particularly to im-      fectly in the on-screen simulation does the     batch sizes or, last but not least, accelerat-
     plants, many of which have only a limited       real production process begin.                  ing machine-tool performance – siemens’
     lifespan and must be replaced after a cer-                                                      solution makes it all possible while also
     tain time. artificial knees, for example, are   siemens is also leveraging this expertise in    ensuring that quality requirements are
     subject to heavy loads and generally do not     its solution for the industrial production of   met. “by implementing this approach,
     last longer than ten to 15 years. the quest     implants, thus supporting prosthetics man-      we’re reducing the cost, effort and time
     to provide the best possible prosthetic for     ufacturers worldwide. as sabine fietz           needed to manufacture implants and lay-
     each patient is spawning a continually in-      knows from many discussions with custom-        ing the foundation for more affordable and
     creasing number of different implant sizes      ers, manufacturers find themselves facing       thus more widely available implantation
     and shapes. aware of this situation, sabine     more and more new challenges: “due to           processes.” that’s what sabine fietz finds
     fietz and her colleagues are leveraging         the steadily increasing number of patients      most rewarding: “our solution is helping
     siemens’ strengths to create solutions for      in need of artificial joints, the demand for    patients regain their quality of life. and ulti-
     implant manufacturers. “at siemens, we not      different implant sizes and shapes is also      mately, that’s what counts.”        page 56



46

knee prosthetics   720,000
in the u.s., some 720,000 people
receive knee implants every year.




                                    47

     innovative industry solution
     from a single source
     the production of implants is a prime ex-     with our comprehensive offerings for auto-
     ample of how siemens’ solutions are help-     mation technology, industrial controls,
     ing enhance industrial productivity. we       drive technology, industry software and
     consistently deploy integrated technol­       services, we supply and support customers
     ogies for the benefit of our customers.       worldwide along the entire value chain –
     our wide-ranging portfolio – coupled with     from product design to production plan-
     solid, internationally proven vertical-mar-   ning and engineering to actual production
     ket ­expertise and a strong customer fo-      and services.
     cus – enables us to deliver the right prod-
     ucts and solutions for every application.     siemens is driving the future of industry.




                                                                 product design                                                1
                                                                 in the chemicals, pharmaceuticals, food and beverages, car
                                                                 and machine tool industries, intensive global competition,
                                                                 increasing product variety and new technologies have radically
                                                                 shortened innovation cycles for products of all kinds. industry
                                                                 software can markedly reduce development times and slash
                                                                 costs. to virtually develop, test and optimize their products,
                                                                 companies worldwide are relying on product lifecycle manage-
                                                                 ment (plm) software from siemens.




                                                                                      1                                              2


                                                                  production planning                                        2
                                                                  industry software makes it possible to completely simulate
                                                                   and optimize production by developing whole factories and
                                                                   individual machines on screen. this approach saves time,
                                                                  ­conserves resources and cuts energy costs while increasing
                                                                   plant profitability. the key to success lies in the integration
                                                                   of our plm software into our automation systems, which cuts
                                                                   time-to-market by up to 50% while enhancing quality.




48

                                                                                     enhancing industrial productivity
                                                                                                   creating efficient solutions




production engineering                                    3          services                                                  5
as the use of hardware and software increases, it is becom-           effective maintenance plays a vital role in industry by
ing more challenging – but also more important – to ensure            increasing plant availability. but service doesn’t end here.
that individual systems communicate and cooperate seam-               from planning and installation to operation and moderni­
lessly. our totally integrated automation portal (tia portal)         zation, we support industrial customers with product-,
is an engineering revolution that enables integrated, uniform         ­system- and application-related services throughout entire
access to all automation tasks while optimizing workflows             plant lifecycles in order to reduce downtime and conserve
and reducing engineering costs by as much as 30%.                     resources. based on decades of vertical-market and process
                                                                      expertise, our rigorous customer focus is enabling us to
                                                                      enhance industrial productivity and efficiency while cutting
                                                                      overall production costs.




                                                                                                            +45 =53

                            3                                                   4                 25 –17
                                                                                                                                  5


production                                                            4
increased automation has revolutionized industry in recent years, and the
trend is continuing. our totally integrated automation (tia) platform
enables companies to optimize their automation solutions – no matter
what industry they’re in. the productivity and efficiency of entire factories
can be improved even further with the help of efficient motors, gears and
converters. the use of innovative and perfectly tailored drive technology
alone can yield energy savings of up to 70%. maximum production perfor-
mance and response are also ensured by our manufacturing execution
­system (mes). thanks to intelligent data linking, companies can influence
 production processes transparently and in real time.

                                                                                                                                  49

 enhancing industrial productivity
               creating efficient solutions




                                              “as researchers, we always have
                                              to think ahead.”
                                              professor berend denkena is head of the institute of produc-
                                              tion engineering and machine tools at leibniz university in
                                              hanover and one of germany ’s leading specialists in the field
                                              of production process and machine tool development.

                                              professor denkena, what’s the connection between your
                                              institute’s work and siemens ?
                                              professor denkena : i’m very familiar with siemens from my previous work in
                                              industry. we cooperate with your company very closely. for example, virtu-
                                              ally all the controls and drives used in our machine tools come from siemens.
                                              our re­search and teaching focus on production process and machine tool
                                              development. in this field, there are many connections to siemens. in the
                                              area of simulation, for example, our work is guided by similar concerns. in the
                                              area of machine tool programming, there are interfaces with siemens’ prod-
                                              uct lifecycle management software. as researchers, we develop innovative
                                              solutions whose implementation may be several years down the road. that is,
                                              we think a little ahead.
50

          has created a standardized process for automating
siemenscontext
strategic
                                                                                                               1
the manufacture of prosthetics. in your opinion, what’s the

our answers to
biggest challenge at this interface with medical engineering ?                                                            2


professor denkena : i’d say it’s probably cost. healthcare solutions have to be                            1 – professor berend denkena has
                                                                                                           headed the institute of production

the challenges of
affordable. and from a technology point of view, it’s extremely difficult to
                                                                                                           engineering and machine tools
combine high quality, reliability and low cost when manufacturing only one                                 at the centre for production
customized product or a few products of a particular type.                                                 technology at leibniz university


globalization
                                                                                                           in hanover, germany, since 2001.
                                                                                                           the activities of the institute’s
what role do you think the individualized mass production                                                  roughly 70 researchers focus on
                                                                                                           production processes, mechatronic
of prosthetics will play in the future ? and how would you                                                 components and production plan-
                                                                                                           ning and organization.
assess their market potential ?
       siemens’ global value chain1
professor denkena : our whole society is aging. what’s more, many people want
                                                                                                           2 – a machine tool controlled
                                                                                                           by a siemens sinumerik system
to remain mobile and active as they grow older. that’s why implants can                                    produces an implant.
enhance the quality of life by lasting longer and fitting better. if you can get
the cost-benefit  ratio
     europe, c.i.s., 2
                          right,
                       africa,   siemens’
                               middle east approach has excellent market potential.

39.9       revenue
           (in billions of �) 3
                                       53%       of total
                                                 worldwide
but that means the process chain has to be automated
220,000                employees 4
                                           61%
from end to end. what are the obstacles here ?
                                                 of total
                                                 worldwide


professor denkena : the problems are usually at the interfaces – from product
design, simulation and planning to the operation or programming of the
machine tools to the actual production. siemens maps end-to-end process
chains for its products. and in my opinion that’s a key prerequisite for success.


one of your current research projects focuses on the
production and implantation of patient-specific prosthetics.
what’s your vision ?
professor denkena : our vision is to implement production processes directly on
site – that is, we want to precisely manufacture components under sterile
conditions as close as possible to the operating room – when, for example, an
implant has to be replaced or a tumor removed. you only see what the situa-
tion really is when an operation is underway. siemens is on the right track –
      americas                                 asia, australia
but our ultimate goal is to manufacture components very quickly right where
20.9      revenue
they’re needed.
          (in billions of �)
                             28%
                              3
                                15.1
                                 of total
                                 worldwide
                                                   revenue
                                                   (in billions of �)
                                                                      20% of total
                                                                          worldwide
                                                                             3




how long do you think it will be6
78,000             employees 4   4,000
                                     22%
                                before
                                             of total

                                       that happens ?
                                             worldwide                employees 4
                                                                                    18%   of total
                                                                                          worldwide



professor denkena : unfortunately, these things always take longer than they
      1 that’s
should.            been
          all figures       our
                      refer to   experience
                               continuing        anyway.
                                          operations       regulatory approval
                                                       2 commonwealth               always
                                                                                        statesplays
                                                                         of independent

a big 3role
          by in
              customer  location
                 the healthcare       4field.  september
                                         as of so,       30, 2013be surprised if it took at least
                                                   i wouldn’t
ten years. i hope it won’t take that long but it’s difficult to make predictions.
in any event, i’m convinced that siemens has made a very important advance
the world’s economies are becoming increasingly interlinked.
since the process you’ve developed may provide many patients with better
trade barriers are falling, commodity exports are on the rise
prosthetics and, thus, enhance their quality of life.
around the globe, and economic centers and economic growth
are shifting from the industrialized nations to the emerging mar-
kets. china’s industrial output has overtaken that of the u.s.,
and more than 100 of today’s fortune 500 companies are in the
bric countries. globalization is advancing at full speed.

these worldwide changes present massive challenges for industry.
new competitors, global value chains and a high degree of market
transparency are adding to the competitive pressures. industrial
companies must continually increase their productivity if they don’t
want to fall behind. and for this, they need innovative manufactur-
ing technologies that allow them to produce more flexibly and at
lower cost, with shorter time-to-market. as one of the world’s
leading providers of automation technology and industry software,
we intend to play a leading role in the future of manufacturing.
                                                                                                      51

 enhancing industrial productivity                 industry 4.0
               creating efficient solutions


                                                   on the road to the
                                                   fourth industrial revolution




                                                          from industry 1.0 to industry 4.0




                                                   1.0 1784                               based on mechanical production
                                                                                          equipment driven by water and
                                                                                          steam power




                                                   2.0 1870                                based on mass production
                                                                                           enabled by the division of labor
                                                                                           and the use of electrical energy




                                                   3.0 1969                               based on the use of
                                                                                          electronics and it to further
                                                                                          automate production




                                                   4.0                  tomorrow
                                                                                               based on the use
                                                                                               of cyber-physical
                                                                                               systems




                                                   it sounds like something out of science fiction: communities of
                                                   “as        organize themselves, we
                                                          researchers,
                                                    machines                        supply always       have
                                                                                           chains automatically coop-
                                                    erate with one another, and unfinished products send the data
                                                   to       for theirahead.”
                                                        think
                                                    needed            processing to the machines that will turn them
                                                   into merchandise. these are the developments that will character-
                                                                 berendenvironment
                                                    ize the production
                                                   professor               denkena of  is tomorrow.
                                                                                          head of themany observersof
                                                                                                                   areproduc-
                                                                                                        institute
                                                    proclaiming the advent of a fourth industrial revolution: industry
                                                   tion engineering and machine tools at leibniz university in
                                                    4.0. the first revolution was triggered by mechanical systems and
                                                    drives (theand
                                                   hanover       powerone  of and
                                                                        loom  germany      ’s leading
                                                                                  steam engine).   thespecialists  in the field
                                                                                                       second involved
                                                    theproduction
                                                   of                  process
                                                         division of labor             production tool
                                                                                and machine
                                                                            and mass                    development.
                                                                                                   techniques. and the
                                                   third was ushered in by electronic systems and computer technol-
                                                   professor    denkena,
                                                    ogies for automating               connection between your
                                                                           what’s theprocesses.
                                                                         manufacturing
                                                   institute’s work and siemens ?
                                                   in the world of industry 4.0, software will network all the steps
                                                    requireddenkena
                                                   professor         : i’m very
                                                             for a product’s    familiar with
                                                                             development,     siemens fromand
                                                                                            manufacturing      previous work in
                                                                                                            mymainte-
                                                   industry.   we cooperate
                                                    nance. products             with your
                                                                       and machines     willcompany
                                                                                             communicate      closely.
                                                                                                         very with onefor     example, virtu-
                                                                                                                          another
                                                    andall
                                                   ally     the controls
                                                          exchange        and drives
                                                                     commands.      theused  in ourofmachine
                                                                                        factories               tools
                                                                                                       the future  willcome    from siemens.
                                                                                                                        optimize
                                                    and re
                                                   our              and manufacturing
                                                            searchtheir
                                                          control                           on production
                                                                         teaching focusprocesses        largelyprocess    and machine tool
                                                                                                                by themselves,
                                                   development.                 withthere
                                                                     in this field,
                                                    although in accordance                 are many
                                                                                      parameters         connections
                                                                                                   defined   by humans   to –siemens.
                                                                                                                              thus      in the
                                                   area   of simulation,
                                                    increasing            forproductivity.
                                                                 industrial   example, ourwithworkour
                                                                                                    is guided   by similar
                                                                                                         unparalleled   rangeconcerns.
                                                                                                                                 of      in the
                                                   area   of machine
                                                    offerings          tool programming,
                                                                for leading-edge     industrialthere  are interfaces
                                                                                                 production,            withasiemens’
                                                                                                               we’ll play       key       prod-
                                                   uct  lifecycle management       software.
                                                    role in shaping this transformation.        as researchers,    we   develop     innovative
                                                   solutions whose implementation may be several years down the road. that is,
                                                   we think a little ahead.
50                                            52

          has created aprocesses
siemensmanufacturing
efficient               standardized process for automating
                                                                                                  1
the manufacture of prosthetics. in your opinion, what’s the
biggest challenge at this interface with medical engineering ?                                               2
making production more
professor denkena : i’d say it’s probably cost. healthcare solutions have to be               1 – professor berend denkena has
flexible
affordable. and fromand         affordable
                         a technology  point of view, it’s extremely difficult to             headed the institute of production
                                                                                              engineering and machine tools
combine high quality, reliability and low cost when manufacturing only one                    at the centre for production
customized product or a few products of a particular type.                                    technology at leibniz university
                                                                                              in hanover, germany, since 2001.
                                                                                              the activities of the institute’s
what role do you think the individualized mass production                                     roughly 70 researchers focus on
                                                                                              production processes, mechatronic
of prosthetics will play in the future ? and how would you                                    components and production plan-
                                                                                              ning and organization.
assess their market potential ?
         potential of the fourth industrial revolution
professor denkena : our whole society is aging. what’s more, many people want
                                                                                              2 – a machine tool controlled
                                                                                              by a siemens sinumerik system
to remain mobile and active as they grow older. that’s why implants can                       produces an implant.
enhance the quality of life by lasting longer and fitting better. if you can get
the cost-benefit ratio right, siemens’ approach has excellent market potential.
     a     b   c   d    e    f   g
 1
but that means the process chain has to be automated
from
  2
     end to end. what are the obstacles here ?
 3
professor denkena : the problems are usually at the interfaces – from product
design,
 4      simulation and planning to the operation or programming of the
machine tools to the actual production. siemens maps end-to-end process
chains for its products. and in my opinion that’s a key prerequisite for success.


one of your current research projects focuses on the
production and implantation of patient-specific prosthetics.
what’s your vision ?
professor denkena : our vision is to implement production processes directly on
site    that is, compare
our –experts      we want manufacturing
                              to precisely manufacture    components
                                               in the fourth             under sterile
                                                                industrial
conditions as
revolution    to close as possible
                  a chess  computer.to why?   becauseroom
                                       the operating        – when,
                                                       a chess        for example, an
                                                                computer
implant   hasmode
in training     to bedetermines
                      replaced orthea tumor  removed.
                                       optimal           anyonly
                                                move inyou        see what
                                                             situation  by the situa-
tion  really is  when  an
analyzing and comparing all possible future game scenarios. andright track –
                            operation  is underway.  siemens   is on the
this our
but                  goal ishappens
         ultimate what
     is precisely            to manufacture    components
                                      in the industry       very quickly
                                                       4.0 world:  all theright where
they’re  needed.
parameters and data used to develop and manufacture products
are analyzed in order to predict optimal production paths and
how    long do you
then reevaluated    afterthink         thisbe
                                  it will
                            each step.                that ithappens
                                              beforemakes
                                            approach          possible ?
to identify the best options for the rest of the process under the
professor denkena : unfortunately, these things always take longer than they
given conditions and the impact their implementation would have
should. that’s been our experience anyway. regulatory approval always plays
on the development and production steps taken so far.
a big role in the healthcare field. so, i wouldn’t be surprised if it took at least
ten years. i hope it won’t take that long but it’s difficult to make predictions.
such flexible, optimized manufacturing processes will slash time-
in any event, i’m convinced that siemens has made a very important advance
to-market, for example, by speeding up the construction of produc-
since the process you’ve developed may provide many patients with better
tion facilities. they’ll also make it possible to manufacture product
prosthetics and, thus, enhance their quality of life.
variants and even single customized products easily and at low
cost. the siemens solution described in this report – which demon-
strates the advantages of lean, customized production in the area
of surgical prosthetics – is one good example of how this approach
will work. another is our electronics factory in amberg, germany,
where our engineers simulate and optimize production processes –
including the control of entire factories – and adapt them to current
conditions when developing new products and while production is
already underway.




                                                                                         53

 enhancing industrial productivity                 intelligent software solutions
               creating efficient solutions


                                                   keys to the
                                                   fourth industrial revolution



                                                         r&d employees and software developers
                                                         (approximate) in fiscal 2013




                                                   29,800                                                        r&d employees




                                                   17,000                                                  software developers




                                                   thereof
                                                   about       8,500                                        software developers
                                                                                                            at the industry
                                                                                                            sector



                                                   software is the heart of intelligent factories. it enables products
                                                   and production cycles to be planned and optimized in the virtual
                                                   world before the first screw is manufactured. software will,
                                                   accordingly, be a key driver of industrial growth in the years
                                                   ahead. according to researchers, the market for industrial soft-
                                                   “as researchers, we always have
                                                   ware alone totals €18 billion (2012), with anticipated annual
                                                   growth of some 8%.
                                                   to think ahead.”
                                                   with our outstanding setup – 17,000 software engineers, of whom
                                                                  our industry
                                                    8,500 are atberend
                                                   professor                              we’re one
                                                                                sectoris– head
                                                                          denkena                   of europe’s
                                                                                                of the          largest
                                                                                                        institute  of produc-
                                                    software companies. a leader in all relevant industrial software
                                                   tion engineering and machine tools at leibniz university in
                                                    segments, we offer a comprehensive software portfolio for the
                                                   hanover     and
                                                    entire value    one
                                                                 chain    of germany
                                                                       – from             ’s leading to
                                                                               product development    specialists   in the field
                                                                                                        manufacturing
                                                   of    maintenanceprocess
                                                      production
                                                    and                         and machine
                                                                       – for industries                development.
                                                                                                  tool car
                                                                                         ranging from      making and
                                                   shipbuilding to aerospace and food production.
                                                   professor denkena, what’s the connection between your
                                                    as a supplier of automation technology and industry software,
                                                   institute’s  work and siemens ?
                                                   we’re one of the few companies to combine the real and virtual
                                                   professor
                                                    worlds ofdenkena : i’m very familiar
                                                                manufacturing            with roof.
                                                                                 under one     siemens from
                                                                                                    we’re   my previous work in
                                                                                                          unsurpassed
                                                   industry.        and with with
                                                               we cooperate
                                                    in this field.                   290 company
                                                                              over your             very closely.
                                                                                         manufacturing            for example, virtu-
                                                                                                          and production
                                                   ally all theworldwide,
                                                    facilities  controls and     alsoused
                                                                             drives
                                                                          we’re       one in  themachine
                                                                                           ofour          toolsofcome
                                                                                                 largest users         from siemens.
                                                                                                                  our own
                                                   our   research
                                                    industry       and teaching focus on production process and machine tool
                                                               software.
                                                   development. in this field, there are many connections to siemens. in the
                                                   area of simulation, for example, our work is guided by similar concerns. in the
                                                   area of machine tool programming, there are interfaces with siemens’ prod-
                                                   uct lifecycle management software. as researchers, we develop innovative
                                                   solutions whose implementation may be several years down the road. that is,
                                                   we think a little ahead.
50                                            54

siemens has created a standardized process for automating
                                                                                          1
the manufacture of prosthetics. in your opinion, what’s the
biggest challenge at this interface with medical engineering ?                                       2


professor denkena : i’d say it’s probably cost. healthcare solutions have to be       1 – professor berend denkena has
                                                                                      headed the institute of pro­duction
affordable. and from a technology point of view, it’s extremely difficult to
                                                                                      engineering and machine tools
combine high quality, reliability and low cost when manufacturing only one            at the centre for production
customized product or a few products of a particular type.                            ­technology at leibniz university
                                                                                       in hanover, germany, since 2001.
                                                                                       the activities of the institute’s
what role do you think the individualized mass production                              roughly 70 researchers focus on
                                                                                       production processes, mechatronic
of prosthetics will play in the future ? and how would you                             components and ­production plan-
                                                                                       ning and organization.
assess their market potential ?
                                                                                      2 – a machine tool controlled
professor denkena : our whole society is aging. what’s more, many people want
                                                                                      by a siemens sinumerik system
to remain mobile and active as they grow older. that’s why implants can               produces an implant.
enhance the quality of life by lasting longer and fitting better. if you can get
the cost-benefit ratio right, siemens’ approach has excellent market potential.


but that means the process chain has to be automated
from end to end. what are the obstacles here ?
professor denkena : the problems are usually at the interfaces – from product
design, simulation and planning to the operation or programming of the
machine tools to the actual production. siemens maps end-to-end process
chains for its products. and in my opinion that’s a key prerequisite for ­success.


one of your current research projects focuses on the
­production and implantation of patient-specific prosthetics.
 what’s your vision ?
professor denkena : our vision is to implement production processes directly on
site – that is, we want to precisely manufacture components under sterile
conditions as close as possible to the operating room – when, for example, an
implant has to be replaced or a tumor removed. you only see what the situa-
tion really is when an operation is underway. siemens is on the right track –
but our ultimate goal is to manufacture components very quickly right where
they’re needed.


how long do you think it will be before that happens ?
professor denkena : unfortunately, these things always take longer than they
should. that’s been our experience anyway. regulatory approval always plays
a big role in the healthcare field. so, i wouldn’t be surprised if it took at least
ten years. i hope it won’t take that long but it’s difficult to make predictions.
in any event, i’m convinced that siemens has made a very important advance
since the process you’ve developed may provide many patients with better
prosthetics and, thus, enhance their quality of life.

 enhancing industrial productivity
                 creating efficient solutions




                                                                     1
                                                                           2




                                                              1 – before an implant is milled in
                                                              the real world, all production steps
                                                              are planned in a virtual environ-
                                                              ment and approved by the implant
                                                              manufacturer. only then does the
                                                              machine tool begin production.

                                                              2 – at the centre for production
                                                              technology at leibnitz university
                                                              in hanover, germany, professor
                                                              berend denkena and sabine fietz
                                                              discuss the challenges, opportuni-
                                                              ties and future of industrially pro-
                                                              duced implants.




     “we all have to think more                        developing the process. our goal is to           operate machine tools under sterile con­
     like visionaries”                                 make implant production ever faster, more        ditions. but this will require a team effort
     professor berend denkena, who holds a             efficient and cheaper. why? because the          involving a wide range of experts from
     doctorate in engineering, is a machining          standard implants used today can’t be ad-        ­different fields. and it will take time. ulti-
     expert. he’s well aware of how important          justed to the bone conditions that physi-         mately, the best option would be to manu-
     absolute precision is in the field of medical     cians discover only after an operation is in      facture directly on site, but many chal-
     technology, where micrometer exactness            progress. as things are now, surgeons ei-         lenges will have to be mastered before
     is a must. as head of the institute for pro-      ther have to remove healthy tissue or fill        that’s a reality.”
     duction engineering and machine tools             damaged tissue with cement – in other
     at leibniz university in hanover, germany,        words, they have to adapt the patient to         the improvements we’re developing are
     professor denkena is working on a variety         the implant instead of tailoring the implant     intended to make procedures less burden-
     of research and development projects in           to the patient. we’re working on solutions       some for patients by fitting the prosthetic
     medical technology and prosthetics.               that – building on an end-to-end, almost         to the bone rather than the other way
                                                       fully automated process chain – may en-          around. physicians will also benefit since
     in his view, siemens’ solutions for the indus-    able implant manufacturers and their part-       they’ll be able to optimize the implant
     trial production of implants are an import-       ners to produce prosthetics in the future        during surgery, once they’ve seen the joint.
     ant advance – one that points the way to          that are better tailored to individual patient   “we all have to think more like visionaries,”
     the future. as he explains, the key is to inte-   requirements. with rigorously improved           says sabine fietz. “our solution shows
     grate the entire process chain from begin-        procedures, it could even become possible        what production processes are going to
     ning to end: “the problems are usually at         to produce implants in hospitals while op-       look like in the future. modern software
     the interfaces – from product design, sim-        erations are taking place.” in professor         solutions are bringing the virtual and real
     ulation and planning to the operation or          denkena’s opinion, such a solution is quite      manufacturing worlds closer together,
     programming of the machine tools to the           conceivable. “implants are currently being       while creating unprecedented momentum
     actual production. for its products, siemens      manufactured on conventional machine             and flexibility. for our customers, that
     maps end-to-end process chains. and in            tools. even when the greatest possible care      means more efficient processes, shorter
     my opinion that’s a key prerequisite for suc-     is taken and the workpiece is sterilized         time-to-market and, last but not least,
     cess.” sabine fietz adds: “however, we’re         upon completion, contamination may oc-           higher productivity at lower cost.”
     already thinking about ways to continue           cur. that’s why we have to find a way to

56

professor berend denkena     leibniz university, hanover, germany


“   siemens has made a very important advance that
  can help provide patients with better implants
  that last longer, work better and, thus, enhance
  their quality of life.”
                                                                     57

                                                      1
                                                             2




                                                1 – gordon france discovered his
                                                passion for painting after he
                                                retired. when a friend bought one
                                                of his landscapes, he decided to
                                                keep pursuing his new hobby.

                                                2 – the beach and the countryside
                                                near gordon france’s summer
                                                home in york harbor, not far from
                                                portsmouth, maine, are a never­-
                                                ending source of inspiration for his
                                                landscape paintings, even after
                                                many years.




     “once again, i can stand                       over cliffs and rocks in search of the per-   turn out, he wouldn’t have waited so long.
     at my easel for hours”                         fect view. there was a time when the pain     “everything went perfectly. and it feels as if
     when talking to gordon france, two top-        in his knees made this impossible and         a new world has opened up to me. i can do
     ics come up again and again: sports and        france was forced to gradually withdraw       everything i did before. i don’t even notice
     landscapes. both are passions of his.          from what had been a very active life.        the artificial joints. it’s great.” gordon france
     “i want my paintings to have visual and                                                      would advise anyone in a similar situation to
     emotional appeal for the viewer,” he says.     the turning point came one day when he        have the operation as soon as possible.
     “if i achieve that, i’ve succeeded.” thanks    was playing hockey and intolerable pain       “i have my life back. i have so many ideas for
     to his new knee joints, france is once         forced him to leave the ice after only five   things i want to paint. and i can finally play
     again able to stand at his easel and paint     minutes. “i couldn’t stand up any more.       ice hockey again with my old friends.”
     without pain. the implants have also           right then, i knew i’d have to do something
     given him the mobility he needs to go out      about my knees. the pain was curtailing         	www.siemens.com/ar/

     and discover new motifs. every year, he        my quality of life tremendously. i could no      report-industry

     and his wife travel to italy, where he hikes   longer do the things i loved most.” if he’d     	www.siemens.com/ar/

     through forests, crosses streams and climbs    known then how well the operations would         report-­i ndustry-movie




                                                                  gordon france     ice hockey player and artist


                                                                 “ i can do everything with my artificial
                                                                   knees. and the best part is that i don’t
                                                                   even notice them.”
58

enhancing industrial productivity
              creating efficient solutions




                                             59

making infrastructures more intelligent
            enhancing quality of life




60

 acting responsibly

“what makes
 life in vienna
 so special?
 come with us –
 we’ll show you!”
 the freimüller-köhler family – vienna, austria
 we love living in vienna. as passionate city dwellers, we appreciate the high
 quality of life that our city offers. vienna has lots of beautiful public squares,
 cultural offerings for every taste, excellent schools, a fantastic transportation
 infrastructure, plenty of green open spaces – and we feel completely safe
 here. best of all: our city is further expanding its infrastructure for a sustain-
 able, livable future.




 aut              vienna      48 ° 12 ' n, 16 ° 22 ' e   population:
                                                         about 1,750,000




                                                         vienna




                                                                                      63

making infrastructures more intelligent
            enhancing quality of life
                                           leveraging business opportunities

                                          “ more quality
                                            of life or more
                                            economic growth?
                                           vienna can
                                            have both.”
                                           dr. michael häupl – mayor of vienna, austria
                                           vienna is the capital of classical music, a center of culture and the arts. i’ve
                                           made it my mission to make the city a hub for science, research, innovation
                                           and technology as well. we’ve improved the quality of life for vienna’s resi-
                                           dents by implementing new technologies – in the areas of traffic management
                                           and public transportation, for example. and we intend to keep building on
                                           our successes by implementing intelligent infrastructure solutions for mobility,
                                           power supply and building management.




60

63

     intelligent infrastructure is enhancing the quality of life

     environmental awareness and
     energy efficiency, viennese style:
     austria’s capital epitomizes
     what makes a city livable.
     siemens’ infrastructure solutions    vienna, austria

64

                                                                                                  making infrastructures more intelligent
                                                                                                              enhancing quality of life




                                          vienna, austria                                  two decades. one focus has been on infra-
                                                                                           structure, where vienna has been rigorously
                                          “back when our kids were small, it was           implementing “intelligent” strategies. and
                                          ­really hard for me to get on the tram with      siemens has provided many of the city’s
                                           a stroller. today, parents with young chil-     closely integrated infrastructure solutions:
                                           dren can easily board the ultra-low floor       metro trains and their electrification, traf-
                                           trams – now that’s what i call progress!”       fic management systems, power distribu-
                                           julia köhler loves living with her family in    tion solutions, energy-efficient building
                                           vienna – a city that repeatedly ranks among     technologies and security systems for pub-
                                           the world’s most livable urban centers. she     lic squares, metro stations and stadiums.
                                           and her family regularly use public trans-
                                           portation. mayor michael häupl knows            vienna’s decision-makers recognized early
                                           how important the city’s buses, metros and      on that a healthy environment is a pre­
                                           trams are to the inhabitants of vienna.         requisite for ensuring quality of life. major
                                           summing up the city’s formula for success,      investments in energy-efficient and envi-
                                           he says, “like any successful business          ronmentally friendly technologies and in
                                           launching a new product, we surveyed our        public transportation are not inconsistent
                                           customers. the feedback we received was         with a city’s prosperity. mayor häupl is
                                           that vienna’s residents want public trans-      ­convinced that a higher quality of life also
                                           portation that operates reliably and on          fosters economic success. “today, vienna
                                           schedule, and the system should also be          generates 48% of austria’s total tax reve-
                                           attractive and comfortable.” that’s why          nue,” he says. “we have a healthy, prosper-
                                           the city opted, for example, for siemens’        ous mix of industry, financial and other
                                           ultra low floor (ulf) trams, with their          services, and highly creative businesses.”
                                           ­extra-wide doors and floor height of just       and it’s this mix that gives the city the
                                            19 centimeters.                                 ­flexibility it needs to implement innovative
                                                                                             infrastructure solutions and thus further
                                          state-of-the-art trams are just one small          enhance its residents’ quality of life.
                                          piece of the quality-of-life mosaic in this
                                          metropolis on the danube. mayor häupl
                                          sees his city as “a mixture of grand classical
                                          traditions and innovative technologies. in
                                          addition to being steeped in history and
                                          abounding in culture, vienna is a business
                                          and science hub.” for a more detailed pic-
                                          ture, just ask the city’s residents. julia
                                          köhler appreciates “all the green spaces
      1                                   and the vibrant cultural scene. and vienna
                                          is a family-friendly city – a wonderful place
                2
                                          to raise children.” her husband, dr. georg
                                          freimüller, who’s an attorney, says that
1 – the viennese want their mass
transit system to be both attractive      the quality of life in vienna can also be at-
and comfortable. combining these          tribut­ed to the magnificent backdrop of the
features, our ultra low floor (ulf)
trams are as much a part of vienna’s
                                          city’s many historic buildings and its safety
cityscape as the opera house or           and cleanliness. their children – carlotta,
st. stephen’s cathedral. the trams’       max and elsa – feel that vienna can hold its
ultra-low floors are a particular boon
for the elderly and for passengers who    own against any city in the world.
are wheelchair-bound or traveling
with baby carriages or strollers. ulf
                                          it’s no coincidence that the residents of
vehicles also save the city the expense
of building costly station platforms.     the austrian capital give their hometown
                                          such high marks for quality of life. under
2 – the freimüller-köhler family on
                                          mayor häupl, vienna has taken systematic
the go in their hometown of vienna
                                          steps to enhance its livability over the past



                                                                                                                                            65

making infrastructures more intelligent
             enhancing quality of life




     what’s being done to enhance                     and it’s also cheaper since i don’t have to
     the quality of life in vienna?                   pay for parking.” georg freimüller also pre-
     ask the viennese and you’ll hear lots of         fers to use his annual transport pass when
     praise for their city’s transportation system.   commuting to his office or the courthouse
     the freimüller-köhlers take the metro,           or when running errands. “the city has
     trams and buses as often as possible, even       done a lot for public transportation,” he
     though they have driver’s licenses and           says. “in recent years, the network has
     own several cars. “public transportation in      ­become denser, and the buses, metro and
     vienna is fast, convenient, comfortable
     ­                                                 trams run more often.” and as the statistics
     and cheap,” says carlotta, a university stu-      show, ridership is up: thanks to vienna’s
     dent. “i only take the car when i have to.”       master transit plan, the use of public trans-
     her mother, julia, who works at the univer-       portation within the city limits rose to a
     sity, needs the car for her commute but           worldwide record of 39% in 2012, up from
     leaves it at home when running errands. “i        34% in 2001. nevertheless, vienna’s motor-
     love the flair of vienna’s markets and the        ists are not at a disadvantage compared to
     variety they offer,” she says. “the bus and       their counterparts in other big cities. while
     tram get me there a lot faster than my car.       ­vienna makes it easy to travel by bicycle,




66

                2

     1



1 – vienna’s open-air markets are
julia köhler’s favorite places to
shop, and she gets there faster and
cheaper by public transportation
than by car. today, she and her
daughter elsa are taking the metro
to the city’s popular naschmarkt.
thanks to our regenerative braking
technology, the system’s trains
are very energy­-efficient and eco­
friendly.

2 – the naschmarkt is one of
­vienna’s most popular attractions,
 drawing residents and tourists
 alike with its wide range of prod-
 ucts. julia köhler comes here to
 buy not only fruit and vegetables
 from austria but also specialties
 from southern europe and asia.




public transportation                                                                         39%
in vienna, 39% of all journeys are made using
public transportation, well above the european
average of 28%. the aim is to increase the figure
for vienna to 40% by 2020.

                     metro, bus and tram, state-of-the-art traffic   we’re keeping the traffic moving
                     management technology keeps the city’s          traffic jams and delays are less frequent in
                     car traffic moving smoothly. “we’re not         vienna than in other big cities, and
                     anti-­driver, we’re pro-people,” emphasizes     siemens technology is playing a pivotal role
                     mayor häupl. “we want the people in our         in this success. both the city’s road traffic
                     city to live well and not be overwhelmed        management center and its metro control
                     by the traffic.” in general, however, public    center rely on our intelligent solutions. the
                     transportation always takes precedence          metro control center manages both the
                     over private transportation in vienna. in       ­system’s power supply and its operation,
                     expanding its public transportation system,      centrally monitoring all trains, platforms
                     the city is investing heavily in innovative      and display panels throughout the city. in
                     technologies such as real-time intermodal        addition, we’ve been supplying the local
                     journey planners, smartphone-accessible          public transport operator, wiener linien,
                     timetable information and one of the             with trains, electrification systems, inter-
                     world’s most advanced metro control              lockings and automatic train control sys-
                    ­centers.                                         tems for decades.

                                                                                                                     67

making infrastructures more intelligent
             enhancing quality of life




                                                                                                       457 tons
     living well with less electricity
     and water
                                                     annual reduction in co2 emissions
     the emphasis on quality of life in vienna
     dates back to the ancient romans, who
     ­
     enjoyed bathing and relaxing in sulfur          at the theresienbad pool complex, our
     springs on the site of the present-day
     theresienbad. one of the city’s oldest
     ­                                               technologies have slashed heating use
     ­public swimming pools, the theresienbad
      is more than a good place for quality          by 52% and water consumption by 76%
      ­leisure time; it’s also a model of energy
       ­efficiency and climate protection.           while reducing carbon emissions by
     in 2009, we installed state-of-the-art build-   457 metric tons a year.
     ing technology throughout the entire pool
     complex. as part of an energy performance
     contracting agreement, we made an up-
     front investment of €5.2 million, to be
     ­financed over 15 years through guaranteed
      water and energy savings. this arrange-
      ment was good for the city since vienna
      didn’t have to contribute capital from its
      limited investment reserves. and the re-       creative solutions
      sults were impressive: heating costs were      for climate ­protection
      cut by 52% and water consumption slashed       energy-efficient buildings are a key factor
      by 76%. savings have already exceeded the      when it comes to making cities more
      contractually guaranteed level of nearly       ­climate-friendly. on this front, there’s still
      €600,000 a year, benefiting not only city       room for improvement in vienna, accord-
      coffers but also the environment and thus       ing to the european green city index, a
      all of vienna’s residents. the theresienbad     ­
                                                      siemens-sponsored study that rates the
      complex now emits 457 metric tons less          environmental performance of 30 of the
      co2 each year than before the energy up-        continent’s cities in the areas of sustain-
      grades. energy performance contracting          ability, natural resource use and commit-
      has also reduced energy consumption,            ment to environmentally sound practices.
      costs and co2 emissions at 23 public            although vienna achieved an admirable
      schools in vienna.                              fourth place, the study found potential for
                                                      improvement in the areas of carbon emis-
     in vienna, as in many cities, buildings          sions and air quality. vienna got the mes-
     ­account for the lion’s share of the energy      sage: the city’s first climate protection pro-
      consumed. as a result, mayor michael            gram reduced annual co2 emissions by 3.1
      häupl has set up a city-wide energy-effi-       million metric tons, and a second program
      ciency program in addition to implement-        is now aiming to cut another 1.4 million
      ing energy performance contracting solu-        tons a year by 2020. many of the planned
      tions for municipal properties. “we’re          initiatives are technology-driven: climate-
      promoting energy upgrades and thermal           neutral building construction, metro and
      insulation – which is one of my pet projects    tram cars that recover traction power, and
      because it means that more money stays in       electric buses for public transportation.
      people’s wallets,” he says.                       page 79




68

           1

               2



1 – located on the site of vienna’s
oldest public bath, the city’s
­theresienbad swimming pool com-
 plex is equipped with leading-edge
 technologies from siemens.

2 – carlotta and max enjoy a swim
at the theresienbad. the metro trip
to the pool is fast, comfortable and
ecofriendly.




                                       69

  making infrastructures more intelligent
              enhancing quality of life




florida
data center
                   wienit is the it service provider for vienna’s public utilities and all associated
                   enterprises, such as wien energie and wiener linien. and the demand for it
                   solutions on the part of wienit’s customers is booming – in part because infra­
                                                                                                                about   30%
                   structure solutions are becoming more and more intelligent. in 2013, wienit
                   completed its new floridsdorfer datacenter – florida for short – and siemens
                   delivered the facility’s systems and solutions for building management and power
                   distri­bution. in the future, florida will be operated with the help of a data center
                   infrastructure management (dcim) software solution. linking facility manage­
                   ment with it control, our innovative software integrates information from indi­
                   vidual data center areas that until now have often been operated separately. here,
                   too, the results are impressive: the installation of a cold aisle containment system
                   can increase the data center’s cooling efficiency by as much as 30%, thus enabling
                   it to achieve an efficiency level unmatched by other same-size facilities.



                         the
                         vienna
                         metro
                                            the viennese love their metro system. and thanks to state-of-
                                            the-art siemens technology, the system’s trains are very energy-­
                                            efficient and environmentally friendly. for example, when they
                                                                                                                  about   35%
                         system             brake, traction power is recovered and fed back into the metro’s
                                            power supply, cutting power consumption by 30%-35% compared
                                            to that of conventional metro systems – thus helping vienna
                                            conserve precious natural resources. we provide the bulk of the
                                            metro’s power supply equipment.




   70

                energy
               ­consumption
                at a glance
                                     vienna’s grid operator, wiener netze, intends to create 100%
                                     transparency for consumers and energy producers alike. plans
                                     call for equipping every household with a smart meter by 2020,
                                                                                                       100%
                                     enabling vienna’s residents to monitor their current energy
                                     consumption online and plan their future energy use. the data
                                     gathered will also allow wiener netze to forecast demand more
                                     accurately, plan its operations more efficiently and optimize
                                     grid expansion. our software solutions, which have already been
                                     implemented in more than 70 million smart meters around the
                                     world, are being used to record consumption data in this pilot
                                     project.




vienna’s
airport
           in the area of power supply and distribution, maximum
           efficiency can be achieved only if a system’s components,
           software and related services are optimally geared to one
                                                                          22 million
           another. vienna’s airport embraced this single-­source
           approach when expanding its power distribution system.
           our planning software, known as simaris design,
           supported the selection of the facility’s electrical equip­
           ment, most of which we also supplied, and ensured that
           the components worked together perfectly. our tech­
           nology is thus helping ensure the smooth operation of
           vienna’s airport, which accommodates some 22 million
           passengers each year.




                                                                                                              71

making infrastructures more intelligent
            enhancing quality of life




                                          “ the viennese want their public
                                            ­transportation to be attractive and
                                             comfortable.”
                                           dr. michael häupl has been the mayor of vienna since 1994.
                                           it’s not just the city ’s economy that has blossomed in recent
                                           decades. ranked one of the world’s most livable cities in inter­
                                           national surveys, the austrian capital has also attracted a
                                           large number of new residents. but the city isn’t resting on its
                                           laurels. to ensure continued development, systematic invest­
                                           ments are being made in intelligent infrastructure solutions.

                                           mayor häupl, what makes vienna so livable?
                                           dr. michael häupl : vienna is a mixture of grand classical traditions and high-
                                           tech innovations. the city stands for lifestyle and culture, on the one hand,
                                           and for business and science, on the other. the viennese are very hard-work-
                                           ing, but they also know how to enjoy life. maybe that’s what makes us a little
                                           different from other europeans: we work to live, we don’t live to work.


                                           according to a recent international study, vienna is the
                                           “smartest” major city in the world.
                                           dr. michael häupl : when i took office nearly 20 years ago, i saw it as my mission
                                           to turn vienna into a city of science, knowledge, research, innovation and
                                           technology. i consider our ranking as the “smartest” major city to be the fruit
                                           of our ongoing efforts to create intelligent solutions for our residents in v­ arious
72                                         areas – energy, public transportation and road traffic management.

in vienna,
strategic   39% of all travel is via public transportation,
          context
well above the average of 28% for the rest of europe’s cities.

our answers to
what’s your formula for success?
dr. michael häupl: we listen carefully to the wishes of our city’s residents, and


the challenges of
they want public transportation that not only runs frequently and on schedule
but is also attractive and comfortable. that’s long been part of who we are in
vienna. what’s more, we take the long view with our pricing policies: we sold

urbanization
an additional 100,000 annual passes simply by lowering the daily price to €1.


this report opens with a question: “more quality of life
or more economic growth?” is it possible to have both?
      percentage
dr. michael häupl: we  world
                    ofsee      population
                          it happening hereinincities,
                                                vienna,2011 and48%
                                                         where  2050
                                                                   of austria’s
tax revenue is generated. a flourishing economy is the basis for our success.
in the end, you can only have a high quality of life if there’s a very healthy
economic foundation.                                               ~ 70%
                    >                     + 20%
               50%city index gave vienna high marks
the siemens green
for sustainability but saw room for improvement in co2
emissions. what is vienna doing to protect the climate?
dr. michael häupl: our record isn’t so bad. vienna, a major metropolis,
                                                            total world has                            1          2
                                                                               population
       co2world
lower total                                                       butbillion
              emissions per capita than all the austrian states – 9.6  even that’s
      population
too high  for us. that’s why we’ve defined emission limits for all new and reno-
      7.2 billion
vated buildings and why we’re pushing alternative energy sources. i have high
hopes for even smarter technologies that will enhance traffic management,                          1 – dr. michael häupl has been the
                                                                                                   mayor of vienna since 1994. after
for example, or enable
                     2011
                          public transportation to run at more
                                                          2050
                                                               frequent intervals.                 completing his university studies in
but since our investment budget is limited, we also need creative financing                        zoology and biology, he began his
                                                                                                   career at vienna’s natural history
concepts – above all, ideas we can implement in cooperation with businesses.
                                                                                                   museum. from 1988 until his election
             total population in cities      total population in rural areas
                                                                                                   as mayor, dr. häupl headed the city’s
      source: un habitat
                                                                                                   office of environmental protection
what is the optimal energy mix for vienna?                                                         and sports.
dr. michael häupl: about 75% of the electricity we use is generated in vienna.
                                                                                                   2 – “aspern vienna’s urban lakeside”
in the
in 2011,  for the
       years             timegreatly
                   firstwe’ll
              ahead,           ever, the number
                                      expand      of people
                                              the amount   ofaround   thewe produce
                                                              electricity                          is one of the largest urban develop-
world  living  in urban    areas exceeded   the number  in rural areas
from hydroelectric, wind and solar sources. at the same time, we’ll      – introduce               ment projects in europe. the vienna
and  this  trend  is continuing.   increasing urbanization  and  its con-
smart grids, which will allow us to better balance fluctuating supplies of
                                                                                                   business agency, which, in keeping
                                                                                                   with its charter, provides support for
power with are
sequences          putting
              actual         strains on infrastructure systems world-
                       demand.                                                                     the city’s economic development, is
wide – infrastructures that are the backbone of economic growth                                    the project lead. one of the first
and prosperity. as a result, cities and companies that fail to invest                              buildings constructed in the commu-
what initiatives would you like to launch in vienna                                                nity was the aspern iq technology
in their infrastructures will quickly lose their competitiveness in a                              center, pictured above. the center is
in the coming
globalized   world. years?                                                                         home to aspern smart city research,
                                                                                                   a joint project of siemens, wien
dr. michael häupl: our city’s growing, and that’s a very good thing. we’re build-
                                                                                                   energie and wiener netze. the
andhousing
ing   that’s where   siemens
               and roads,   andcomes
                                 we want  in. with    our broad
                                              to safeguard         portfolio
                                                               vienna’s       and
                                                                           high  quality of life   project’s experts are looking for
decades   of  experience   and  expertise,     we’re   making   infrastructures
for future generations. one example of the initiatives we’ve launched is an                        ways to intelligently network
                                                                                                   environmental, energy and building
and
urbancities smarter, greener
        development              and more
                        project called   “asperncompetitive.     our products,
                                                    vienna’s urban      lakeside.” it’s a brand    technologies in order to promote
services  and   solutions   are  helping     customers
new community where a wide range of technological innovationsaround    the globe will ensure       sustainable urban development.
make   better
intelligent           their existing
               use ofdistribution
             power                 andinfrastructures,
                                         maximum energy     improve    efficiency,
                                                                efficiency.   our local power
cut        wienexpenses
    operating
provider,                    andour
                  energie, and     enhance      safety and
                                        grid operator,         resilience
                                                                     netze,while
                                                            wiener            are cooperating
with siemensenvironmental
minimizing                        impact.
                 in an accompanying                   it’s hereonthat
                                               and focused
                                           project                       our city networking
                                                                    intelligently
account   managers
infrastructure                  in ana environment
                       are playing
                technologies                              comprisingmunicipal
                                       vital role by supporting         housing, office space
decision-makers     worldwide
and commercial areas.            in the
                           another         criticalisplanning
                                      initiative      the viennaphase    of infra-
                                                                    municipal   utility’s public
platform projects.
structure  “wir denken wiener zukunft,” which translates as “we’re thinking
about vienna’s future.” in keeping with vienna’s smart city concept, the platform
we’re
providesaiming
          a venueto blaze  new trails
                    for discussing       withrelated
                                     topics     cutting-edge      infrastructure
                                                         to the city’s future development.
solutions. the following pages illustrate how we’re living up to
this aspiration in the areas of power supply, mobility, logistics
what contribution would you like to see siemens make to
and building technologies.
the future of vienna?
dr. michael häupl: siemens has had a profound influence on vienna ever since
the late 19th century and remains without a doubt the flagship of industry in our
city. i hope we can continue our joint projects in the areas of transportation and
energy as well as partnerships with universities in the field of healthcare. 73                                                             77
things are going well, but from my perspective, we could pick up the pace in
some areas.

making infrastructures more intelligent        power supply
            enhancing quality of life


                                               reliable and efficient
                                               power supply




                                                     automated grids are safeguarding the power supply




                                                communication

                                                                                                                     8
                                                                                                   5      6   7                          10        11
                                                                         2     3                                                  9
                                                              1



                                                                                                  4
                                                electricity


                                                     1 transformer stations   2 microgrids   3 smart electricity meters   4 power system control
                                                     5 meta data management        6 switchgear   7 energy storage   8 demand management


                                           “ the viennese want their public
                                                     9 power monitoring 10 traction power supply 11 consumption management




                                             transportation                   toforbe
                                              a reliable power supply is critical          attractive
                                                                                      economic                and
                                                                                                growth and energy

                                             comfortable.                ”
                                              security. but existing grids are often ill-equipped to meet the grow-
                                              ing demand for power, and the increasing share of fluctuating
                                               supplies from renewable sources are a further challenge. around
                                               the michael
                                              dr.             häupl
                                                   world, power        hascaused
                                                                  outages   been bythe   mayor
                                                                                      storms,      of vienna
                                                                                               overloads        since 1994.
                                                                                                          and aging
                                               infrastructure are   taking a
                                              it’s not just the city ’s economy that has blossomedand
                                                                             significant  toll on  households     in recent
                                               businesses alike. studies have found that storm-related power
                                              decades. ranked one of the world’s most livable cities in inter­
                                               outages cost the u.s. economy between €15 billion and €41 billion
                                               each year. surveys, the austrian capital has also attracted a
                                              national
                                              large number of new residents. but the city isn’t resting on its
                                              laurels.   to ensure
                                               our end-to-end             ensure thedevelopment,
                                                                       continued
                                                                solutions                                   distribu- invest­
                                                                                                        systematic
                                                                                     reliable and efficient
                                               tion of low- and medium-voltage    power.  in addition to switchgear,
                                              ments are being made in intelligent infrastructure solutions.
                                               distribution systems and protection and monitoring equipment, we
                                               also supply energy storage units for better integrating electricity
                                              mayor häupl, what makes vienna so livable?
                                               from renewables into power grids. our intelligent software solu-
                                               tions
                                              dr.    link power
                                                  michael                         mixture of grand
                                                                   vienna is a installations
                                                           häupl : distribution                        classical
                                                                                               to building  and traditions
                                                                                                                 industrial and high-
                                              tech  innovations.
                                               automation           theand
                                                             systems.          standsgrids
                                                                          city smart  for lifestyle
                                                                                           are also and       a keyon
                                                                                                          culture,
                                                                                                      playing           the
                                                                                                                     role in one hand,
                                              and  for distribution.
                                               power   business andour  science,  on the
                                                                            products  andother.        for smart are
                                                                                                  the viennese
                                                                                           solutions                  very
                                                                                                                  grids  arehard-work-
                                              ing, but they
                                               making         also know
                                                        it possible        how to enjoy
                                                                       to achieve         life.balance
                                                                                    a better    maybe that’s   whatenergy
                                                                                                                      makes us a little
                                                                                                         between
                                              different  from  other   europeans:    we work    to live, we don’t
                                               supply and demand by managing the bi-directional flow of power     live to work.
                                              and data between suppliers and consumers, even as more and
                                              according       recent
                                                         to aare
                                              more consumers                    power. study, vienna is the
                                                                       international
                                                                 also producing
                                              “smartest” major city in the world.
                                              dr. michael häupl : when i took office nearly 20 years ago, i saw it as my mission
                                             to turn vienna into a city of science, knowledge, research, innovation and
                                             technology. i consider our ranking as the “smartest” major city to be the fruit
                                             of our ongoing efforts to create intelligent solutions for our residents in various
72                                        74 areas – energy, public transportation and road traffic management.

         and39%
in vienna,
mobility         of all travel is via public transportation,
             logistics
well above the average of 28% for the rest of europe’s cities.
what’s your formula for success?
moving people and goods –
dr. michael häupl: we listen carefully to the wishes of our city’s residents, and
quickly,             safely,thatreliably
they want public transportation                          andand on schedule
                                       not only runs frequently
but is also attractive and comfortable. that’s long been part of who we are in
cost-effectively
vienna. what’s more, we take the long view with our pricing policies: we sold
an additional 100,000 annual passes simply by lowering the daily price to €1.


this report opens with a question: “more quality of life
or more economic growth?” is it possible to have both?
            häupl: weare
      it solutions
dr. michael               it happeningmobility
                      seeenhancing     here in vienna, where 48% of austria’s
tax revenue is generated. a flourishing economy is the basis for our success.
in the end, you can only have a high quality of life if there’s a very healthy
economic foundation.


the siemens green city index gave vienna high marks
for sustainability but saw room for improvement in co2
emissions. what is vienna doing to protect the climate?
dr. michael häupl: our record isn’t so bad. vienna, a major metropolis, has
 communication                                                                                                  1          2
lower co2 emissions per capita than all the austrian states – but even that’s
              1
too high for      us. that’s2
                                why we’ve
                                        3     defined
                                                4       emission
                                                           5
                                                                      limits for all new and10reno-
                                                                    6       7             9
vated buildings and why we’re pushing alternative energy sources. i have high
hopes for even smarter technologies that will enhance traffic                     8    management,          1 – dr. michael häupl has been the
                                                                                                            mayor of vienna since 1994. after
for example, or enable public transportation to run at more frequent intervals.                             completing his university studies in
 electricity
but since our investment budget is limited, we also need creative financing                                 zoology and biology, he began his
                                                                                                            career at vienna’s natural history
concepts     – above
       1 traffic          all,
                 signals and   ideas2we
                             controls     can
                                      level     implement
                                            crossings 3 vehicle in cooperation
                                                                devices             with
                                                                        and components    businesses.
                                                                                        4 tolling systems
                                                                                                            museum. from 1988 until his election
       5 integrated traffic management 6 interlockings and train control systems 7 eticketing               as mayor, dr. häupl headed the city’s
       8 driverless metro systems 9 commuter and high-speed trains 10 rail signalling and electrification   office of environmental protection
what is the optimal energy mix for vienna?                                                                  and sports.
dr. michael häupl: about 75% of the electricity we use is generated in vienna.
                                                                                                            2 – “aspern vienna’s urban lakeside”
    theyears
as the
in      world’s  population
              ahead,         continues
                      we’ll greatly     to boom,
                                    expand         trendsoflike
                                            the amount          increas-we produce
                                                             electricity                                    is one of the largest urban develop-
ing  globalization and urbanization   are creating an urgent    need
from hydroelectric, wind and solar sources. at the same time, we’ll   for introduce                         ment projects in europe. the vienna
mobility  solutions. today’s  transportation  systems  are  often  oper-
smart grids, which will allow us to better balance fluctuating supplies of
                                                                                                            business agency, which, in keeping
                                                                                                            with its charter, provides support for
powerbeyond
ating           capacity,
        with actual        negatively impacting people’s quality of
                     demand.                                                                                the city’s economic development, is
life. businesses too have an interest in finding solutions to these                                         the project lead. one of the first
challenges. each year, the price tag for traffic congestion is some                                         buildings constructed in the commu-
what initiatives would you like to launch in vienna                                                         nity was the aspern iq technology
€5.3 billion in the uk and about €74 billion in the u.s.                                                    center, pictured above. the center is
in the coming years?                                                                                        home to aspern smart city research,
urban   andhäupl:
              interurban   mobility   is being                                                              a joint project of siemens, wien
dr. michael          our city’s growing,         that’s a enhanced
                                            and greatly                by thewe’re build-
                                                           very good thing.                                 energie and wiener netze. the
     of intelligent,
use housing
ing                  automated
               and roads,   and we systems.
                                     want toand     it’s herevienna’s
                                                safeguard      that ourhigh
                                                                         infra-
                                                                             quality of life                project’s experts are looking for
structure   solutions   are  helping.   in  the  rail segment,    we   supply
for future generations. one example of the initiatives we’ve launched is an                                 ways to intelligently network
                                                                                                            environmental, energy and building
trains,  metros, locomotives,
urban development                 trams
                       project called     and light-rail
                                        “aspern   vienna’svehicles   for local it’s a brand
                                                            urban lakeside.”                                technologies in order to promote
and  long-distance    passenger    services   as well  as for
new community where a wide range of technological innovations logistics trans- will ensure                  sustainable urban development.
port.  rounding     out  these   offerings,   our  customized      hardware,
intelligent power distribution and maximum energy efficiency. our local power
software          energie,packages
           and service
provider, wien                         are optimizing
                            and our grid                  road, rail,
                                             operator, wiener         harbor
                                                                  netze,  are cooperating
withairport
and   siemens transportation    networks.
                 in an accompanying       project focused on intelligently networking
infrastructure technologies in an environment comprising housing, office space
and commercial areas. another initiative is the vienna municipal utility’s public
platform “wir denken wiener zukunft,” which translates as “we’re thinking
about vienna’s future.” in keeping with vienna’s smart city concept, the platform
provides a venue for discussing topics related to the city’s future development.


what contribution would you like to see siemens make to
the future of vienna?
dr. michael häupl: siemens has had a profound influence on vienna ever since
the late 19th century and remains without a doubt the flagship of industry in our
city. i hope we can continue our joint projects in the areas of transportation and
energy as well as partnerships with universities in the field of healthcare. 75                                                                      77
things are going well, but from my perspective, we could pick up the pace in
some areas.

making infrastructures more intelligent        building technologies
            enhancing quality of life


                                               effective heating, cooling,
                                               lighting and surveillance




                                                     increased efficiency, safety and competitiveness




                                                communication
                                                                                              4
                                                                                                                                    8   9
                                                                                          3   5         6
                                                                     2                                                7                     10
                                                                 1




                                                electricity


                                                     1 building automation systems 2 access control 3 remote surveillance
                                                     4 control and surveillance centers 5 sustainability and energy monitoring
                                                     6 building surveillance 7 evacuation 8 sensors 9 fire safety 10 data centers
                                           “ the viennese want their public
                                             transportation
                                              around the world, people want     becomfortable
                                                                           toto feel attractive          and
                                                                                               in their homes,

                                             comfortable.             ”
                                              workplaces and public spaces. and they want to live in energy-
                                              efficient, low-emission buildings – a daunting challenge, given
                                               that buildings today account for some 40% of worldwide energy
                                              dr.  michaeland
                                               consumption    häupl
                                                                  21% of  cobeen
                                                                        has          the mayor of vienna since 1994.
                                                                             2 emissions.

                                              it’s not just the city ’s economy that has blossomed in recent
                                               we’re a trusted technology partner for safe, energy-efficient,
                                              decades. ranked one of the world’s most livable cities in inter­
                                               ecofriendly building infrastructure. our integrated systems auto-
                                              national    surveys,
                                               mate the control        the austrian
                                                                  of heating,            capitallighting,
                                                                               air conditioning,    has also
                                                                                                           fireattracted
                                                                                                                safety   a
                                              large  number
                                               and security      of new
                                                            systems.       residents.
                                                                      by making          but
                                                                                  buildings    the citywe’re
                                                                                            intelligent, isn’thelping
                                                                                                               resting on its
                                              laurels.  to ensure
                                               ensure workplace        continued
                                                                   safety and businessdevelopment,       systematic
                                                                                          process security,  which in invest­
                                               turn promotes   entrepreneurial   productivity  and  competitiveness.
                                              ments are being made in intelligent infrastructure solutions.

                                              mayor häupl, what makes vienna so livable?
                                              dr. michael häupl : vienna is a mixture of grand classical traditions and high-
                                              tech innovations. the city stands for lifestyle and culture, on the one hand,
                                              and for business and science, on the other. the viennese are very hard-work-
                                              ing, but they also know how to enjoy life. maybe that’s what makes us a little
                                              different from other europeans: we work to live, we don’t live to work.


                                              according to a recent international study, vienna is the
                                              “smartest” major city in the world.
                                              dr. michael häupl : when i took office nearly 20 years ago, i saw it as my mission
                                             to turn vienna into a city of science, knowledge, research, innovation and
                                             technology. i consider our ranking as the “smartest” major city to be the fruit
                                             of our ongoing efforts to create intelligent solutions for our residents in various
72                                        76 areas – energy, public transportation and road traffic management.

in vienna, 39% of all travel is via public transportation,
well above the average of 28% for the rest of europe’s cities.
what’s your formula for success?
dr. michael häupl: we listen carefully to the wishes of our city’s residents, and
they want public transportation that not only runs frequently and on schedule
but is also attractive and comfortable. that’s long been part of who we are in
vienna. what’s more, we take the long view with our pricing policies: we sold
an additional 100,000 annual passes simply by lowering the daily price to €1.


this report opens with a question: “more quality of life
or more economic growth?” is it possible to have both?
dr. michael häupl: we see it happening here in vienna, where 48% of austria’s
tax revenue is generated. a flourishing economy is the basis for our success.
in the end, you can only have a high quality of life if there’s a very healthy
economic foundation.


the siemens green city index gave vienna high marks
for sustainability but saw room for improvement in co2
emissions. what is vienna doing to protect the climate?
dr. michael häupl: our record isn’t so bad. vienna, a major metropolis, has              1          2
lower co2 emissions per capita than all the austrian states – but even that’s
too high for us. that’s why we’ve defined emission limits for all new and reno-
vated buildings and why we’re pushing alternative energy sources. i have high
hopes for even smarter technologies that will enhance traffic management,            1 – dr. michael häupl has been the
                                                                                     mayor of vienna since 1994. after
for example, or enable public transportation to run at more frequent intervals.      completing his university studies in
but since our investment budget is limited, we also need creative financing          zoology and biology, he began his
                                                                                     career at vienna’s natural history
concepts – above all, ideas we can implement in cooperation with businesses.
                                                                                     museum. from 1988 until his election
                                                                                     as mayor, dr. häupl headed the city’s
                                                                                     office of environmental protection
what is the optimal energy mix for vienna?                                           and sports.
dr. michael häupl: about 75% of the electricity we use is generated in vienna.
                                                                                     2 – “aspern vienna’s urban lakeside”
in the years ahead, we’ll greatly expand the amount of electricity we produce        is one of the largest urban develop-
from hydroelectric, wind and solar sources. at the same time, we’ll introduce        ment projects in europe. the vienna
                                                                                     business agency, which, in keeping
smart grids, which will allow us to better balance fluctuating supplies of           with its charter, provides support for
power with actual demand.                                                            the city’s economic development, is
                                                                                     the project lead. one of the first
                                                                                     buildings constructed in the commu-
what initiatives would you like to launch in vienna                                  nity was the aspern iq technology
                                                                                     center, pictured above. the center is
in the coming years?                                                                 home to aspern smart city research,
                                                                                     a joint project of siemens, wien
dr. michael häupl: our city’s growing, and that’s a very good thing. we’re build-
                                                                                     energie and wiener netze. the
ing housing and roads, and we want to safeguard vienna’s high quality of life        ­project’s experts are looking for
for future generations. one example of the initiatives we’ve launched is an           ways to intelligently network
                                                                                      ­environmental, energy and building
urban development project called “aspern vienna’s urban lakeside.” it’s a brand        technologies in order to promote
new community where a wide range of technological innovations will ensure              sustainable urban development.
intelligent power distribution and maximum energy efficiency. our local power
provider, wien energie, and our grid operator, wiener netze, are cooperating
with siemens in an accompanying project focused on intelligently networking
infrastructure technologies in an environment comprising housing, office space
and commercial areas. another initiative is the vienna municipal utility’s public
platform “wir denken wiener zukunft,” which translates as “we’re thinking
about vienna’s future.” in keeping with vienna’s smart city concept, the platform
provides a venue for discussing topics related to the city’s future development.


what contribution would you like to see siemens make to
the future of vienna?
dr. michael häupl: siemens has had a profound influence on vienna ever since
the late 19th century and remains without a doubt the flagship of industry in our
city. i hope we can continue our joint projects in the areas of transportation and
energy as well as partnerships with universities in the field of healthcare.                                                  77
things are going well, but from my perspective, we could pick up the pace in
some areas.

making infrastructures more intelligent
            enhancing quality of life




                                             1

                                            2            3


                                          1 / 2 – austria’s progressive capital is
                                          one of the few cities in the world to
                                          deploy battery-powered electric buses
                                          in regular service. dr. georg ­freimüller
                                          never ceases to be amazed by how
                                          quiet and comfortable it is to ride the
                                          city’s 2a and 3a electric bus lines.

                                          3 – the freimüller-köhler family on
                                          the way to the karlsplatz metro
                                          ­station. from there, home is just a
78                                         short, comfortable metro ride away.

vienna is growing – and its quality
of life is increasing
                                                   energy savings with electric buses           25%
many viennese don’t realize it, although
they experience it every day: siemens is
                                                   zero-emission electric buses equipped
creating real quality of life in their city. one
prime example is the twelve zero-emission
                                                   with our drive technology consume
electric buses running on lines 2a and 3a
in the city center. in 2013, this very well-re-
                                                   some 25% less energy than diesel or
ceived electric fleet earned wiener linien
accolades that included the state prize for
                                                   ­natural-gas buses.
­mobility, the highest honor awarded by
 austria’s ministry of transport, innovation
 and technology. georg freimüller sees the
 buses as a crowning achievement for public        new ideas for energy-efficient urban infra-
 transportation in vienna. “the electric buses     structures on a community-wide level.
 are quiet, comfortable and fast – and they        working with siemens, we’ll test new types
 emit no carbon dioxide,” he says. thanks to       of links to the low-voltage grid and inte-
 our drive concept, the buses consume              grate schools, homes and offices in the
 some 25% less energy than diesel or natu-         power grid.”
 ral-gas buses. what’s more, the electric
 buses run on green electricity. about 75% of      vienna is a growing city that’s optimally
 the energy consumed in v       ­ ienna is pro-    equipped for the future. mayor michael
 duced in the city – at facilities which in-       häupl sees the aspern community and the
 clude one of europe’s largest biomass             research project with siemens as steps
 power plants. plans call for increasing the       clearly geared toward further enhancing
 share of renewables in the city’s energy mix      the city’s quality of life by introducing
 to 50% by 2030. and that target entails a         smart, automated infrastructure solutions:
 new set of challenges, since the amount of        “this isn’t just about building roads and
 energy derived from the wind and the sun          housing. we also want to ensure that future
 naturally fluctuates. reinhard brehmer, one       generations enjoy the same high quality of
 of the managing directors at grid operator        life that vienna has already achieved.”
 wiener netze, is already working on the
 solution. “to achieve a balance between              www.siemens.com/ar/report-ic

 supply and demand, we’re introducing                 www.siemens.com/ar/report-ic-movie

 smart grids in vienna,” he says. “a pilot proj-
 ect to test smart electricity meters and their
 integration into the grid is already under-
 way.” siemens is supplying the software
 that manages the consumption data – one
 more intelligent infrastructure solution for
 vienna.

a living laboratory for the city
of the future
wien energie, wiener netze and siemens
are working together on the smart infra-
structure of the future at a new community
called “aspern vienna’s urban lakeside.”
the new district, which is being developed
on the site of a former airfield, will be
home to 20,000 people and create 20,000
jobs by 2030. reinhard brehmer, who’s also
the managing director of aspern smart
city research, has high hopes for the “liv-
ing lab.” as he explains, “in aspern, we
have a unique o­ pportunity to try out smart                                                           79

      making visions a reality
             targeting actions




one siemens –
our framework for sustainable value creation

      energy efficiency, industrial produc­      questions and answers about our strategy
      tivity, next-generation healthcare and
      intelligent infrastructure solutions –     what are siemens’ goals?                       what was the basis for develop­
      these are the ­topics that define our                                                     ing the current strategy?
      actions and are pioneering fields for      we want to sustainably increase the value
      the future. the four reports on the pre­   of our company for all our stakeholders –      our company, our customers and our mar-
      ceding pages provide concrete exam­        for our shareholders, employees and cus-       kets are subject to both long-term trends
      ples of what we’re doing to make our       tomers as well as for society as a whole.      and short-term economic developments.
      vision a reality. they show how we’re                                                     demographic change, urbanization, climate
      acting sustainably, leveraging busi­                                                      change and globalization are megatrends
      ness opportunities and mastering the       how is our company strategy                    that entail major challenges for policymak-
      challenges we face.                        structured?                                    ers, entrepreneurs and scientists around the
                                                                                                world. at the same time, however, they of-
      our strategy points the way: with clear    we’ve formulated strategic perspectives for    fer tremendous business opportunities that
      financial targets, strategic directions    different timeframes. the basis is our long-   we intend to rigorously exploit. we also con-
      and concrete focus areas. how do           term vision: “siemens – the pioneer in         sider economic development forecasts, ob-
      these elements interlock? where do         ­
                                                 energy efficiency, industrial productivity,    serve our competitive environment and
      we currently stand? and what are the       next‑generation healthcare and intelligent     leverage our particular strengths as a tech-
      next steps? the following pages pro­       infrastructure solutions.” based on this vi-   nology company. to be viable, our strategy
      vide the answers.                          sion, we’re steering the company with a        must be consistent with the values es-
                                                 medium-term strategy. our one siemens          poused by siemens and build on our com-
          www.siemens.com/strategy               framework concretizes this strategy. within    pany’s long tradition of success.
          www.siemens.com/one-siemens            this company-wide strategic setup, we for-
          c.1.3 strategy on pages 170-172        mulate business strategies for the various
                                                 markets.




 80

what strategy is siemens pursu­                  a
                                                 ­ nnual report is for the first time a com-     how is the strategy put
ing to reach its goals?                          bined annual and sustainability report is       into practice at siemens?
                                                 further proof of our overarching under-
we’re gearing our efforts to what we call        standing of sustainability.                     our report on the modernization of the
our three strategic directions: focus on inno-                                                   ­kirishi power plant       on pages 4-21 illus-

vation-driven growth markets; get closer to                                                       trates how we’re implementing our strat-
our customers; and use the power of              how does the strategy address                    egy. siemens is a pioneer in the market for
siemens. each of these directions is broken      changes in markets?                              combined-cycle power plants – a market
down into three focus areas that have tre-                                                        that is thriving thanks to the development
mendous potential for achieving a sustain-       to continuously occupy leading market and        of advanced technologies – and has been
able increase in siemens’ value. for exam-       technology positions, unrelenting efforts        continuously boosting the efficiency of gas-
ple, we’re expanding our service business        and perseverance are required. pioneering        based power generation for years. the
and encouraging lifelong learning and de-        topics in research and development, for ex-      plant’s upgraded unit 6 combusts natural
velopment among our employees.                   ample, often bear fruit only after years. at     gas with record efficiency while producing
                                                 the same time, changes are taking place in       less environmentally harmful carbon diox-
                                                 ever-shorter cycles. that’s why we continu-      ide than its predecessors. that’s typical of
is siemens following a separate                  ally monitor and evaluate the impact on our      the products in our environmental portfolio.
sustainability strategy?                         business of new developments in the econ-        and the twelve-year service contract we
                                                 omy, technology and society. new opportu-        landed for kirishi is an exemplary success
sustainability and business success are two      nities are currently arising, such as the en-    story in the strategic focus area that aims at
sides of the same coin for us, as we’ve al-      ergy transition in germany, the new natural      expanding our service business.
ready showcased in numerous examples in          gas extraction boom in the u.s. and the
this report. siemens is sustainably man-         rapidly growing demand for affordable
aged. that’s why we’ve consciously de-           healthcare in the emerging markets. be­         how does siemens measure
cided not to formulate a separate sustain-       ginning in fiscal 2013, our company-wide        the success of its strategy?
ability strategy, since our company strategy     siemens 2014 program has been support-
is already geared to making long-term            ing our one siemens framework – thus            we measure our success primarily in terms
progress in terms of profitability, the envi-    empowering us to recapture a leading            of the development of the key financial fig-
ronment and society. the fact that this          competitive position.                           ures for revenue growth, capital efficiency
                                                                                                 and profitability as well as for capital struc-
                                                                                                 ture. for further information, please see
                                                                                                     c.2 financial performance system on

                                                                                                 pages 173-178 of this annual report.
                                                                                                                                                   81

     making visions a reality
            targeting actions




           strategic direction


                 focus on innovation-driven growth markets




      throughout history, many of our business successes have been closely linked with pioneering
      ­technological achievements. harnessing our creativity and spirit of invention, we want to continue
       capturing, maintaining and expanding our leading positions in innovation-driven growth markets.
       where necessary, we’re strengthening siemens’ portfolio. our environmental portfolio is an
     ­example of how we’re systematically leveraging the opportunities provided by sustainable business
      activities in growth markets.




     be a pioneer in                                 strengthen our portfolio                           provide a leading
     ­technology-driven markets                                                                         environmental portfolio

     for generations, innovative siemens engi-       to achieve sustainable, profitable growth,         our environmental portfolio serves as an
     neers have been conquering new markets          we keep our business activities focused on         example of how we strive to align our busi-
     and tapping growth fields. with this special    particularly attractive future markets. active     ness activities with ­major trends of our times,
     strength, we want to continue achieving         portfolio management – based on the prin-          in this case climate change. in addition to its
     leading positions in new business fields        ciple that all our businesses should capture       environmental benefits, our environmental
     characterized by growth and technological       and maintain no. 1 or no. 2 positions in           port­folio enables us to compete successfully
     innovation. we’re strengthening our power       their respective markets – is a key part of        in attractive markets and generate profit-
     of innovation by leveraging synergies           our focus. why? because leading market po-         able growth. in fiscal 2013, revenue from
     worldwide and increasingly utilizing exter-     sitions are a prerequisite for profitability and   continuing operations from the environ-
     nal expertise. more than 1,000 cooperative      growth and enable us to sustainably in-            mental portfolio amounted to €32.3 billion,
     research projects with universities, research   crease siemens’ value. as our company’s            which accounted for 43% of our revenue in
     institutes and industry partners are already    history proves, size is not the only driver of     this fiscal year. technologies from our en­
     enabling us to gain valuable knowledge for      success. often siemens has been most suc-          vironmental portfolio enabled customers
     our future business.                            cessful when we’ve been at the forefront of        worldwide to slash their co2 emissions by
                                                     technological innovation.                          377 million m­ etric tons in fiscal 2013, which
                                                                                                        is the equivalent of the following twelve cit-
                                                                                                        ies’ combined yearly emissions: berlin, cape
                                                                                                        town, london, los angeles, melbourne,
                                                                                                        mexico city, moscow, new york city, são
                                                                                                        paulo, seoul, singapore and tokyo.




82

          strategic direction


              get closer to our customers




siemens is close to its customers throughout the world. while maintaining our strong position in our
established markets, we want to expand our position in the world’s rapidly growing emerging coun­
tries. to build strong partnerships in these new markets, it’s necessary to expand local development
and production capacities and create solutions tailored to regional requirements. in the emerging as
in the industrialized countries, the important factors for success are outstanding innovative services
and rigorous customer orientation.




grow in emerging markets                        expand our service business                     intensify our customer focus


we want to be present in attractive markets     we want to be the supplier of choice for all    many of our successful products and solu-
worldwide and participate in the enormous       follow-up investments. that’s why we offer      tions are developed in close cooperation
economic expansion now taking place in          perfect services as well as perfect products.   with our customers. proceeding from an in-
the emerging countries, where we’ve al-         our local service employees, who – in many      depth understanding of their unique re-
ready achieved strong growth over the past      cases – have been fulfilling their customers’   quirements, our employees all around the
few years. in those countries the demand        needs and requirements for decades, are         world create tailored solutions for our cus-
for economical products and entry-level         one of our greatest assets. by expanding our    tomers. that’s why we invest in the ongoing
solutions is intensifying. we’re addressing     service business, we want to increase cus-      training of our consultants and engineers.
this demand through our smart initiative.       tomer loyalty. and it’s here that our val-      it’s also why we’ve set up consulting for
we’re increasingly offering entry-level prod-   ue-added services are making a contribu-        large customers in a way that enables them
ucts that are simple, maintenance-friendly,     tion. going beyond conventional product         to obtain everything they need from a
affordable, reliable and timely-to-market.      services, we apply the knowledge we’ve          ­single source – the whole range of prod-
                                                gained in our product and solutions busi-        ucts, solutions and services offered by our
                                                ness to advise our customers effectively and     technology company. in a nutshell: we’re
                                                accurately. all in all, more service business    enhancing our reputation as a strong local
                                                can enable us to generate steadier revenue       partner by providing consulting with added
                                                and leverage new potential for profitable        value and by reacting quickly and flexibly
                                                growth.                                          to local market requirements.




                                                                                                                                               83

     making visions a reality
            targeting actions




           strategic direction


                   use the power of siemens


     highly qualified employees have always been the key to our success. for this reason, every siemens
     employee can and should continuously expand his or her knowledge. it’s cooperative partnerships
     among men and women from different countries and cultural backgrounds that deliver the best out­
     comes. we at siemens draw great strength from such partnerships – a strength that is also based
     on a clear and unambiguous commitment to integrity. our work is guided by binding principles to
     which we also expect our customers and suppliers to adhere.




     encourage lifelong learning                       empower our diverse and                          stand for integrity
     and development                                   engaged people worldwide

     our employees have been the driving force         siemens is a company with a strong inter-        siemens is committed to fair competition. in
     behind innovation for 166 years. their ex-        national orientation. people from some 140       our drive to succeed on the world’s markets,
     pertise, abilities and passion will continue to   countries work at our ten largest regional       we aim to comply with all applicable laws
     advance siemens in the future. our highly         companies alone. collaboration in multifac-      and regulations. therefore, the actions of
     developed culture of lifelong learning gives      eted teams has proven to be a powerful           our employees are guided by transparent
     them the tools they need: all around the          source of inspiration. working together,         and binding principles of ethical entrepre-
     world and at all levels of our organization,      people from different backgrounds and with       neurial behavior. a clear and unequivocal
     we directly foster not only our people’s          a broad range of skills, experiences and         opposition to corruption is a further corner-
     knowhow but also their pioneering spirit,         qualifications can generate a wealth of to-      stone of our company culture. to the best
     initiative and their willingness to assume        tally new ideas. this is how we understand       of our ability, we fulfill our responsibilities to
     increasing responsibility.                        diversity, and we foster it in every possible    the environment, society and our employ-
                                                       context. we regularly conduct employee           ees and thus use the power of siemens,
                                                       surveys to find out where we can further         while meeting the highest standards of oc-
                                                       enhance our company’s processes. the re-         cupational safety and health management.
                                                       sults of these surveys, which are conducted
                                                       in 40 languages worldwide, provide us with
                                                       valuable input that we systematically exploit.




84

      financial targets

          revenue growth growth > most relevant competitors

 capital efficiency / profitability return on capital employed / top margins throughout business cycles

                           capital structure adjusted industrial net debt / adjusted ebitda



we want to outpace our competitors over the long term and set the standards for operational and
financial excellence in our industries. we measure and compare the success of our development
on the basis of a target system that defines indicators for revenue growth, capital efficiency and
profitability as well as for the optimization of our capital structure. our goal is to sustainably
increase siemens’ value.




revenue growth                                  capital efficiency                               capital structure
                                                and profitability

the most important driver for sustainably       our aim is to be profitable and to use the       sustainable profit and revenue growth can
increasing our company’s value is profitable    capital provided by our shareholders and         be achieved only on the basis of a healthy
revenue growth. our concrete goal is to         lenders as efficiently as possible. we mea-      capital structure. therefore, in addition to
achieve revenue growth that exceeds that        sure our capital efficiency in terms of return   our metrics for operations, we’ve defined a
of our key competitors; to assess our perfor-   on capital employed (roce (adjusted)).           yardstick for managing our capital struc-
mance we compare our average revenue            simply expressed, this indicator is defined      ture: the ratio of adjusted industrial net debt
growth with theirs. we have also estab-         as income from continuing operations be-         to adjusted ebitda. we intend to further
lished strict criteria for acquisitions.        fore interest divided by average capital em-     optimize this ratio in order to better regulate
                                                ployed. we’ve set an ambitious target of         our debt-to-equity ratio. we’re also aiming
                                                15% to 20% for capital efficiency throughout     to ensure unlimited access to debt financing
                                                siemens.                                         instruments in the capital markets as well as
                                                                                                 the servicing of our financial obligations.
                                                at the sector level, we want to continuously
                                                achieve top ebitda margins compared to
                                                those of the best competitors in our indus-
                                                tries – throughout business cycles.              for further information on our framework
                                                                                                 for sustainable value creation, please see
                                                                                                     c.1.3 strategy on pages 170-172 and

                                                                                                     c.2 financial performance system on

                                                                                                 pages 173-178 of this annual report.




                                                                                                                                                   85

          company report 2013




                 energy solutions




                           healthcare solutions




                                                  industry solutions



infrastructure solutions



                                                                       company strategy

                             financial report 2013




     to our shareholders




                                  corporate governance




combined ­management report


                                consolidated ­financial statements




    additional ­information

     key figures fiscal 2013 1, 2

          volume




                                                                                                                                                  % change                           further
                                                                                                   fy 2013          fy 2012          actual       adjusted 3                    information
     continuing operations
     orders                                                              in millions of €          82,351          75,939               8%             10%                       page 179
     revenue                                                             in millions of €          75,882          77,395             (2)%            (1)%                       page 179




          profitability and capital efficiency




                                                                                                                                                                                     further
                                                                                                    fy 2013         fy 2012                       % change                      information
     total sectors
     adjusted ebitda                                                     in millions of €            8,141           9,329                           (13)%                       page 190
     total sectors profit                                                in millions of €            5,788           7,266                           (20)%                       page 190
       in % of revenue (total sectors)                                                 in %             7.5             9.3
     continuing operations
     adjusted ebitda                                                     in millions of €            8,215           9,613                           (15)%                       page 190
     income from continuing operations                                   in millions of €            4,212           4,642                            (9)%                       page 181
     basic earnings per share 4                                                        in €           4.85            5.15                            (6)%                       page 326
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                                      in %           13.8            15.5                                                       page 173
     continuing and discontinued operations
     net income                                                          in millions of €            4,409           4,282                              3%                       page 181
     basic earnings per share 4                                                        in €           5.08            4.74                              7%                       page 182
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                                      in %           13.5            13.1                                                       page 173




          capital structure and liquidity




                                                                                                                                                                                     further
                                                                                                      september 30, 2013               september 30, 2012                       information
     cash and cash equivalents                                           in millions of €                            9,190                         10,891                        page 204
     total equity (shareholders of siemens ag)                           in millions of €                          28,111                          30,855                        page 206
     adjusted industrial net debt                                        in millions of €                            2,805                           2,271                       page 193

                                                                                                                                                                                     further
                                                                                                                    fy 2013                         fy 2012                     information
     continuing operations
     free cash flow                                                      in millions of €                            5,257                           4,727                       page 196
     continuing and discontinued operations
     free cash flow                                                      in millions of €                            5,328                           4,700                       page 196




          1 orders; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and    of the most directly comparable ifrs financial measures,      our investor relations website under
             orders; total sectors profit; roce (adjusted); free cash   information regarding the usefulness of siemens’ supple­        www.siemens.com/nongaap .
             flow; adjusted ebitda; adjusted industrial net debt are    mental financial measures, the limitations associated
                                                                                                                                   2 october 1, 2012 – september 30, 2013.
             or may be non-gaap financial measures. definitions         with these measures and reconciliations to the most
             of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion     comparable ifrs financial measures are available on        3 adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.
88

        orders – continuing operations (in millions of €)
 fy 2013              82,351
                                                                                           10% 3                                                                                               further
 fy 2012              75,939                                                                                                                        fy 2013         fy 2012               information
 revenue generated by the environmental portfolio 1                                                                         in billions of €           32.3           32.7                page 218
    in % of revenue from continuing operations                                                                                            in %            43            42




      d. e.
 research and development expenses 1                                                                                        in billions of €             4.3            4.2               page 213
       revenue
    in %         – continuing
         of revenue           operations
                    from continuing operations
                                          (in millions of €)                                                                              in %           5.7            5.5
 fy           75,882
    2013 and development
 research                employees 1, 2                                                                                         in thousands           29.8           29.5                page 213
                                                                                           (1)% 3
 fy 2012 1, 3
 inventions           77,395                                                                                                    in thousands             8.4            8.8               page 213




                                                                                                                                                                                                               contents financial report
 patent first filings 1, 4                                                                                                      in thousands             4.0            4.6               page 213




                                                                                                                                                                    key to references
        income from continuing operations (in millions of €)                                                                                                            reference within
     consolidated
 fy 2013   4,212                                                         additional                                                                                     the publication
                                                                                (9)%                                                                                                      further
           4,642 statements
     financial
 fy 2012                                                                 information                                                                fy 2013             reference to information
                                                                                                                                                                    fy 2012          an
 accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions                                                             in millions of                          external publication
 generated by elements from the environmental portfolio 1                                                                         metric tons           377            333                page 218
                                                                                                                                                                         reference to the
254
 energyd.1    consolidated
        efficiency improvementstatements         358 in e.1
                                 compared to baseline              responsibility
                                                           fiscal 2010  1              statement                                          in %              4             8
                                                                                                                                                                         company reportpage 220
      basic earnings
              of incomeper share –
       efficiency improvement
 wastecontinuing                compared
                   operations (in €)4     to baseline  in fiscal 2010 1
                                                                                                                                          in %              4             7               page 220
                                                                                                                                                                         reference to the
 waste for disposal4.85
                                                 359 e.2 independent
                    reduction compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1                                                                       in %              7             8            page 220
 fy 2013                                                                                                                                                                 internet
255    d.2 consolidated       statements                           auditorʼs
                                                                          (6)%  report
 fy 2012 dioxide
 carbon          emission            improvement compared to baseline
                    5.15 efficiency income                                  in fiscal 2010 1                                              in %            13            13                page 220
              of comprehensive
                                                 361 e.3 statement of the
256 d.3 consolidated statements                                    managing board
              of financial position
      roce (adjusted) – continuing operations362   (in %) e.4      five-year summary
257    d.4
 fy 2013      consolidated
                    13.8      statements
 fy 2012
              of cash
                    15.5
                        flows                    364 e.5 glossary

258 d.5           consolidated statements                        366 e.6            index
                target corridor: 15 – 20%
                  of changes in equity                                                                                                              sep. 30,        sep. 30,                   further
                                                                 368 e.7            company structure                                                  2013            2012               information
260    d.6 notes
 total employees     to consolidated
                 – continuing operations                                                                                        in thousands            362            366                page 222
             financial   statements                              370 e.8            further information and
    europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east
                 5
                                                                                                                                in thousands            220            222                page 222
       therein germany                                                              information resources                       in thousands            118            119                page 222
348 d.7 adjusted industrial net debt/
                  supervisory board and
       adjusted
    asia, australiaebitda – continuing operations (in millions of €)5                                                           in thousands              64            63                page 222
                  managing board                                 371 e.9            financial calendar
    2013
 fyamericas              0.34                                                                                                   in thousands              78            81                page 222
 total employees –0.24
 fy 2012          continuing and discontinued operations                                                                        in thousands            367            410

                                                                                                                                                                                               further
                target corridor: 0.5 – 1.0%                                                                                                         fy 2013         fy 2012               information
 employee turnover rate 6, 7                                                                                                              in %         10.8           10.7                page 221
     free
 female   cash flow
        employees in –management
                       continuing positions
                                  operations(percentage   ofof
                                               (in millions  all€)management positions) 6, 8                                              in %         15.6           15.3                page 221
 expenses       5,257 education 6, 9
 fy 2013 for continuing                                                                                                    in millions of €             265            283                page 221
                                                                                             11%
 expenses      4,727 for continuing education 6, 9
 fy 2012 per employee                                                                                                                     in €          670            693                page 221




4 basic
  first filings
         earningsas part
                     per of inventions
                                – attributable
                         share                 to shareholders
                                        submitted   to                7 employee
                                                                of siemens   ag.     turnover rate is defined as the ratio of        8   employees in management positions include
  patent
  for       offices.
       fiscal  2013 and 2012 weighted average shares outstanding (basic) voluntary and involuntary exits from siemens during             all managers with disciplinary responsibility,
  (in thousands)     amounted    to 843,819  and   876,053 shares,       the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
                                                                    respectively.                                                        plus project managers.
5 commonwealth of independent states.
5 calculated by     dividing  adjusted  industrial net debt as of september 30,                                                      9   without travel expenses.
6 continuing     and  discontinued   operations.
  2013 and 2012 by adjusted ebitda.                                                                                89                                                                               91   101

     key figures fiscal 2013 1, 2

          volume                                                                                          customers and innovation


                                                                                                          revenue generated by the environmental portfolio
                                                                                                          (in billions of €)1
                                                                                                   fy 2013                32.3                      % change                           further
                                                                                                   fy
                                                                                                    fy2012
                                                                                                       2013               32.7
                                                                                                                      fy 2012          actual       adjusted 3                    information
     continuing operations
     orders                                                               in millions of €          82,351           75,939               8%             10%                       page 179
     revenue                                                              in millions of €          75,882           77,395             (2)%             (1)%                      page 179
                                                                                                          patent first filings (in thousands)1, 4
                                                                                                   fy 2013                  4.0
                                                                                                   fy 2012                  4.6




          profitability and capital efficiency                                                            environment

                                                                                                          accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon
                                                                                                          dioxide emissions generated by elements from
                                                                                                          the environmental portfolio (in millions of metric tons)1
                                                                                                   fy 2013                 377
                                                                                                                                                                                       further
                                                                                                   fy
                                                                                                    fy2012
                                                                                                       2013                333
                                                                                                                      fy 2012                       % change                      information
     total sectors
     adjusted ebitda                                                      in millions of €            8,141           9,329                            (13)%                       page 190
     total sectors profit                                                 in millions of €            5,788       7,266
                                                                                                         energy efficiency              (20)%
                                                                                                                           improvement compared                                    page 190
       in % of revenue (total sectors)                                                  in %             7.5         9.3fiscal 2010 (in %)1
                                                                                                         to baseline in
     continuing operations                                                                         fy 2013                     4
     adjusted ebitda                                                      in millions of €         fy8,215
                                                                                                      2012            9,613 8                          (15)%                       page 190
     income from continuing operations                                    in millions of €            4,212           4,642                              (9)%                      page 181
     basic earnings per share 4                                                         in €            4.85            5.15                             (6)%                      page 326
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                                       in %            13.8            15.5                                                       page 173
     continuing and discontinued operations                                                               employees
     net income                                                           in millions of €            4,409           4,282                                3%                      page 181
     basic earnings per share 4                                                         in €            5.08            4.74                               7%                      page 182
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                                       in %            13.5            13.1                                                       page 173
                                                                                                          employee turnover rate (in %)6, 7
                                                                                                   fy 2013                10.8
                                                                                                   fy 2012                10.7
          capital structure and liquidity


                                                                                                          female employees in management positions
                                                                                                          (percentage of all management positions)6, 8
                                                                                                   fy 2013                15.6
                                                                                                                                                                                       further
                                                                                                   fy 2012           15.3
                                                                                                      september 30, 2013                 september 30, 2012                       information
     cash and cash equivalents                                            in millions of €                            9,190                          10,891                        page 204
     total equity (shareholders of siemens ag)                            in millions of €                           28,111                          30,855                        page 206
     adjusted industrial net debt                                         in millions of €                            2,805                            2,271                       page 193
                                                                                                          expenses per employee for continuing education (in €)6, 9
                                                                                                                                                                                       further
                                                                                                   fy 2013                670
                                                                                                                     fy 2013                          fy 2012                     information
     continuing operations                                                                         fy 2012                 693
     free cash flow                                                       in millions of €                            5,257                            4,727                       page 196
     continuing and discontinued operations
     free cash flow                                                       in millions of €                            5,328                            4,700                       page 196




          1   orders; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and                                     1 continuing
                                                                         of the most directly comparable ifrs             operations.
                                                                                                              financial measures,        our investor relations website under
              orders; total sectors profit; roce (adjusted); free cash   information regarding the usefulness of siemens’
                                                                                                          2 average        supple-
                                                                                                                      number   of employeeswww.siemens.com/nongaap
                                                                                                                                             in fiscal year.                   .
              flow; adjusted ebitda; adjusted industrial net debt are    mental financial measures, the limitations associated
                                                                                                          3   number  of inventions   2 october
                                                                                                                                    reported by the1,business
                                                                                                                                                      2012 – september
                                                                                                                                                              units in an  30, 2013.
                                                                                                                                                                          internal report.
              or may be non-gaap financial measures. definitions         with these measures and reconciliations to the most
              of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion     comparable ifrs financial measures are available on          3 adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.
88                                                                                90

                                                                                                                                                                                 further
                                                                                                                                      fy 2013         fy 2012               information
    revenue generated by the environmental portfolio 1                                                        in billions of €           32.3           32.7                page 218
      in % of revenue from continuing operations                                                                            in %            43            42




        d. e.
    research and development expenses 1                                                                       in billions of €             4.3            4.2               page 213
      in % of revenue from continuing operations                                                                            in %           5.7            5.5
    research and development employees 1, 2                                                                       in thousands           29.8           29.5                page 213
    inventions 1, 3                                                                                               in thousands             8.4            8.8               page 213




                                                                                                                                                                                                 contents financial report
    patent first filings 1, 4                                                                                     in thousands             4.0            4.6               page 213




                                                                                                                                                      key to references
                                                                                                                                                          reference within
         consolidated                                         additional                                                                                  the publication
                                                                                                                                                                            further
         financial statements                                 information                                                             fy 2013             reference to information
                                                                                                                                                      fy 2012          an
    accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions                                            in millions of                          external publication
    generated by elements from the environmental portfolio 1                                                        metric tons           377            333                page 218
                                                                                                                                                           reference to the
254   d.1
 energy       consolidated
        efficiency improvementstatements         358 in e.1
                                compared to baseline              responsibility
                                                          fiscal 2010 1          statement                                  in %              4             8
                                                                                                                                                           company reportpage 220
              of income
 waste efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1                                                         in %              4             7               page 220
                                                                                                                                                           reference to the
                                                 359 e.2 independent
 waste for disposal reduction compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1                                                         in %              7             8            page 220
                                                                                                                                                           internet
255 d.2 consolidated statements                                   auditorʼs report
 carbon dioxide emission efficiency improvement compared to baseline in fiscal 2010 1                                       in %            13            13                page 220
              of comprehensive income
                                                 361 e.3 statement of the
256 d.3 consolidated statements                                   managing board
              of financial position
                                                 362 e.4 five-year summary
257 d.4 consolidated statements
              of cash flows                      364 e.5 glossary

258 d.5               consolidated statements           366 e.6          index
                      of changes in equity                                                                                            sep. 30,        sep. 30,                   further
                                                        368 e.7          company structure                                               2013            2012               information
260    d.6 notes
 total employees     to consolidated
                 – continuing operations                                                                          in thousands            362            366                page 222
             financial   statements                     370 e.8          further information and
      europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east
                 5
                                                                                                                  in thousands            220            222                page 222
         therein germany                                                 information resources                    in thousands            118            119                page 222
348 d.7               supervisory board and
      asia, australia                                                                                             in thousands              64            63                page 222
                      managing board                    371 e.9          financial calendar
      americas                                                                                                    in thousands              78            81                page 222
    total employees – continuing and discontinued operations                                                      in thousands            367            410

                                                                                                                                                                                 further
                                                                                                                                      fy 2013         fy 2012               information
    employee turnover rate 6, 7                                                                                             in %         10.8           10.7                page 221
    female employees in management positions (percentage of all management positions) 6, 8                                  in %         15.6           15.3                page 221
    expenses for continuing education 6, 9                                                                   in millions of €             265            283                page 221
    expenses per employee for continuing education 6, 9                                                                     in €          670            693                page 221




4    first filings as part of inventions submitted to   7   employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of          8   employees in management positions include
     patent offices.                                        voluntary and involuntary exits from siemens during            all managers with disciplinary responsibility,
                                                            the fiscal year to the average number of employees.            plus project managers.
5    commonwealth of independent states.
                                                                                                                       9   without travel expenses.
6    continuing and discontinued operations.
                                                                                                                                                                                      91   101

                 fiscal
     key figuresa.1     2013to1, 2our shareholders
                     letter

           volume




                                                                                                                                                    % change                            further
                                                                                                     fy 2013          fy 2012            actual     adjusted 3                     information
     continuing operations
     orders                                                                in millions of €          82,351          75,939                8%            10%                        page 179
     revenue                                                               in millions of €          75,882          77,395              (2)%            (1)%                       page 179
                                  berlin and munich, november 27, 2013




           profitability and capital efficiency
                            for the first time, i’m addressing you as the president and ceo of your company.
                            i’ve been at this wonderful organization for 33 years now. leading siemens today
                            is not only an enormous task; it is also a mission that i embrace with respect and
                            dedication. the fact that millions of people benefit every day from infrastructures                                                                         further
                            supported by siemens technologies is an inspiration fy 2013 andfy
                                                                                            an2012             % change
                                                                                                obligation as well as a                                                            information
     total sectors          source of pride. what siemens can do, and what siemens does, is relevant to people
     adjusted ebitda        all around the world, whetherinourmillions of €
                                                                  customers,     8,141 employees
                                                                                users,      9,329 or shareholders.(13)%                                                             page 190
     total sectors profit                                  in millions of €      5,788      7,266                 (20)%                                                             page 190
                            siemens stands for the electrification of the world. digitization and automation
       in % of revenue (total sectors)
                            are transforming this value chain – and       offering 7.5
                                                                       in %                    9.3
                                                                                    us major opportunities.
     continuing operations
     adjusted ebitda                                                       in millions of €            8,215           9,613                           (15)%                        page 190
                             i’m well aware of the importance of this task and of the tremendous responsibility
     income from continuing operations                      in millions of €  4,212      4,642                 (9)%                                                                 page 181
                             i now also have for our more than 360,000 employees. let me assure you of one
     basic earnings per share 4                                          in €  4.85       5.15                 (6)%                                                                 page 326
                             thing: siemens will continue to be guided by the values for which we’ve always
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                       in %   13.8       15.5                                                                                      page 173
                             stood − innovation, quality, reliability and engineering excellence. this will remain
     continuing and discontinued operations
                             so in the future, and sustainability and responsibility will continue to inform our
     net income                                             in millions of €  4,409      4,282                   3%                                                                 page 181
                             actions. these values have made us strong throughout our 166-year history, and our
     basic earnings per share 4                                          in €  5.08       4.74                   7%                                                                 page 182
                             commitment to them will endure beyond the present and into the future.
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                                        in %           13.5            13.1                                                        page 173

                         many things at siemens are going well – some, even very well. many of our busi-
                         nesses are very well positioned and poised for long-term success, as examples
           capital structure and liquidity
                         presented in this annual report show. this year, for the first time, the report also
                         includes our sustainability report, in which we clearly formulate our commit-
                         ment to the aims of the united nations global compact. the annual report provides
                         a detailed account of a quite turbulent and eventful fiscal year in which there was
                         much light but also some shadow.                                                                                                                               further
                                                                                                        september 30, 2013                september 30, 2012                       information
     cash and cash equivalents                            in millions
                            at €75.9 billion, revenue was 1%                           9,190
                                                              belowofthe
                                                                      € prior-year level.                 10,891
                                                                                          new orders climbed to                                                                     page 204
     total equity (shareholders of siemens ag)                             in millions of €                          28,111                           30,855                        page 206
                          €82.4 billion, a substantial 10% gain. our order backlog now totals €100 billion.
     adjusted industrial net debt
                          finally, income from continuing      operations amounted to2,805
                                                         in millions of €                                   2,271
                                                                                       €4.2 billion, including                                                                      page 193

                          transformation costs of €1.3 billion related to our siemens 2014 productivity pro-                                                                            further
                                                                                   fy 2013                 fy 2012                                                                 information
                          gram and an extraordinary gain in connection with the divestment of our shares
     continuing operations
                          in nokia siemens networks (nsn).
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,257                           4,727                        page 196
     continuing and discontinued operations
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,328                           4,700                        page 196




           1   orders; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and    of the most directly comparable ifrs financial measures,       our investor relations website under
               orders; total sectors profit; roce (adjusted); free cash   information regarding the usefulness of siemens’ supple-         www.siemens.com/nongaap .
               flow; adjusted ebitda; adjusted industrial net debt are    mental financial measures, the limitations associated
                                                                                                                                     2   october 1, 2012 – september 30, 2013.
               or may be non-gaap financial measures. definitions         with these measures and reconciliations to the most
               of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion     comparable ifrs financial measures are available on        3   adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.
88    92

 respect

“ leading siemens is
  a mission that     all in all, these are solid results, but we’re not satisfied with them – because we
                     fell clearly short of our potential and did not meet our initial forecast for the year.


  i embrace with respect
                     in the summer, we had to retract the margin targets we’d set for our sectors.
                     special burdens associated with projects in the areas of solar technology, high-speed
                     trains, wind turbines and north sea platforms for connecting offshore wind farms

  and dedication.”   to the power grid put pressure on our profits. these burdens in operations were
                     partially offset by the profits from the divestment of nokia siemens networks (nsn)
                     and from the cross-sector activities of siemens real estate (sre) and financial




    d. e.
                     services (sfs). the spinoff and public listing of osram was also a welcome success.
                     ourand
 joe kaeser – president               siemens
                               ceo ofand
                           diligence            ag
                                          perseverance    in preparing this move paid off, as the very grati-
                     fying development of the osram share price over the past few months also confirms.




                                                                                                                                         contents financial report
                        based on these and other achievements, we’ll again propose an unchanged dividend
                        of €3.00 per share at the upcoming annual shareholders’ meeting. you’ll also
                        profit from the share buyback program that we intend to implement over the next
                        two years, which will have a volume of up to €4 billion.

                                                                                                   key to references
                   siemens has scored many successes recently – not just in fiscal 2013 but also
                   between 2007 and 2011. peter löscher, my predecessor as president and ceo, playedreference within
    consolidated                            additional
                   a pivotal role in our achievements during this period and, in particular, in the
                                                                                                       the publication

    financial statements
                   exemplary investigationinformation
                                             of the corruption affair. on behalf of the company and itsreference to an
                                                                                                       external publication
                   employees, i’d like to express my gratitude to mr. löscher and my high regard for
                   hisstatements
                       commitment while                                                                reference to the
 254 d.1 consolidated                         office
                                       358 ine.1                    years.
                                                     over the paststatement
                                                   responsibility                                            company report
            of income
                       i’d also like to thank the e.2
                                            359   two other  members of the managing board who have left reference to the
                                                        independent
                                                                                                           internet
 255 d.2               the company in recent months. barbarareport
            consolidated  statements                    auditorʼs kux had been responsible for supply chain
            of comprehensive    incomeand sustainability at our company since 2008. her work was instru-
                       management
                       mental in siemens’361 beinge.3       – once of
                                                        statement
                                                    ranked            the this year – the most sustainable
                                                                   again
 256 d.3    consolidated statements                     managing board
                       company across seven industries in the internationally renowned dow jones sus-
            of financial position
                       tainability index. brigitte ederer also made many valuable contributions to the
                                            362 e.4 five-year summary
 257 d.4               company
            consolidated statementsas a member of the managing board of siemens ag and in her previous
                       position as the long-time
            of cash flows                   364 e.5      of siemens ag österreich. on behalf of the entire
                                                   headglossary
                       siemens workforce, i’d like to extend my sincere gratitude to both ms. kux and
 258 d.5               ms.statements
            consolidated                     dedicated
                            ederer for their366         service.
                                                  e.6 index
            of changes in equity
                                           368resign
                       peter y. solmssen will          company
                                                  e.7 from       structure board on december 31, 2013. he
                                                            the managing
 260 d.6    notes to consolidated
                       played a central role in establishing a sustainable corporate culture of integrity
            financial statements
                       which is viewed as 370
                                           exemplary   further information
                                                  e.8 worldwide.            and
                                                                    this achievement   will remain our bench-
                                                       information resources
 348 d.7               mark   and
            supervisory board and  our beacon  as we further align our legal and  compliance   organization.
                       i’d
            managing board like to thank mr. solmssen  most  sincerely for his service and  his collegiality as
                                           371 e.9 financial calendar
                       a member of the managing board.

                        my appreciation also goes to dr. gerhard cromme and the members of the super-
                        visory board for their farsighted support for the work of the managing board.
                        i’m very pleased that the supervisory board has appointed dr. ralf p. thomas, an
                        outstanding financial expert, to serve as chief financial officer. dr. thomas will
                        be responsible for ensuring that siemens’ financial strategy remains as sound as
                        it has always been – because in the future, as in the past, we always want to have
                        the resources we need for investments in growth, jobs and innovation as well as
                        employee training and continuing education.




                                                                                                                              95   101

     key figuresa.1
                 fiscal
                     letter             the future and values
                        2013to1, 2our shareholders

                                                                               “ siemens stands for
           volume
                                                                                 the electrification
                                                                                of the world. digitiza­                                             % change                            further


     continuing operations
     orders
                                                                                 tion and automation
                                                                           in millions of €
                                                                                                     fy 2013


                                                                                                     82,351
                                                                                                                      fy 2012


                                                                                                                     75,939
                                                                                                                                         actual


                                                                                                                                           8%
                                                                                                                                                    adjusted 3


                                                                                                                                                         10%
                                                                                                                                                                                   information


                                                                                                                                                                                    page 179
     revenue
                                  berlin and munich, november 27, 2013           are transforming this
                                                                           in millions of €          75,882          77,395              (2)%            (1)%                       page 179



                                                                                 value chain – and
                                                                                offering us major
           profitability and capital efficiency
                                                                                opportunities.”
                            for the first time, i’m addressing you as the president and ceo of your company.
                            i’ve been at this wonderful organization for 33 years now. leading siemens today
                            is not only an enormous task; it is also a mission that i embrace with respect and


     total sectors
                            supported by siemens technologies is an inspiration“ innovation, quality,
                            dedication. the fact that millions of people benefit every day from infrastructures
                                                                                fy 2013 andfy
                                                                                            an2012             % change
                                                                                                obligation as well as a
                                                                                                                                                                                        further
                                                                                                                                                                                   information

                            source of pride. what siemens can do, and what siemens does, is relevant to people
     adjusted ebitda
     total sectors profit
                            all around the world, whetherinourmillions of €
                                                                  customers,
                                                           in millions of €
                                                                                 reliability and engi­
                                                                                 8,141 employees
                                                                                users,
                                                                                 5,788
                                                                                            9,329 or shareholders.
                                                                                            7,266
                            siemens stands for the electrification of the world. digitization and automation
                                                                                                                  (13)%
                                                                                                                  (20)%
                                                                                                                                                                                    page 190
                                                                                                                                                                                    page 190


                                                                                 neering excellence
                                                                          offering 7.5
       in % of revenue (total sectors)                                 in %                    9.3
                            are transforming this value chain – and                 us major opportunities.
     continuing operations
     adjusted ebitda                                                       in millions of €            8,215           9,613                           (15)%                        page 190

                                                                                 are the values for
                             i’m well aware of the importance of this task and of the tremendous responsibility
     income from continuing operations                      in millions of €  4,212      4,642                 (9)%                                                                 page 181
                             i now also have for our more than 360,000 employees. let me assure you of one
     basic earnings per share 4                                          in €  4.85       5.15                 (6)%                                                                 page 326
                             thing: siemens will continue to be guided by the values for which we’ve always

                                                                                 which siemens stands.
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                       in %   13.8       15.5                                                                                      page 173
                             stood − innovation, quality, reliability and engineering excellence. this will remain
     continuing and discontinued operations
                             so in the future, and sustainability and responsibility will continue to inform our
     net income                                             in millions of €  4,409      4,282                   3%                                                                 page 181
     basic earnings per share 4
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))
                                                                         in €
                                                                                and this will remain
                             actions. these values have made us strong throughout our 166-year history, and our
                                                                               5.08       4.74
                             commitment to them will endure beyond the present and into the future.
                                                                                         in %           13.5
                                                                                                                 7%
                                                                                                                        13.1
                                                                                                                                                                                    page 182
                                                                                                                                                                                    page 173


                                                                                 so in the future.”
                         many things at siemens are going well – some, even very well. many of our busi-
                         nesses are very well positioned and poised for long-term success, as examples
           capital structure and liquidity
                         presented in this annual report show. this year, for the first time, the report also
                         includes our sustainability report, in which we clearly formulate our commit-
                                                                 kaesercompact.
                                                             joeglobal
                         ment to the aims of the united nations          – president            of siemens
                                                                                       and ceoreport
                                                                                  the annual                ag
                                                                                                      provides
                         a detailed account of a quite turbulent and eventful fiscal year in which there was
                         much light but also some shadow.                                                                                                                               further
                                                                                                        september 30, 2013                september 30, 2012                       information
     cash and cash equivalents                            in millions
                            at €75.9 billion, revenue was 1%                           9,190
                                                              belowofthe
                                                                      € prior-year level.                 10,891
                                                                                          new orders climbed to                                                                     page 204
     total equity (shareholders of siemens ag)                             in millions of €                          28,111                           30,855                        page 206
                          €82.4 billion, a substantial 10% gain. our order backlog now totals €100 billion.
     adjusted industrial net debt
                          finally, income from continuing      operations amounted to2,805
                                                         in millions of €                                   2,271
                                                                                       €4.2 billion, including                                                                      page 193

                          transformation costs of €1.3 billion related to our siemens 2014 productivity pro-                                                                            further
                                                                                   fy 2013                 fy 2012                                                                 information
                          gram and an extraordinary gain in connection with the divestment of our shares
     continuing operations
                          in nokia siemens networks (nsn).
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,257                           4,727                        page 196
     continuing and discontinued operations
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,328                           4,700                        page 196




           1   orders; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and    of the most directly comparable ifrs financial measures,       our investor relations website under
               orders; total sectors profit; roce (adjusted); free cash   information regarding the usefulness of siemens’ supple-         www.siemens.com/nongaap .
               flow; adjusted ebitda; adjusted industrial net debt are    mental financial measures, the limitations associated
                                                                                                                                     2   october 1, 2012 – september 30, 2013.
               or may be non-gaap financial measures. definitions         with these measures and reconciliations to the most
               of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion     comparable ifrs financial measures are available on        3   adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.
88    92

                       all in all, these are solid results, but we’re not satisfied with them – because we
                       fell clearly short of our potential and did not meet our initial forecast for the year.
                       in the summer, we had to retract the margin targets we’d set for our sectors.
                       special burdens associated with projects in the areas of solar technology, high-speed
                       trains, wind turbines and north sea platforms for connecting offshore wind farms
                       to the power grid put pressure on our profits. these burdens in operations were
                       partially offset by the profits from the divestment of nokia siemens networks (nsn)
                       and from the cross-sector activities of siemens real estate (sre) and financial




   d. e.
                       services (sfs). the spinoff and public listing of osram was also a welcome success.
                       our diligence and perseverance in preparing this move paid off, as the very grati-
                       fying development of the osram share price over the past few months also confirms.




                                                                                                                                        contents financial report
                       based on these and other achievements, we’ll again propose an unchanged dividend
                       of €3.00 per share at the upcoming annual shareholders’ meeting. you’ll also
                       profit from the share buyback program that we intend to implement over the next
                       two years, which will have a volume of up to €4 billion.

                                                                                                  key to references
                  siemens has scored many successes recently – not just in fiscal 2013 but also
                  between 2007 and 2011. peter löscher, my predecessor as president and ceo, playedreference within
   consolidated                            additional
                  a pivotal role in our achievements during this period and, in particular, in the
                                                                                                      the publication

   financial statements
                  exemplary investigationinformation
                                            of the corruption affair. on behalf of the company and itsreference to an
                                                                                                      external publication
                  employees, i’d like to express my gratitude to mr. löscher and my high regard for
                  hisstatements
                      commitment while                                                                reference to the
254 d.1 consolidated                         office
                                      358 ine.1                    years.
                                                    over the paststatement
                                                  responsibility                                            company report
           of income
                      i’d also like to thank the e.2
                                           359   two other  members of the managing board who have left reference to the
                                                       independent
                                                                                                          internet
255 d.2               the company in recent months. barbarareport
           consolidated  statements                    auditorʼs kux had been responsible for supply chain
           of comprehensive    incomeand sustainability at our company since 2008. her work was instru-
                      management
                      mental in siemens’361 beinge.3       – once of
                                                       statement
                                                   ranked            the this year – the most sustainable
                                                                  again
256 d.3    consolidated statements                     managing board
                      company across seven industries in the internationally renowned dow jones sus-
           of financial position
                      tainability index. brigitte ederer also made many valuable contributions to the
                                           362 e.4 five-year summary
257 d.4               company
           consolidated statementsas a member of the managing board of siemens ag and in her previous
                      position as the long-time
           of cash flows                   364 e.5      of siemens ag österreich. on behalf of the entire
                                                  headglossary
                      siemens workforce, i’d like to extend my sincere gratitude to both ms. kux and
258 d.5               ms.statements
           consolidated                     dedicated
                           ederer for their366         service.
                                                 e.6 index
           of changes in equity
                                          368resign
                      peter y. solmssen will          company
                                                 e.7 from       structure board on december 31, 2013. he
                                                           the managing
260 d.6    notes to consolidated
                      played a central role in establishing a sustainable corporate culture of integrity
           financial statements
                      which is viewed as 370
                                          exemplary   further information
                                                 e.8 worldwide.            and
                                                                   this achievement   will remain our bench-
                                                      information resources
348 d.7               mark   and
           supervisory board and  our beacon  as we further align our legal and  compliance   organization.
                      i’d
           managing board like to thank mr. solmssen  most  sincerely for his service and  his collegiality as
                                          371 e.9 financial calendar
                      a member of the managing board.

                       my appreciation also goes to dr. gerhard cromme and the members of the super-
                       visory board for their farsighted support for the work of the managing board.
                       i’m very pleased that the supervisory board has appointed dr. ralf p. thomas, an
                       outstanding financial expert, to serve as chief financial officer. dr. thomas will
                       be responsible for ensuring that siemens’ financial strategy remains as sound as
                       it has always been – because in the future, as in the past, we always want to have
                       the resources we need for investments in growth, jobs and innovation as well as
                       employee training and continuing education.




                                                                                                                             95   101

     key figures fiscal 2013 1, 2

           volume
                                  we’ll leave many things as they are while taking decisive action on other fronts.
                                  what was not so successful will have to be adjusted and improved – not through
                                  lots of talk, but through decisive action and hard work. we’ll work together to
                                  make this happen. the entire managing board and siemens’ global management
                                  team are in the front rank here.                                              % change                                                                further
                                                                                                     fy 2013          fy 2012            actual     adjusted 3                     information
     continuing operations
                                  i’m aware that you, our shareholders, have high expectations of us – and rightly
     orders                                                      in millions of € 82,351   75,939          8%       10%                                                             page 179
                                  so. we’ll work hard to meet your expectations. in doing so, we’ll act judiciously,
     revenue                                                     in millions of € 75,882   77,395        (2)%      (1)%                                                             page 179
                                  decisively and rigorously while maintaining an unwavering focus on the sustain-
                                  ability of our measures. our actions are geared not to turning a quick profit but
                                  to ensuring the long-term success of our company. and i know i have a team
                                  behind me that’s unmatched and highly esteemed around the world. that’s why
                                  i’d like to extend my special thanks to all our employees for their dedication and
                                  achievements.

          profitability and capital efficiency
                         what we achieve as a team, the siemens team, is the basis for our success. my
                         personal conviction and my message to everyone at the company is: siemens will
                         again take top priority at siemens. this will be the guiding principle for each and
                         every one of us – from managing board member to trainee, across all sectors,
                         divisions and regions as well as at the company ’s headquarters. we’ll again focus                                                                             further
                         more intensively on living siemens’ virtues and  fy 2013     fy 2012
                                                                             values with                  % change
                                                                                           renewed vigor every                                                                     information
     total sectors       day: reliability and continuity, fairness and integrity, diligence and dedication,
     adjusted ebitda     quality and innovation.        in millions of €   8,141       9,329                (13)%                                                                   page 190
     total sectors profit                                                  in millions of €            5,788           7,266                           (20)%                        page 190
       in % of revenue (total sectors)                                                   in %             7.5             9.3
                             we don’t have to reinvent siemens. siemens is a company with a setup that spans
     continuing operations
                             the electrification value chain. the growing impact of digitization and the expand-
     adjusted ebitda                                        in millions of €   8,215      9,613               (15)%                                                                 page 190
                             ing use of automation are shaping our markets, changing our businesses and
     income from continuing operations                      in millions of €   4,212      4,642                (9)%                                                                 page 181
                             opening up opportunities for innovation. we’ll profit more strongly than others
     basic earnings per share 4                                          in €    4.85      5.15                (6)%                                                                 page 326
                             from the three pillars of electrification, digitization and automation. many new
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                       in %     13.8      15.5                                                                                     page 173
                             competitors from other industries and technology fields are trying to penetrate
     continuing and discontinued operations
                             our territory. we’re aware of this development and prepared to meet it. many who
     net income                                             in millions of €   4,409      4,282                  3%                                                                 page 181
                             see our business fields as attractive and want to establish a foothold in them will
     basic earnings per share 4                                          in €    5.08      4.74                  7%                                                                 page 182
                             soon realize that we’re already on the scene. nevertheless, we’re taking changes
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                       in %     13.5      13.1                                                                                     page 173
                             in technologies and customer behavior seriously. we’re closely following and
                             preparing ourselves for paradigm shifts in our markets, businesses and environ-
                             ment, whether these shifts are driven by social media, data analytics – that is,
          capital structure and liquidity
                             the processing of enormous amounts of data – or biotechnology.

                             to leverage these changes for the benefit of our company, we need unparalleled
                             expertise in innovative technologies and unfailingly high productivity. and we
                             must be willing to change in order to prevail against our competitors in hotly                                                                             further
                                                                                  september 30, 2013      september 30, 2012                                                       information
                             contested markets and maintain the upper hand.         the best driver for any    company
     cash and cash equivalents                               in millions of €                9,190
                             is growth – controlled, focused, value-creating and, above all, sustainable growth.    10,891                                                          page 204
     total equity (shareholders of siemens ag)               in millions of €               28,111                  30,855                                                          page 206
                             it’s essential that we set the right priorities for achieving growth. we must make
     adjusted industrial net debt                            in millions of €                2,805                   2,271                                                          page 193
                             wise investments, and this applies      to everything from r&d      expenditures to acqui-
                             sitions and the systematic tapping of attractive markets.                                                                                                  further
                                                                                                                      fy 2013                         fy 2012                      information
     continuing operations
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,257                           4,727                        page 196
     continuing and discontinued operations
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,328                           4,700                        page 196




           1   orders; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and    of the most directly comparable ifrs financial measures,       our investor relations website under
               orders; total sectors profit; roce (adjusted); free cash   information regarding the usefulness of siemens’ supple-         www.siemens.com/nongaap .
               flow; adjusted ebitda; adjusted industrial net debt are    mental financial measures, the limitations associated
                                                                                                                                     2   october 1, 2012 – september 30, 2013.
               or may be non-gaap financial measures. definitions         with these measures and reconciliations to the most
               of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion     comparable ifrs financial measures are available on        3   adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.
88    96

                      a company like ours must aim to be a leader not only in technology but also in
                      long-term profitability. this has nothing to do with greed – but everything to do
                      with maintaining our innovative strength, enhancing our competitiveness and
                      safeguarding jobs while remaining a trusted and attractive partner for our share-
                      holders and investors worldwide.

                      we’re continuing to rigorously implement key elements of our siemens 2014
                      program. we’ll bring the program to a successful conclusion, and it will drive our




   d. e.
                      profitability. all the steps we’re taking must be geared to the long term, strengthen
                      us on an ongoing basis and have an impact that extends beyond 2014. because
                      we don’t want a brief margin-boosting flash in the pan, but changes that will keep




                                                                                                                                        contents financial report
                      siemens on the road to lasting success in order to preserve jobs and reinforce
                      our technology and market leadership. these changes will position us to narrow
                      and, in the medium term, close the gap in profitability to our competitors.

                   one thing is clear: siemens will still be around after 2014. in fiscal 2013 – exactly
                   a hundred years after the construction of our berlin-siemensstadt location, the
                                                                                                        key to references
                   site of our company headquarters until 1949 – we laid the cornerstone for our new
                   headquarters in munich. we’ve now also begun planning a new siemens campus reference within
   consolidated                              additional
                   in erlangen, germany. both of these construction projects are more than a com-
                                                                                                           the publication

   financial statements
                   mitment to the future of  information
                                               two locations steeped in company tradition. they also reference to an
                                                                                                           external publication
                   reflect our sense of obligation. we accept the responsibility that we have, day after
                   daystatements
254 d.1 consolidated                   358 for
                        and year after year,  e.1theresponsibility   company. generations of siemens reference to the
                                                       future of ourstatement
                                                                                                           company report
        of income employees have done their part to ensure that the company in which you hold
                   a stake is intrinsically                                                                reference to the
                                              e.2 today.
                                       359sound             i want our successors to be able to say the
                                                     independent
                                                                                                           internet
255 d.2 consolidated  statements                     auditorʼs report
                   same thing about us in 20 or 30 years. through our work, diligence and dedication,
                   we – theincome
        of comprehensive     managing board and the company ’s more than 360,000 employees around
                   the world – can play361a key       in shapingofyour
                                                role statement
                                              e.3                  the company ’s future. joining forces,
256 d.3 consolidated statements                      managing board
                   we’ll act as though siemens were our own company. that’s our pledge to you.
        of financial position
                                       362 e.4 five-year summary
                       the managing board
                   forstatements
257 d.4 consolidated
        of cash flows                  364 e.5 glossary

258 d.5    consolidated statements       366 e.6     index
           of changes in equity
                                         368 e.7     company structure
260 d.6    notes to consolidated
           financial statements       370 e.8 further information and
                                                information resources
348 d.7              joe kaeser
           supervisory board and
           managing president
                     board      and ceo of siemens ag
                                      371 e.9 financial calendar




                                                                                                                            97    101

         figures
     key a.2     fiscal 2013
             managing    board
                             1, 2
                                  of siemens ag

           volume




                                                                                                                                                     % change                            further
                                                                                                     fy 2013          fy 2012            actual      adjusted 3                     information
     continuing operations
     orders                                                                in millions of €          82,351          75,939                 8%            10%                        page 179
     revenue                                                               in millions of €          75,882          77,395               (2)%            (1)%                       page 179




           profitability and capital efficiency




                                        joe kaeser
                                                                                                                                                                                         further
                                        corporate development,                                        fy 2013         fy 2012                        % change                       information
                                        governance & markets,                                                          roland busch
     total sectors                      communications and
                                                                                                                       infrastructure & cities,
     adjusted ebitda                    government affairs,                in millions of €            8,141           9,329                         (13)%                           page 190
                                                                                                                       corporate  sustainability office
                                        legal and compliance
     total sectors profit                                                  in millions of €            5,788           7,266
                                                                                                                       asia                          (20)%
                                                                                                                            (excluding japan), australia                             page 190
       in % of revenue (total sectors)                                                   in %             7.5             9.3                                            customer proximity
     continuing operations
     adjusted ebitda                                                       in millions of €            8,215           9,613                            (15)%                        page 190
     income from continuing operations                                     in millions of €       performance
                                                                                                    4,212     and commitment
                                                                                                           4,642          (9)%                                                       page 181
     basic earnings per share 4                                                          in €           4.85            5.15                              (6)%                       page 326
            on capitalstands
       siemens
     return            employed for:
                                (roce (adjusted))                                        in %           13.8            15.5                                                         page 173
     continuing and discontinued operations
                                                                                                       4,409        4,282
     net income                                                            in millions of €
                                                                                                                 fairness and integrity 3%                                           page 181
     basic earnings per share 4                                                          in €           5.08            4.74                                7%                       page 182
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                                        in %           13.5            13.1                                                         page 173




           capital structure and liquidity




                                                                                                                                                                                         further
                                                                                                        september 30, 2013                 september 30, 2012                       information
     cash and cash equivalents                                             in millions of €                            9,190                           10,891                        page 204
     total equity (shareholders of siemens ag)                             in millions of €                          28,111                            30,855                        page 206
     adjusted industrial net debt                                          in millions of €                            2,805                            2,271                        page 193

                                                                                                                                                                                         further
                                                                                                                      fy 2013                          fy 2012                      information
     continuing operations
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,257                            4,727                        page 196
     continuing and discontinued operations
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,328             siegfried russwurm
                                                                                                                                                    4,700                            page 196
                                                                                                                                         industry, corporate supply chain
                                                                                                                                         management, information technology,
                                                                                                                                         corporate security office
                                                                                                                                         europe, commonwealth
           1   orders; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and    of the most directly comparable ifrs financial measures,          independent
                                                                                                                                         ofour              states,
                                                                                                                                               investor relations   africaunder
                                                                                                                                                                  website
               orders; total sectors profit; roce (adjusted); free cash   information regarding the usefulness of siemens’ supple-          www.siemens.com/nongaap .
               flow; adjusted ebitda; adjusted industrial net debt are    mental financial measures, the limitations associated
                                                                                                                                     2    october 1, 2012 – september 30, 2013.
               or may be non-gaap financial measures. definitions         with these measures and reconciliations to the most
               of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion     comparable ifrs financial measures are available on        3    adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.
88    98

          d. e.

                                                                                                                                                         contents financial report
                                                                                                                       key to references
                          klaus helmrich
                                                                                                                           reference within
           consolidated
                    human resources,              additional                                                               the publication
                    corporate technology
           financial statements                   information                                                              reference to an
                                                                                                                           external publication

                                                                                    hermann requardt
                                                                                                                           reference to the
       254 d.1   consolidated statements       358 e.1   responsibility statement                                          company report
                                                                                    healthcare
                 of income                                                          south america, japan
                                                                                                                           reference to the
                                          359 e.2 independent
                                                                                                                           internet
       255 d.2consolidated statements              auditorʼs report
                                    quality and innovation
              of comprehensive income
                                          361 e.3 statement of the
     256 d.3 consolidated statements               managing boardfinancial solidity
              of financial position
engineering excellence                    362 e.4 five-year summary
     257 d.4 consolidated statements
              of cash flows               364 e.5 glossary

       258 d.5   consolidated statements       366 e.6   index
                 of changes in equity
                                               368 e.7   company structure
       260 d.6   notes to consolidated
                 financial statements          370 e.8   further information and
                                                         information resources
       348 d.7   supervisory board and
                 managing board                371 e.9   financial calendar




                                                                   ralf p. thomas
                                                                   finance and controlling,
                                                                   financial services, siemens real estate,
                  michael süß                                      global shared services,
                  energy                                           equity investments
                  north america, middle east




                                                                                                              as of january 1, 2014           99   101

         figures fiscal
     key contents       2013 1,report
                   financial   2




           volume




                                                                                                                                                     % change                           further
                                                                                                     fy 2013          fy 2012            actual      adjusted 3                    information
     continuing operations
     orders                                                                in millions of €          82,351          75,939                 8%            10%                       page 179




                      a . b. c.
     revenue                                                               in millions of €          75,882          77,395               (2)%            (1)%                      page 179




           profitability and capital efficiency




                      to our shareholders                                       corporate                                                         combined
                                                                                                                                                                   further
                                                                                governance
                                                                                        fy 2013                       fy 2012                     management
                                                                                                                                                    % change report
                                                                                                                                                              information
     total sectors
     adjusted ebitda                                                       in millions of €            8,141           9,329                            (13)%                       page 190
                 92 a.1         letter to our shareholders                118 b.1          corporate governance                          156 c.1          business and
     total sectors profit                                                  in millions of €       5,788     7,266                                       (20)%             page 190
                                                                                           report                                                         economic environment
       in % of revenue (total sectors)                                                   in %             7.5             9.3
                 98 a.2         managing board of
     continuing operations
                         siemens ag                                       124 b.2         corporate governance                           173 c.2          financial performance
     adjusted ebitda                                                                       €
                                                                           in millions ofstatement8,215
                                                                                                     pursuant9,613
                                                                                                               to                                       (15)%
                                                                                                                                                          system                    page 190
     income 102
            from continuing
                  a.3 reportoperations
                                 of the                                    in millions ofsection
                                                                                           €      4,212 of the4,642
                                                                                                  289a                                                    (9)%                      page 181
                           supervisory
     basic earnings per share 4
                                       board                                            ingerman
                                                                                           €       commercial
                                                                                                    4.85        code
                                                                                                               5.15                      179 c.3          results of operations
                                                                                                                                                          (6)%              page 326
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                                      in(part
                                                                                           %   of the  combined
                                                                                                    13.8       15.5                                                                 page 173
            111anda.4
     continuing         the siemens
                   discontinued operations                                                management report)                             192 c.4          financial position
     net income                 share / investor relations                 in millions of €            4,409           4,282                                3%                      page 181
                                                                          126 b.3          compliance report                             204 c.5          net
     basic earnings per share 4                                                          in €           5.08            4.74                               7% assets position
                                                                                                                                                                            page 182
     return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))                                        in %           13.5            13.1                                                        page 173
                                                                          129 b.4          compensation report                           207 c.6          overall assessment of
                                                                                           (part of the combined                                          the economic position
                                                                                           management report)
           capital structure and liquidity                                                                                               209 c.7          subsequent events
                                                                          148 b.5        takeover-relevant
                                                                                         information (pursuant to                        210 c.8          sustainability
                                                                                         sections 289 para. 4 and
                                                                                         315 para. 4 of the german
                                                                                                                                         227 c.9       report on expected
                                                                                         commercial code) and
                                                                                                                                                       developments and further
                                                                                         explanatory   report30, 2013
                                                                                                   september                              september 30, 2012           information
                                                                                                                                                       associated material
     cash and cash equivalents                                             in millions of(part
                                                                                          €    of the combined9,190                                 10,891               risks204
                                                                                                                                                       opportunities andpage
     total equity (shareholders of siemens ag)                             in millions ofmanagement
                                                                                          €              report)
                                                                                                             28,111                                    30,855                       page 206
     adjusted industrial net debt                                          in millions of €                            2,805             245 c.10 2,271               page 193
                                                                                                                                                    compensation report,
                                                                                                                                                    corporate governance
                                                                                                                                                                          further
                                                                                                                      fy 2013                    fy statement
                                                                                                                                                    2012       pursuant
                                                                                                                                                                     information
     continuing operations                                                                                                                          to section 289a of the
                                                                                                                                                    german commercial
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,257                      4,727               page 196
                                                                                                                                                    code, takeover-relevant
     continuing and discontinued operations
                                                                                                                                                    information and
     free cash flow                                                        in millions of €                            5,328                      4,700
                                                                                                                                                    explanatory reportpage 196

                                                                                                                                         246 c.11 siemens ag
                                                                                                                                                           (discussion on basis of
           1   orders; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and    of the most directly comparable ifrs financial measures,                         german
                                                                                                                                          our investor relations       commercial
                                                                                                                                                                 website under    code)
               orders; total sectors profit; roce (adjusted); free cash   information regarding the usefulness of siemens’ supple-          www.siemens.com/nongaap .
               flow; adjusted ebitda; adjusted industrial net debt are    mental financial measures, the limitations associated
                                                                                                                                     2    october 1, 2012 – september 30, 2013.
               or may be non-gaap financial measures. definitions         with these measures and reconciliations to the most            250 c.12 notes and forward-looking
               of these supplemental financial measures, a discussion     comparable ifrs financial measures are available on        3    adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.
88   100                                                                                                                                                   statements

   d. e.

                                                                                                          contents financial report
                                                                         key to references
                                                                           	reference within
   consolidated                        additional                            the publication

   ­financial statements               ­information                      	reference to an
                                                                           ­e xternal publication

                                                                         	reference to the
254 d.1   consolidated statements   358 e.1   responsibility statement     ­c ompany report
          of income
                                                                           	reference to the
                                    359 e.2   independent
                                                                             ­i nternet
255 d.2   consolidated statements             ­auditorʼs report
          of comprehensive income
                                    361 e.3   statement of the
256 d.3   consolidated statements             ­managing board
          of financial position
                                    362 e.4   five-year summary
257 d.4   consolidated statements
          of cash flows             364 e.5   glossary

258 d.5   consolidated statements   366 e.6   index
          of changes in equity
                                    368 e.7   company structure
260 d.6   notes to consolidated
          financial statements      370 e.8   further information and
                                              information resources
348 d.7   supervisory board and
          managing board            371 e.9   financial calendar




                                                                                                    101

      a.3  report of the supervisory board




      berlin and munich, november 27, 2013




      fiscal 2013 was an eventful year. the supervisory board had to make a number of difficult
      decisions – decisions that were, however, necessary in the interest of the company.

      our most important decisions concerned changes in the composition of the managing
      board. at our meeting on july 31, 2013, we approved the termination by mutual consent of
      peter löscher’s appointment as a full member of the managing board and as president
      and chief executive officer of siemens ag as well as the termination agreement regarding
      his managing board employment contract. the supervisory board has great respect for
      mr. löscher’s achievements. starting on july 1, 2007, he led siemens in the challenging times
      of the compliance crisis and the global financial crisis. through his efforts, he restored our
      company’s high reputation. the supervisory board thanked mr. löscher for his services.

      the supervisory board has appointed joe kaeser the company’s new president and chief
      executive officer. mr. kaeser – who has held management positions at siemens both in and
      outside germany for more than 30 years – was appointed to a new term of office as a full
      member of the managing board and president and chief executive officer of siemens ag,
      effective august 1, 2013 to july 31, 2018. at our meeting on september 18, 2013, we appointed
      dr. ralf p. thomas a full member of the managing board and head of the managing board
      area finance and controlling, effective september 18, 2013 to september 17, 2018. at the
      same meeting, we approved the termination by mutual consent of brigitte ederer’s appoint­
      ment as a full member of the managing board and as labor director, effective the end of
      september 30, 2013, as well as the termination agreement regarding her managing board
      employment contract. we thanked ms. ederer for her many years of exemplary commitment
      and her many successes in the service of the company. klaus helmrich was appointed to
      succeed ms. ederer as labor director and head of the managing board area human resources.
      he will continue to serve the company as chief technology officer. in view of the growing
      demand for qualified experts worldwide and the importance of innovation leadership and
      leading technology positions for siemens’ competitiveness, we consider this close inte­
      gration of the managing board responsibilities for technology and human resources to be
      an advantage – particularly with regard to strengthening the recruiting and development
      of top talents in the areas of science, research and technology.

      barbara kux’s appointment as a full member of the managing board expired at the end
      of november 16, 2013. we thanked ms. kux for her achievements as head of supply chain
      management and in connection with the company’s sustainability-related activities.




102

 leveraging business opportunities

“ for siemens, 2013 was
  an eventful year marked
                     peter y. solmssen will resign from the managing board on december 31, 2013. mr. solmssen
                     joined siemens at a difficult time and played a key role in investigating the compliance


  by major changes.
                     affair at our company. by establishing a strong compliance organization, he performed
                     a major service and made important contributions to steering siemens through a chal­
                     lenging phase and restoring its good reputation. we thanked mr. solmssen for these

  we must now join forces
                     achievements.



  under mr. kaeser’s
                   there were also changes in the composition of the supervisory board due, in particular,
                   to the scheduled new election of supervisory board members at the annual shareholders’
                   meeting on january 23, 2013. following the expiration of the supervisory board’s five­year

  leadership in order to
                   term of office, shareholder representatives jean­louis beffa, håkan samuelsson and lord
                   iain vallance of tummel, and employee representative walter mönius left the supervisory

  narrow the gap to our
                   board. we thanked the departing members for their professional commitment and their
                   contributions to the company’s success. the annual shareholders’ meeting elected gérard
                   mestrallet, güler sabancı and werner wenning to serve as new shareholder representa­
  competitors.”    tives on the supervisory board. robert kensbock was elected to serve as a new employee
                   representative on the supervisory board in accordance with the provisions of the german
                   codetermination act. in addition, dr. josef ackermann left the supervisory board at his
                   own request at the end of september 30, 2013, following many years of service. the super­
 dr. gerhard cromme – chairman of the supervisory board
                   visory board expressed its gratitude to dr. ackermann for his service and commitment
                   to siemens. dr. ackermann was succeeded by jim hagemann snabe, whose initial appoint­
                   ment is by court order. mr. snabe will stand for election by the shareholders at the annual
                   shareholders’ meeting in january 2014. at our meeting on september 18, 2013, we elected
                   werner wenning to succeed dr. ackermann as second deputy chairman of the supervisory
                   board, effective october 1, 2013.

                     in fiscal 2013, the supervisory board engaged in particularly intensive deliberations con­
                     cerning the delays relating to grid connections for wind farms in the north sea, the delayed
                     delivery of ice trains to deutsche bahn, business developments that were below expecta­
                     tions and the retraction of the targets defined by the siemens 2014 program. it is now vital
                     to master the challenges associated with our major projects step­by­step and to imple­
                     ment the siemens 2014 program in such a way that the measures initiated will have a long­
                     term impact and enable the company to narrow the gap to its competitors and achieve a
                     sustainable increase in profitability. in this connection, the company will focus even more
                     intensively on the technological trends of the future – trends like digitization, software
                     and it. the company’s long­term development must be oriented toward profitable, capital­
                     efficient growth and the expansion of our technology leadership in key businesses. this is
                     the only way to create sustainable value for our employees and shareholders.

                     in fiscal 2013, the supervisory board performed with great diligence the duties assigned
                     to it by law, the siemens articles of association and the bylaws for the supervisory board.
                     we regularly advised the managing board on the management of the company and moni­
                     tored the managing board’s activities. we were directly involved in all major decisions
                     regarding the company at an early stage. in written and oral reports, the managing board
                     regularly provided us with timely and comprehensive information on company planning
                     and business operations as well as on the strategic development and current state of
                     the company. on the basis of reports submitted by the managing board, we considered
                     in detail business development and all decisions and transactions of major significance
                     to the company. deviations from business plans were explained to us in detail and inten­
                     sively discussed. the managing board coordinated the company’s strategic orientation
                     with us. the proposals made by the managing board were approved after in­depth exam­
                     ination and consultation. in my capacity as chairman of the supervisory board, i was also
                     in regular contact with the managing board and was kept up­to­date on current develop­
                     ments in the company’s business situation and on key business transactions. at separate
                     strategy meetings, i discussed with the managing board the prospects for and the future
                     orientation of individual businesses at the company.
                                                                                                                    105

                            acting responsibility
      a.3 report of the supervisory board

                                              “ on behalf of the super­
                                                visory board, i would like
                                                to thank the members
                                                of the managing board
      berlin and munich, november 27, 2013      and the employees and
                                                employee representa­
                                                tives at all siemens com­
                                                panies for their out­
      fiscal 2013 was an eventful year. the supervisory board had to make a number of difficult

                                                standing commitment.”
      decisions – decisions that were, however, necessary in the interest of the company.

      our most important decisions concerned changes in the composition of the managing
      board. at our meeting on july 31, 2013, we approved the termination by mutual consent of
      peter löscher’s appointment as a full memberdr. gerhard            – chairman
                                                                 cromme board
                                                       of the managing          and as of the supervisory board
                                                                                        president
      and chief executive officer of siemens ag as well as the termination agreement regarding
      his managing board employment contract. the supervisory board has great respect for
      mr. löscher’s achievements. starting on july 1, 2007, he led siemens in the challenging times
      of the compliance crisis and the global financial crisis. through his efforts, he restored our
      company’s high reputation. the supervisory board thanked mr. löscher for his services.

      the supervisory board has appointed joe kaeser the company’s new president and chief
      executive officer. mr. kaeser – who has held management positions at siemens both in and
      outside germany for more than 30 years – was appointed to a new term of office as a full
      member of the managing board and president and chief executive officer of siemens ag,
      effective august 1, 2013 to july 31, 2018. at our meeting on september 18, 2013, we appointed
      dr. ralf p. thomas a full member of the managing board and head of the managing board
      area finance and controlling, effective september 18, 2013 to september 17, 2018. at the
      same meeting, we approved the termination by mutual consent of brigitte ederer’s appoint­
      ment as a full member of the managing board and as labor director, effective the end of
      september 30, 2013, as well as the termination agreement regarding her managing board
      employment contract. we thanked ms. ederer for her many years of exemplary commitment
      and her many successes in the service of the company. klaus helmrich was appointed to
      succeed ms. ederer as labor director and head of the managing board area human resources.
      he will continue to serve the company as chief technology officer. in view of the growing
      demand for qualified experts worldwide and the importance of innovation leadership and
      leading technology positions for siemens’ competitiveness, we consider this close inte­
      gration of the managing board responsibilities for technology and human resources to be
      an advantage – particularly with regard to strengthening the recruiting and development
      of top talents in the areas of science, research and technology.

      barbara kux’s appointment as a full member of the managing board expired at the end
      of november 16, 2013. we thanked ms. kux for her achievements as head of supply chain
      management and in connection with the company’s sustainability­related activities.




102

peter y. solmssen will resign from the managing board on december 31, 2013. mr. solmssen
joined siemens at a difficult time and played a key role in investigating the compliance
affair at our company. by establishing a strong compliance organization, he performed
a major service and made important contributions to steering siemens through a chal­
lenging phase and restoring its good reputation. we thanked mr. solmssen for these
achievements.

there were also changes in the composition of the supervisory board due, in particular,
to the scheduled new election of supervisory board members at the annual shareholders’
meeting on january 23, 2013. following the expiration of the supervisory board’s five-year
term of office, shareholder representatives jean-louis beffa, håkan samuelsson and lord
iain vallance of tummel, and employee representative walter mönius left the supervisory
board. we thanked the departing members for their professional commitment and their
contributions to the company’s success. the annual shareholders’ meeting elected gérard
mestrallet, güler sabancı and werner wenning to serve as new shareholder representa­
tives on the supervisory board. robert kensbock was elected to serve as a new employee
representative on the supervisory board in accordance with the provisions of the german
codetermination act. in addition, dr. josef ackermann left the supervisory board at his
own request at the end of september 30, 2013, following many years of service. the super­
visory board expressed its gratitude to dr. ackermann for his service and commitment
to siemens. dr. ackermann was succeeded by jim hagemann snabe, whose initial appoint­
ment is by court order. mr. snabe will stand for election by the shareholders at the annual
shareholders’ meeting in january 2014. at our meeting on september 18, 2013, we elected
werner wenning to succeed dr. ackermann as second deputy chairman of the supervisory
board, effective october 1, 2013.

in fiscal 2013, the supervisory board engaged in particularly intensive deliberations con­
cerning the delays relating to grid connections for wind farms in the north sea, the delayed
delivery of ice trains to deutsche bahn, business developments that were below expecta­
tions and the retraction of the targets defined by the siemens 2014 program. it is now vital
to master the challenges associated with our major projects step-by-step and to imple­
ment the siemens 2014 program in such a way that the measures initiated will have a long-
term impact and enable the company to narrow the gap to its competitors and achieve a
sustainable increase in profitability. in this connection, the company will focus even more
intensively on the technological trends of the future – trends like digitization, software
and it. the company’s long-term development must be oriented toward profitable, capital-­
efficient growth and the expansion of our technology leadership in key businesses. this is
the only way to create sustainable value for our employees and shareholders.

in fiscal 2013, the supervisory board performed with great diligence the duties assigned
to it by law, the siemens articles of association and the bylaws for the supervisory board.
we regularly advised the managing board on the management of the company and moni­
tored the managing board’s activities. we were directly involved in all major decisions
regarding the company at an early stage. in written and oral reports, the managing board
regularly provided us with timely and comprehensive information on company planning
and business operations as well as on the strategic development and current state of
the company. on the basis of reports submitted by the managing board, we considered
in detail business development and all decisions and transactions of major significance
to the company. deviations from business plans were explained to us in detail and inten­
sively discussed. the managing board coordinated the company’s strategic orientation
with us. the proposals made by the managing board were approved after in-depth exam­
ination and consultation. in my capacity as chairman of the supervisory board, i was also
in regular contact with the managing board and was kept up-to-date on current develop­
ments in the company’s business situation and on key business transactions. at separate
strategy meetings, i discussed with the managing board the prospects for and the future
orientation of individual businesses at the company.
                                                                                               105

      topics at the plenary meetings of the supervisory board
      we held a total of seven regular meetings and two extraordinary meetings in the report­
      ing year. we also made one decision outside meetings. furthermore, four times in fiscal
      2013, the shareholder representatives on the supervisory board made decisions relating
      to the exercise of ownership rights required under the german codetermination act.
      attend­ance at supervisory board meetings by current members was over 94%.

      in addition to the above-mentioned decisions regarding changes in the composition of
      the managing board, regular topics of discussion at our plenary meetings were revenue,
      profit and employment development at siemens ag, at the sectors and at the siemens
      group as well as the company’s financial position, profitability and major investment and
      divestment projects. one important focus was the siemens 2014 program, which aims
      to strengthen the company’s competitiveness and profitability. in this context, we jointly
      discussed key measures to cut costs and strengthen siemens’ core business through
      major investment and divestment projects.

      at an extraordinary meeting on october 9, 2012, the managing board reported on the state
      of the company and informed the supervisory board of the implementation status of the
      siemens 2014 program.

      at our meeting on november 7, 2012, we discussed the key financial figures for fiscal 2012
      and the budget for 2013. we also determined the compensation of managing board mem­
      bers for fiscal 2012 on the basis of a calculation of their target achievement. the appropri­
      ateness of this compensation was confirmed by an internal review. we also discussed the
      spinoff of osram and approved the sale of key activities of the industry sector’s water
      technologies business unit.

      at our meeting on november 28, 2012, we discussed the financial statements and the
      ­combined management report for siemens ag and the siemens group as of september
       30, 2012 as well as the agenda for the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 23, 2013.
       we also discussed the annual report for 2012 and the corporate governance report
       included therein. we approved the budget for 2013, the settlement with former managing
       board member dr. thomas ganswindt and the regular extension of the bond issuance
       program. we also approved the acquisition of the rail division of the british company
       invensys plc, the planned divestment of the business of the logistics and airport solutions
       business unit, the spinoff of osram and the related adjustment of the special rights of
       managing board members granted under share-based compensation programs. in addition,
      we defined the targets for managing board compensation for fiscal 2013 and decided to
       adjust the base compensation of individual managing board members in fiscal 2013 and to
       annually review the base compensation of all managing board members s­ tarting in fiscal
       2014. we also received a report on the activities of corporate supply chain management.

      at our meeting on january 22, 2013, the managing board reported to us on the current busi­
      ness and financial position following the conclusion of the first quarter. we also approved
      the extension of the global commercial paper program.

      the five-year term of office of the supervisory board elected at the annual shareholders’
      meeting in 2008 ended with the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 23, 2013. at this
      meeting, the shareholder representatives on the supervisory board were elected to a
      new term of office, which will extend from 2013 to 2018. the employee representatives
      had already been elected on september 25, 2012, effective as of the end of the annual
      shareholders’ meeting. at the supervisory board’s constitutive meeting at the conclusion




106

of the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 23, 2013, the chairman, the first deputy
chairman and the second deputy chairman of the supervisory board were confirmed in
their positions and the composition of the supervisory board committees was determined.

following the decision by the annual shareholders’ meeting of january 23, 2013 to spin
off osram and the successful completion of a so-called judicial release procedure, the
spinoff was entered in the german commercial register.

at our meeting on april 30, 2013, the managing board reported on the company’s busi­
ness and financial position following the conclusion of the second quarter. the report
focused on the status of the siemens 2014 program and the delivery of velaro d (ice) and
velaro eurostar high-speed trains. the industry sector also reported on its business situa­
tion. in connection with our decision to dissolve the managing board area supply chain
management, we adjusted the assignment of responsibilities within the managing board
and amended the bylaws for the managing board accordingly.

at an extraordinary meeting on june 30, 2013, we approved the termination of the nokia
siemens networks joint venture as well as the sale of siemens’ 50% stake in the business
to co-owner nokia. we received positive feedback from the capital market regarding the
sale of the nsn stake and the successful ipo of osram.

at our meeting on july 31, 2013, we discussed the company’s business and financial posi­
tion following the conclusion of the third quarter and the progress made in connection
with the siemens 2014 program. it became clear at this meeting that the target margins
set under the program for 2014 did not appear to be achievable. the same day, the energy
sector also provided us with a report on its current business situation. in addition, we
established a compensation committee, elected its members and amended the relevant
bylaws accordingly.

at our meeting on september 18, 2013, we determined the compensation for joe kaeser
in his position as president and chief executive officer of siemens ag. the healthcare
sector reported on its current business situation. in addition, we were provided with an
overview of the company-wide top+ program and discussed the efficiency review of our
activities. however, our primary focus was on the managing board’s report on the state of
the company shortly before the end of fiscal 2013.

corporate governance code
the supervisory board concerned itself with the contents of and the amendments to the
german corporate governance code. at our meeting on july 31, 2013, we discussed the
amendments to the german corporate governance code contained in the new version of
may 13, 2013. at our subsequent meeting on september 18, 2013, we adjusted the concrete
goals for the supervisory board’s composition – which are set out in       b.1 corporate gover-    b.1
                                                                                                    see pages
 nance report on pages 118-121 of this annual report – in light of the board’s new compo­
                                                                                                    118-121
sition since january 2013 and determined that, in our estimation, the supervisory board
had an appropriate number of independent members. information on corporate gover­
nance and a detailed report on the level and structure of the compensation paid to the mem­
bers of the supervisory and managing boards is provided in           b.1 corporate governance      b.1
                                                                                                    see pages
report on pages 118-123 and in      b.4 compensation report on pages 129-147 of this annual
                                                                                                    118-123
report. the issuance of a declaration of conformity pursuant to section 161 of the                 b.4
­german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz) – stating that the company complies with               see pages
                                                                                                    129-147
 all the recommendations of the german corporate governance code in the version of




                                                                                                     107

                 may 13, 2013 and will continue to do so in the future – was approved by the supervisory
                 board at its meeting on september 18, 2013 and by the managing board in a decision
                 of september 20, 2013. details regarding the recommendations in section 4.2.3 para. 2
                 sentence 6 and section 4.2.3 para. 4 sentence 1 of the code have been explained in the
                 declaration of conformity. siemens’ declaration of conformity with the german corporate
                 governance code is permanently available to shareholders on the company’s website
 b.2            and is set out in  b.2 corporate governance statement pursuant to section 289a of the german
  see page 124
                 commercial code on page 124 of this annual report.



                 work in the supervisory board committees
                 to ensure the efficiency of its work, the supervisory board has established seven standing
                 committees, which prepare proposals and issues to be dealt with at the board’s plenary
                 meetings. the supervisory board’s decision-making powers have also been delegated to
                 these committees within the permissible legal framework. the committee chairpersons
                 report to the supervisory board on their committees’ work at the subsequent board meet­
                 ings. the members of the individual supervisory board committees, the number of com­
 d.7            mittee meetings and the number of committee decisions are set out in         d.7 supervisory
  see pages
                 board and managing board , on pages 348-351 of this annual report.
  348-351


                 the chairman’s committee met nine times in fiscal 2013. in addition, three decisions
                 were made outside meetings. between meetings, i discussed topics of particular impor­
                 tance with the members of the chairman’s committee. the committee dealt with
                 corporate-­governance-related matters, including the preparation of the declaration of
                 conformity with the german corporate governance code, with the assumption by manag­
                 ing board members of positions at other companies and institutions, and with a variety
                 of personnel-related topics. prior to the establishment of the compensation committee,
                 the chairman’s committee dealt with the preparation of decisions concerning managing
                 board compensation and recommended to the supervisory board that a compensation
                 committee be established. the chairman’s committee also made a recommendation to
                 the supervisory board regarding the termination of the nokia siemens networks joint
                 venture.

                 the nominating committee met five times in fiscal 2013. the committee focused on
                 preparing the new election of shareholder representatives on the supervisory board
                 at the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 23, 2013 and on preparing the assign­
                 ment of shareholder representatives to the supervisory board’s committees. the
                 ­nominating committee also dealt with succession planning for the supervisory board.

                 the compliance committee met five times in fiscal 2013. dr. theo waigel took part in
                 the committee’s meetings until the end of his term of office as monitor. the compliance
                 committee concerned itself primarily with the quarterly reports and the annual report
                 submitted by the chief compliance officer and the chief counsel compliance. it also
                 submitted a recommendation to the supervisory board regarding the settlement with
                 former managing board member dr. thomas ganswindt. in november 2013, it was
                 decided to expand the committee to include one additional shareholder representative
                 from the supervisory board and one additional employee representative from the
                 ­supervisory board.

                 the mediation committee was not required to meet in fiscal 2013.




    108

the compensation committee was established by a supervisory board decision of july 31,
2013. the committee prepares proposals regarding the compensation system and the deter­
mination of managing board compensation, including the targets for variable managing
board compensation. it also prepares the full supervisory board’s regular review of the
compensation system and the appropriateness of managing board compensation as well
as the approval of the compensation report. in fiscal 2013, the compensation committee
met once in a constitutive meeting. mr. wenning expressed his willingness to serve as chair­
man. the committee also made one decision outside meetings. an independent external
compensation specialist was commissioned to provide expert support relating to manag­
ing board compensation.

the finance and investment committee met three times. the focuses of its meetings
included the preparation of the decision regarding the budget for fiscal 2013 and the
preparation and/or approval of the company’s investment and divestment projects such
as the spinoff of osram. since the scope of its work will be expanded to include innovation-­
related issues, the committee will be renamed the innovation and finance committee.

the audit committee met six times. in the presence of the independent auditors, the
president and chief executive officer, the chief financial officer and the general counsel,
the committee discussed the financial statements and the combined management report
for siemens ag and the siemens group, the proposal for the appropriation of net income
and the annual report on form 20-f for the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec).
in addition, the audit committee made a recommendation to the supervisory board
regarding the supervisory board’s proposal to the annual shareholders’ meeting concern­
ing the election of the independent auditors. the audit committee gave in-depth con­
  sideration to the appointment of the independent auditors for fiscal 2013, including the
­definition of the audit focal points, to the monitoring of the auditors’ independence and
 qualifications as well as the additional services they perform, to the determination of their
 fee and to the discussion of the results of their audit reviews of the company’s quarterly
 financial reports and half-year financial report. in addition, the audit committee dealt
 with the company’s financial reporting process and risk management system and with
 the effectiveness, resources and findings of the internal audit as well as with reports
 ­concerning potential and pending legal disputes. the audit committee also focused on
  company compliance with the provisions of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act and on
  the results of the internal audit’s examination of the effectiveness of siemens’ internal
  controls, regulatory compliance and the integrity of its financial reporting. in november
  2013, it was decided to expand the committee to include one additional shareholder rep­
  resentative from the supervisory board and one additional employee representative from
  the supervisory board.

detailed discussion of the financial statements
ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft audited the stand-alone financial
statements of siemens ag, the consolidated financial statements of the siemens group
and the combined management report for siemens ag and the siemens group for fiscal
2013 and issued an unqualified opinion. the stand-alone financial statements of siemens ag
and the combined management report for siemens ag and the siemens group were
prepared in accordance with the requirements of german law. the consolidated financial
statements of the siemens group were prepared in accordance with the international
financial reporting standards (ifrs), as adopted by the european union (eu), and with




                                                                                                 109

      the additional requirements of german law set out in section 315a (1) of the german
      ­commercial code (hgb). the financial statements also comply with the ifrs, as issued by
       the international accounting standards board (iasb). the independent auditors conducted
       their audit in accordance with section 317 of the hgb and in compliance with the generally
       accepted german standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the
       ­institut der wirtschaftsprüfer (idw) and with the international standards on auditing (isa).
        the above-mentioned documents as well as the managing board’s proposal for the appro­
        priation of net income were submitted to us by the managing board in a timely manner.
        the audit committee discussed the dividend proposal in detail at its meeting on november 5,
        2013. it discussed the stand-alone financial statements of siemens ag, the con­solidated
      financial statements of the siemens group and the combined management report in detail
        at its meeting on november 26, 2013.

      the audit reports prepared by ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft were
      distributed to all members of the supervisory board and comprehensively reviewed at the
      supervisory board’s meeting on november 27, 2013 in the presence of the independent
      auditors, who reported on the main findings of their audit. the independent auditors also
      reported that there were no major weaknesses in the company’s internal audit or risk man­
      agement systems. at this meeting, the managing board explained the financial statements
      of siemens ag and the siemens group as well as the company’s risk management system.
      the independent auditors also discussed the scope, focal points and costs of the audit.

      the supervisory board concurs with the results of the audit. following the definitive find­
      ings of the audit committee’s examination and our own examination, we have no objec­
      tions. the managing board prepared the stand-alone financial statements of siemens ag
      and the consolidated financial statements of the siemens group. we approved the stand-
      alone financial statements and the consolidated financial statements. in view of our
      approv­al, the stand-alone financial statements are accepted as submitted. at our meeting
      on november 27, 2013, we endorsed the managing board’s proposal that the net income
      available for distribution be used to pay out a dividend of €3.00 per share entitled to a
      dividend and that the amount of net income attributable to shares of stock not entitled to
      receive a dividend for fiscal 2013 be carried forward.

      on behalf of the supervisory board, i would like to thank the members of the managing
      board and the employees and employee representatives at all siemens companies for
      their outstanding commitment and constructive cooperation over the last few unsettled
      months at our company.

      for siemens, 2013 was an eventful year marked by major changes. we must now join
      forces under mr. kaeser’s leadership in order to narrow the gap to our competitors.



      for the supervisory board




      dr. gerhard cromme
      chairman




110

a.4  the siemens share / investor relations


          change in the value of an investment in siemens shares in fiscal 2013
         (with dividends and the corresponding value of the osram spinoff reinvested; indexed)

      in %   september 30, 2012                                                                                                      september 30, 2013

      140
      135
      130
      125
      120
      115
      110
      105
      100
       95
       90
       85
       80




                  siemens              dax®       msci world



the siemens share price developed positively over the course                             the managing board and supervisory board will propose a div-
of fiscal 2013, but did not perform as well as the share prices of                       idend payment of €3.00 per share for fiscal 2013. representing
major benchmark companies. due to uncertainties regarding                                a planned payout ratio of 57%, this proposal is in accordance
economic growth in europe and the emerging countries, the                                with our one siemens dividend policy, with which we ensure
stock markets were highly volatile in the reporting period.                              that our shareholders participate appropriately in the compa-
during the first half of fiscal 2013, siemens’ share price devel-                        ny ’s profit development. the share buyback program launched
opment was largely in line with the overall market trend. in                             in august 2012 was ­concluded in november 2012. subsequent-
july, several events led to a positive development of the                                ly, siemens repurchased further shares in order to keep the
siemens share. at the beginning of the month, we sold our                                number of siemens’ shares outstanding constant until the
stake in the nokia siemens networks (nsn) joint venture to                               spinoff of osram licht ag. we acquired treasury shares with
nokia. a few days later, osram licht ag was spun off from                                a total value corresponding to about €3.1 billion, of which
siemens. as a result of these events, shareholders profited                              roughly €1.3 billion was attributable to fiscal 2013. siemens ag
both from an increase in the siemens share price and from                                continues to have a very sound financial basis. in an environ-
a grant of osram shares free of charge. at the end of july                               ment in which the ratings of m ­ any countries have come under
2013, our supervisory board unanimously appointed the long-                              pressure, the company continues to enjoy good investment-­
time cfo joe kaeser as president and ceo of siemens ag. in                               grade credit ratings.
august and september 2013, the company ’s share price gained
substantially, reaching a new high for the year.




253    d.    consolidated ­financial statements          357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                            111

      a.4.1 development of the siemens share                                                              a long-term comparison also illustrates the strength of the
                                                                                                          siemens share: the assets of an investor who acquired siemens
      over the first two months of fiscal 2013, the markets were                                          stock worth €1,000 at the beginning of fiscal 2004 and rein-
      ­volatile. then, at the beginning of december 2012, share prices                                    vested the dividends and the corresponding value of the
       started to rise steadily. following some fluctuations and a set-                                   osram spinoff in additional siemens shares would have in-
       back on the german stock market, in particular, in february                                        creased to €2,312 by the end of fiscal 2013. this annual return
       2013, share prices reached an interim high at the end of may                                       of 8.7% is above the results for msci world (7.6%) but below
       2013. they subsequently declined again until the beginning of                                      those for the dax 30 (10.2%).
       july 2013, when a strong upturn began, resulting in new highs
       for the year at the end of fiscal 2013.
                                                                                                          a.4.2 dividend proposal
              long-term performance of siemens shares compared
              with leading indices (average annual performance with dividends                             at the annual shareholders’ meeting, the managing board and
              and the corresponding value of the osram spinoff reinvested)
                                                                                                          the supervisory board will propose an unchanged dividend
       ten-year period                                                              fy 2004 – fy 2013     payment of €3.00, which represents a payout ratio of 57%. this
       siemens                       8.7%                                                                 proposal continues without change our tradition of paying at-
       dax®                        10.2%                                                                  tractive dividends to our investors.
       msci world                    7.6%


                                                                                                          a.4.3 share buyback program
      over the entire fiscal year, siemens stock performed relatively                                     in august 2012, against the backdrop of favorable capital mar-
      well in the market environment, closing at €89.06 per share on                                      ket conditions, siemens began to improve its capital structure
      september 30, 2013. for shareholders who reinvested their div-                                      and repurchase treasury shares with a total value correspond-
      idends and their proceeds from the osram spinoff, this                                              ing to up to €3 billion. this program was concluded in novem-
      amounted to a gain of 22.8% (fiscal 2012: a gain of 18.6%) com-                                     ber 2012 with a repurchase volume of about €2.9 billion.
      pared to the price on september 28, 2012. the siemens share                                         siemens subsequently repurchased further shares in order to
      outperformed the leading index of the german stock market,                                          keep the number of siemens’ shares outstanding constant
      the dax (which rose 19.1%), and the leading international in-                                       ­until the spinoff of osram licht ag. the company acquired a
      dex, msci world (which advanced 20.2%).                                                              total of about 40.4 million shares at an average price of €77.21,
                                                                                                           for a total value corresponding to roughly €3.1 billion. of this
                                                                                                           amount, some €1.3 billion was attributable to fiscal 2013.


              dividend

       fiscal year                                                                                 fy 2013               fy 2012                 fy 2011               fy 2010                fy 2009
       dividend per share                                                      in €                  3.001                  3.00                      3.00                2.70                   1.60
       dividend yield 2                                                        in %                     3.4                  3.9                       3.9                 2.9                     2.4
       ex-dividend date                                                                   jan. 29, 2014         jan. 24, 2013          jan. 25, 2012          jan. 26, 2011           jan. 27, 2010
       net income                                                 in millions of €                 4,409                  4,282                  5,899                  3,881                   2,448
       total dividend payout                                      in millions of €                 2,5343                 2,528                  2,629                  2,356                   1,388
       payout ratio 4                                                          in %                     57                    56                       41                   58                      56


              1   to be proposed to the annual shareholders’ meeting.          3 based on currently estimated number of shares entitled     4 excluding non-cash items in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010
                                                                                  to dividend payment.                                          (nsn and dx impairment charges), the payout ratio
              2 dividend payout / siemens share price on day of
                                                                                                                                                equaled 34% in fiscal 2009 and 46% in fiscal 2010.
                 annual shareholders’ meeting; for fiscal 2013:
                 dividend payout / siemens share price at fiscal year-end.




       92   a.    to our shareholders                                    117   b.     corporate ­governance                                155   c.     combined ­management report
112
       92   a.1    letter to our shareholders
       98   a.2   managing board of siemens ag
      102   a.3    report of the ­supervisory board
      111   a.4    the siemens share / ­investor relations

        investor type and regional distribution


                                                                                    u.k.: 8%
private investors: 18%
                                                                                                                                                     germany: 29%
                                                                                    u.s.: 16%
unidentified                                           institutional investors:
investors: 17%                                                            59%                                                                        switzerland: 6%
                                                                                    unidentified: 17%
                                                                                                                                                         france: 6%
siemens family
members: 6%                                                                         rest of world: 10%
                                                                                                                                                rest of europe: 8%




a.4.4 spinoff of osram licht ag                                                     a.4.6 credit ratings
with the aim of focusing even more strongly on its core busi-                       siemens ag has good, investment-grade credit ratings.
ness, siemens spun off 80.5% of the shares of osram licht ag                        “aa3/p-1/outlook negative” from moody ’s investors service and
to siemens shareholders in july 2013. for every ten siemens                         “a+/a-1+/outlook stable” from standard & poor’s are very posi-
shares held, one share of osram licht ag was allocated free of                      tive ratings – particularly when compared to those of our com-
charge. in addition, following this transaction, the siemens                        petitors in the industry segment. our solid financial position
share price rose substantially. after an initial listing of €24 per                 gives us unrestricted access to the international financial and
share on july 8, 2013, osram stock rose to €34.70 per share by                      capital markets.
september 30, 2013. for ­    further ­ information, please see
      note 4 acquisitions, dispositions and ­d iscontinued operations               at the end of fiscal 2013, the net debt of siemens ag was
in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements , pages                       €10,663 million, with cash and cash equivalents of €9,190
­273-278.                                                                           million. for further information on our credit ratings and
                                                                                    ­
                                                                                    ­financial obligations, please see    note 28 commitments and

                                                                                    contingencies in      d.6 notes to consolidated financial state-

a.4.5 shareholder structure                                                         ments , pages 305-306.



with some 690,000 shareholders, siemens ag is one of the                                     credit ratings

world’s largest publicly owned companies. siemens has a sta-                                                       september 30, 2013          september 30, 2013
ble shareholder structure that has changed only slightly over                                                  moody ’s                  moody ’s
                                                                                                              investors    standard &   investors        standard &
time. in august 2013, we mandated an external institute to                                                      service        poor’s     service            poor’s
conduct an analysis of our shareholder structure. based on an                            long-term debt           aa3            a+            aa3              a+
evaluation of publications from institutional investors and on                           short-term debt          p -1         a -1+           p -1           a -1+
statistical estimates, its analysis showed that shareholders in
germany hold the largest percentage of our shares outstand-
ing, about 29% of all shares outstanding. shareholders in the
u.s. hold roughly 16% and shareholders in the u.k. around 8%,
while investors in france hold 6% and in switzerland 6%.

some 59% of siemens’ shares outstanding are currently held
by institutional investors, about 18% by private shareholders
and around 6% by members of the siemens family. for further
information on our shareholder structure, please see
   www.siemens.com/shareholderstructure .




253    d.   consolidated ­financial statements    357    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                        113

      a.4.7 siemens on the capital market                                                          a.4.8 profit-sharing culture /
                                                                                                   stock-based compensation programs
      we take our responsibility to maintain an intensive dialogue
      with the capital market very seriously. cultivating close con-                               siemens has set itself the goal of more intensively fostering a
      tacts with our shareholders, we keep them informed of all                                    profit-sharing culture at the company and encouraging em-
      ­major developments throughout siemens.                                                      ployees to become shareholders. that’s why we offer various
                                                                                                   share-based payment programs to our workforce. in fiscal
      as part of our investor relations work, we provide information                               2013, 3,878,899 siemens shares were issued to service these
      on our company ’s development in quarterly, semiannual and                                   programs, namely, the stock awards program, the share
      annual reports. our ceo and cfo also maintain close contact                                  matching program (including the base share program, the
      with investors through roadshows and conferences. in addi-                                   share matching plan and the monthly investment plan) and
      tion, siemens holds sector capital market days, at which the                                 the jubilee program. non-vested and outstanding grants un-
      management of our sectors informs investors and analysts                                     der the various plans will result in additional share issuances
      about the sectors’ business strategies and market environ-                                   to employees in the future. for more detailed information
      ments.                                                                                       on share-based payment, please see          note 33 share-based

                                                                                                   payment in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements ,
              stock market information                                                             pages 323-326.
                                                                           fy 2013 1   fy 2012 1
       stock price range                                                                            our company-wide share ownership guidelines specify that
       (xetra closing price)                                                                        the members of the managing board and roughly 550 other
       high                                                        in €     90.33       79.71      ­senior executives must hold an interest in siemens equal in
       low                                                         in €     76.00       63.06       value to between 50% and 300% of their base compensation
       fiscal year-end                                             in €     89.06       77.61       for the period in which they hold office. for further informa-
       number of shares issued                                                                      tion on our employee share programs, please see         note 33
       (september 30)                                       in millions        881         881
                                                                                                   share-based payment in       d.6 notes to consolidated financial
       market capitalization 2                          in millions of €   75,078      66,455
                                                                                                    statements , pages 323-326.
       basic earnings per share 3                                  in €       5.08        4.74
       diluted earnings per share 3                                in €       5.03        4.69
       dividend per share                                          in €       3.004       3.00


              1 fiscal year from october 1 to september 30.
              2   on the basis of outstanding shares.
              3 adjusted for effects of adopting ias 19r.
                 the prior year is presented on a comparable basis.
              4   to be proposed to the annual shareholders’ meeting.




       we also provide extensive information online. quarterly, semi-
       annual and annual reports, analyst presentations and press re-
       leases as well as our financial calendar for the current year
       (please see      e.9 financial calendar , page 371), which includes

       all major publication dates as well as the date of the annual
       shareholders’ meeting, are available at          www.siemens.com/

       investors . in fiscal 2013, we launched the siemens shareholder

      letter, a quarterly publication which is addressed primarily
      to our private investors and provides a brief summary of key
      ­developments during the quarter under review.




114

                                                                                                                           b.
  corporate
  governance




                                                                                                                                              b. corporate governance
  118 b.1       corporate governance report                           148 b.5          takeover-relevant information
  118 b.1.1     management and control structure                                       (pursuant to sections 289 para. 4   corporate
                                                                                       and 315 para. 4 of the german
  122 b.1.2 purchase or sale of the company ’s shares                                                                      governance
                                                                                       commercial code) and explanatory
  122 b.1.3 annual shareholders’ meeting and                                           report (part of the combined
            investor relations                                                         management report)
  122 b.1.4 significant differences between siemens ’                 148 b.5.1 composition of common stock
            corporate governance and nyse
            corporate governance standards                            148 b.5.2 restrictions on voting rights
                                                                                or transfer of shares
                                                                      148 b.5.3 equity interests exceeding 10%
  124 b.2       corporate governance statement                                  of voting rights
                pursuant to section 289a of
                                                                      148 b.5.4 shares with special rights conferring
                the german commercial code
                                                                                powers of control
                (part of the combined
                management report)                                    148 b.5.5 system of control of any employee
                                                                                share scheme where the control
                                                                                rights are not exercised directly by
            compliancereport
  126 b.3 governance   report                                                   the employees
corporate
                                                    149 b.5.6 legislation and provisions of the
  126 b.3.1 compliance priorities
                                                              articles of association applicable to
  126 b.3.2 further information, indicators                   the appointment and removal of
            and legal proceedings                             members of the managing board
  126 b.3.3 compliance training                               and governing amendment to the
                                                                statement
                                         corporate governancearticles  of association
  127 b.3.4 employee survey on compliance
  127 b.3.5 business partners and suppliers         149 b.5.7 powers   of the managing board to
                                                              issue and repurchase shares
  127 b.3.6 siemens integrity initiative
                                                    151 b.5.8 significant agreements which take
  127 b.3.7 transfer of responsibility                        effect, alter or terminate upon a
            for data privacy                                  change of control of the company
                                                              following a takeover bid
                                                                  compliance  report
  129 b.4       compensation report                                 152 b.5.9 compensation agreements with
                (part of the combined                                                  members of the managing board
                management report)                                                     or employees in the event of a
                          of members report
                   compensation
  129 b.4.1 remuneration
                                                                                       takeover bid
            of the managing board
  146 b.4.2 remuneration of members
            of the supervisory board
  147 b.4.3 other




                                        takeover-relevant information




                                                                                                                                        117
       due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this corporate governance chapter may not add up
       precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

                                   corporate governance
                           goodmarket
      a.4.7 siemens on the capital                           is the
                                             a.4.8 profit-sharing   basis
                                                                  culture /
                                         for our decision-making      stock-based    and       control programs
                                                                                          compensation
      we take our responsibility to maintain an intensive dialogue
                                         processes and comprises
      with the capital market very seriously. cultivating close con-
      tacts with our shareholders, we keep them informed of all
                                                                                       responsible,
                                                                      siemens has set itself  the goal of more intensively fostering a
                                                                      profit-sharing culture at the company and encouraging em-
                                         value-based management
      major developments throughout siemens.                          ployees to become and        monitor-
                                                                                           shareholders.  that’s why we offer various

                                         ing focused on long-term
      as part of our investor relations work, we provide information
                                                                                          success,
                                                                      share-based payment programs to our workforce. in fiscal
                                                                      2013, 3,878,899 siemens shares were issued to service these
      on our company ’s development in   goal-oriented
                                          quarterly, semiannual andand   efficient
                                                                      programs,   namely, cooperation
                                                                                            the stock awards program, the share
      annual reports. our ceo and cfo also maintain close contact     matching program (including the base share program, the
      with investors through roadshows   between
                                           and conferences.our     managing
                                                             in addi- share matchingandplan andsuper-
                                                                                                  the monthly investment plan) and

                                         visory boards, respect
      tion, siemens holds sector capital market days, at which the
      management of our sectors informs investors and analysts
                                                                                 for the interests
                                                                      the jubilee program. non-vested and outstanding grants un-
                                                                      der the various plans will result in additional share issuances
                                         of our
      about the sectors’ business strategies          shareholders
                                               and market    environ-          andinemployees,
                                                                      to employees       the future. for more detailed information
      ments.                                                          on share-based payment, please see
                                         transparency and responsibility                               in all
                                                                                                                                       note 33 share-based

                                                                               in                 payment                            ,
                                                                                                            d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements
            stock market information
                                         our entrepreneurial decisions and an
                                                                      pages 323-326.
                                                                          fy 2013 1   fy 2012 1
        stock price range                appropriate risk management  our company-wide share system.
                                                                                                  ownership guidelines specify that
       (xetra closing price)                                                               the members of the managing board and roughly 550 other
       high                                                        in €    90.33       79.71
                                                                                           senior executives must hold an interest in siemens equal in
       low                                                       www.siemens.com/ar/corporate-governance
                                                                    in €  76.00   63.06    value to between 50% and 300% of their base compensation
       fiscal year-end                                              in €  89.06   77.61    for the period in which they hold office. for further informa-
       number of shares issued                                                             tion on our employee share programs, please see         note 33
       (september 30)                                       in millions     881     881
                                                                                           share-based payment in      d.6 notes to consolidated financial
       market capitalization 2                          in millions of € 75,078  66,455
                                                                                           statements , pages 323-326.
       basic earnings per share 3                                  in €      5.08        4.74
       diluted earnings per share 3                                in €      5.03        4.69
       dividend per share                                          in €      3.004       3.00


              1   fiscal year from october 1 to september 30.
              2   on the basis of outstanding shares.
              3   adjusted for effects of adopting ias 19r.
                  the prior year is presented on a comparable basis.
              4   to be proposed to the annual shareholders’ meeting.




      we also provide extensive information online. quarterly, semi-
      annual and annual reports, analyst presentations and press re-
      leases as well as our financial calendar for the current year
      (please see      e.9 financial calendar , page 371), which includes

      all major publication dates as well as the date of the annual
      shareholders’ meeting, are available at          www.siemens.com/

      investors . in fiscal 2013, we launched the siemens shareholder

      letter, a quarterly publication which is addressed primarily
      to our private investors and provides a brief summary of key
      developments during the quarter under review.




114

                                                                                                                           b.
corporate
­governance




                                                                                                                                               b. corporate governance
118 b.1       corporate governance report                            148 b.5          takeover-relevant ­information
118 b.1.1     management and control structure                                        (pursuant to ­sections 289 para. 4   corporate
                                                                                      and 315 para. 4 of the ­german
122 b.1.2 purchase or sale of the company ’s shares                                                                        ­governance
                                                                                      commercial code) and explanatory
122 b.1.3 annual shareholders’ meeting and                                            report (part of the combined
          investor relations                                                          management report)
122 b.1.4 significant differences between siemens ’                  148 b.5.1 composition of common stock
          corporate governance and nyse
          ­corporate governance standards                            148 b.5.2 restrictions on voting rights
                                                                               or ­transfer of shares
                                                                     148 b.5.3 equity interests exceeding 10%
124 b.2       c
               orporate governance statement                                  of ­voting rights
              pursuant to section 289a of
                                                                     148 b.5.4 shares with special rights conferring
              the ­german commercial code
                                                                               powers of control
              (part of the combined
              ­management report)                                    148 b.5.5 system of control of any employee
                                                                               share scheme where the control
                                                                               rights are not exercised directly by
126 b.3       compliance report                                                the employees
                                                                     149 b.5.6 legislation and provisions of the
126 b.3.1 compliance priorities
                                                                               ­articles of association applicable to
126 b.3.2 further information, indicators                                       the appointment and removal of
          and legal proceedings                                                 ­members of the managing board
126 b.3.3 compliance training                                                    and governing amendment to the
127 b.3.4 employee survey on compliance                                          ­articles of association
127 b.3.5 business partners and suppliers                            149 b.5.7 powers of the managing board to
                                                                               issue and repurchase shares
127 b.3.6 siemens integrity initiative
                                                                     151 b.5.8 significant agreements which take
127 b.3.7 transfer of responsibility                                           effect, alter or terminate upon a
          for data privacy                                                     change of control of the company
                                                                               ­following a takeover bid
129 b.4       compensation report                                    152 b.5.9 compensation agreements with
              (part of the combined                                            ­members of the managing board
              ­management report)                                              or employees in the event of a
                                                                                ­takeover bid
129 b.4.1 remuneration of members
          of the managing board
146 b.4.2 remuneration of members
          of the supervisory board
147 b.4.3 other




                                                                                                                                         117
     due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this ­corporate governance chapter may not add up
     ­precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

      b.1  corporate governance report


      siemens ag complies with the currently applicable recommen-                  headquarters and the effectiveness of the related control sys-
      dations of the german corporate governance code (code) in                    tems. their confirmation provides a basis for our ceo and cfo
      the version of may 13, 2013.                                                 to certify our financial statements to the sec. consistent with
                                                                                   the requirements of the soa, we have procedures for handling
      the managing board and the supervisory board of siemens ag                   accounting complaints in place as well as a code of ethics for
      have discussed compliance with the code’s recommendations                    financial matters. this code of ethics for financial matters
      in detail. based on their deliberations, the boards have approved            was last updated in 2010.
      the annual declaration of conformity as of october 1, 2013
      with two supplementary explanations regarding compliance
      with certain recommendations. this document is posted on                     b.1.1 management and control structure
      our website and presented in chapter          b.2 corporate gover-

      nance statement pursuant to section 289a of the g
                                                      ­ erman com-                 b.1.1.1 supervisory board
      mercial code on page 124 of this annual report.                              siemens ag is subject to german corporate law. it has a two-­tier
                                                                                    board structure, consisting of a managing board and a
      siemens voluntarily complies with the code’s non-binding                     ­supervisory board. as required by the german codetermination
      suggestions, with the following exceptions:                                   act (mitbestimmungsgesetz), the company ’s shareholders and
                                                                                    its employees each select one-half of the supervisory board’s
      >> according to the revised section 3.7 para. 3, in the case of a             members. the term of office of the members of the ­supervisory
         takeover offer, the management board should convene an                     board will expire at the close of the annual shareholders’ meet-
         extraordinary general meeting at which shareholders dis-                   ing 2018. as successor to dr. josef ackermann, who resigned
         cuss the takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions                from the supervisory board effective september 30, 2013, jim
         (previously: only in appropriate cases). the convening of a                hagemann snabe has been appointed to the s    ­ upervisory board
         shareholders’ meeting – even taking into account the short-                by court order in accordance with section 5.4.3 sentence 2 of the
         ened time limits stipulated in the german securities acqui-                code until the end of the annual shareholders‘ meeting 2014.
         sition and takeover act (wpüg) – is an organizational chal-
         lenge for large publicly listed companies. it appears doubtful            the supervisory board most recently amended the objectives
         whether the associated effort is justified in cases where no              for its composition in line with section 5.4.1 of the code in fis-
         relevant decisions by the shareholders’ meeting are intend-               cal 2012. due to the new election of shareholder and employee
         ed. therefore, extraordinary shareholders’ meetings shall, as             representatives, which took effect at the end of the annual
         in the past, be convened only in appropriate cases.                       shareholders‘ meeting on january 23, 2013, the supervisory
      >> since the managing board appointments made in 2011, the                   board modified these objectives at its meeting on september
         suggestion in section 5.1.2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the code                18, 2013, and reapproved them as follows:
         that the maximum possible appointment period of five years
         should not be the rule for first-time appointments to the                 >> the composition of the supervisory board of siemens ag
         management board has not been followed.                                     shall be such that qualified control and advising for the
                                                                                      managing board is ensured. the candidates proposed for
      our listing on the new york stock exchange (nyse) subjects us                   election to the supervisory board shall have the expertise,
      to a number of provisions under u.s. securities laws (including                 skills and professional experience necessary to carry out the
      the sarbanes-oxley act, soa) as well as to the rules and regu-                  functions of a supervisory board member in a multinational
      lations of the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec)                    company and safeguard the reputation of siemens in public.
      and the nyse. to, inter alia, facilitate our compliance with the                in particular, care shall be taken in regard to the personality,
      soa, we have, among other things, established a disclosure                      integrity, commitment, professionalism and independence
      committee, comprising the heads of a number of our corpo-                       of the individuals proposed for election. the goal is to en-
      rate units. this committee is responsible for reviewing certain                 sure that, in the supervisory board, as a group, all know-
      financial and non-financial information and advising our man-                   how and experience is available that is considered essential
      aging board in its decisions regarding disclosure. we also have                 in view of siemens’ activities.
      procedures in place that require the members of the manage-                  >> taking the company ’s international orientation into ac-
      ment of our sectors, divisions, financial services, cross-sector                count, care shall also be taken to ensure that the superviso-
      services, regional clusters and certain corporate units – sup-                  ry board has an adequate number of members with exten-
      ported by certifications provided by the management of enti-                    sive international experience. our goal is to make sure that
      ties under their direction – to confirm the correctness of the                  the present considerable share of supervisory board mem-
      financial data that they have reported to siemens’ corporate                    bers with extensive international experience is maintained.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.    corporate ­governance
118
                                                    118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                    124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                  ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    126   b.3   compliance report                                          ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                            (part of the combined management report)

>> in its election proposals, the supervisory board shall also pay            the supervisory board oversees and advises the managing
   particular attention to the appropriate participation of wom-              board in its management of the company ’s business. at regular
   en. qualified women shall already be included in the initial               intervals, the supervisory board discusses business develop-
   process of selecting potential candidates for new elections or             ment, planning, strategy and implementation. it reviews the
   for the filling of supervisory board positions that have become            stand-alone financial statements of siemens ag, the consoli-
   vacant and shall be considered, as appropriate, in nomina-                 dated financial statements of siemens group, management
   tions. we have meanwhile been able to increase the number                  ­reports on these financial statements and the proposal for the
   of women on our supervisory board to five. our goal is to                   appropriation of net income. it also discusses siemens’ quarterly
   maintain and, if possible, to increase this number. it is also              and half-yearly reports and approves the stand-alone financial
   intended that – as is currently the case – at the minimum one               statements of siemens ag as well as the consolidated financial
   woman should be a member of the nominating committee.                       statements of siemens group, taking into account both the
>> an adequate number of independent members shall belong                      ­reports issued by the independent auditors thereon and the
   to the supervisory board. material and not only temporary                    ­results of the review conducted by the audit committee. in ad-
   conflicts of interest, such as organizational functions or ad-                dition, the supervisory board and the com­pliance committee,
   visory capacities with major competitors of the company,                        which is described in more detail below, concern themselves
   shall be avoided. under the presumption that the mere exer-                   with the company ’s adherence to statutory pro­visions, official
   cise of supervisory board duties as an employee representa-                regulations and internal company policies (compliance). the
   tive gives no cause to doubt the compliance with the inde-                    supervisory board also appoints the members of the managing
   pendence criteria pursuant to section 5.4.2 of the code, the                  board and determines each member’s duties. important manag-
   supervisory board shall have a minimum of sixteen mem-                        ing board decisions – such as those regarding major acquisi-
   bers who are independent in the meaning of the code. in                         tions, divestments and financial measures – r­ equire supervisory
   any case, the supervisory board shall be composed in such a                   board approval, unless the b   ­ ylaws for the ­supervisory board
   way that a number of at least six independent shareholder                     specify that such authority be delegated to the finance and in-
   representatives in the meaning of section 5.4.2 of the code                   vestment committee of the supervisory board. in the bylaws for
   is achieved. in addition, the supervisory board members                       the managing board, the supervisory board has established
   shall have sufficient time to be able to devote the necessary                 the rules that govern the work of the managing board – in
   regularity and diligence to their mandate.                                    ­particular, the rules regarding the allo­cation of duties among
>> the age limitation established in the bylaws for the super­                    ­individual managing board members, the matters reserved for
   visory board will be taken into consideration. in addition, no                  the managing board as a whole and the quorum required for
   more than two former members of the managing board of                           managing board decisions.
   siemens ag shall belong to the supervisory board.
                                                                              the supervisory board currently has seven committees whose
 the objectives for the supervisory board‘s composition that                  duties, responsibilities and procedures fulfill the requirements
 were approved in the last fiscal year have been taken into ac-               of the german stock corporation act and the code, reflect ap-
count in the proposals for the election of the supervisory                    plicable soa requirements and incorporate applicable nyse
board members and have been fully achieved. the consider-                     rules as well as certain nyse rules, with which siemens ag
able share of supervisory board members who are currently                     complies voluntarily. the chairmen of the committees provide
engaged in international activities and/or have many years of                 the supervisory board with regular reports on the activities of
international experience has been maintained. the number of                   the committees.
female supervisory board members has increased from four to
five. furthermore, dr. nicola leibinger-kammüller has been                    the chairman’s committee, which comprises the chairman
elected to the nominating committee. the supervisory board                    and deputy chairmen of the supervisory board as well as one
has an adequate number of independent members. in the                         further employee representative elected by the supervisory
opinion of the supervisory board, a minimum of sixteen super-                 board, performs the collective tasks of a “nominating and cor-
visory board members are independent in the meaning of sec-                   porate governance committee” to the extent that such tasks are
tion 5.4.2 of the code. some supervisory board members                        not performed by the nominating committee and german law
hold – or have held in the past year – high-ranking positions at              does not require that such tasks be performed by the full super-
other companies with which siemens does business. never-                      visory board. in particular, the chairman’s committee makes
theless, transactions between siemens and such companies                      proposals regarding the appointment and dismissal of manag-
are carried out on an arm’s length basis. we believe that these               ing board members and handles contracts with members of
transactions do not compromise the independence of the                        the managing board. in preparing recommendations on the
­supervisory board members in question.                                       appointment of managing board members, the chairman’s




155   c.   combined ­management report        253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements          357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                       119

      committee takes into account a candidate’s professional quali-               and the regulations of the sec. the audit committee oversees
      fications, international experience and leadership qualities,                the accounting process. it also prepares the ­       supervisory
      the age limit specified for managing board members, the                      board’s recommendation to the a    ­ nnual shareholders’ meeting
      board’s long-range plans for succession as well as the board’s               concerning the election of the independent auditors and sub-
      diversity and, in particular, the appropriate consideration of               mits the corresponding pro­posal to the full supervisory board.
      women. the chairman’s committee concerns itself with ques-                  in addition to the work performed by the independent audi-
      tions regarding the company ’s corporate governance and pre-                tors, the audit committee also discusses the company ’s finan-
      pares the resolutions to be approved by the supervisory board               cial statements, which are prepared by the managing board
      regarding the declaration of conformity with the code, includ-              quarterly, half-yearly and annually. on the basis of the inde-
      ing the explanation of deviations from the code, and regarding              pendent auditors’ report on the annual financial statements,
      the approval of the corporate governance report, and the                    the audit committee makes, after its own review, recommen-
      ­report of the supervisory board to the annual shareholders‘                dations to the supervisory board regarding the a   ­ pproval of the
       meeting. furthermore, the chairman’s committee submits re­c­               stand-alone ­financial statements of siemens ag and the con-
       ommendations to the supervisory board regarding the compo-                 solidated ­financial statements of siemens group. it concerns
       sition of supervisory board committees and decides whether                 itself with the company ’s risk monitoring system and oversees
       to approve business transactions with managing board mem-                  the effectiveness of the internal control system as this relates,
       bers and parties related to them.                                          in particular, to financial ­reporting, the risk management sys-
                                                                                   tem and the internal audit system. the internal audit depart-
      the compensation committee, which was newly formed by                        ment reports regularly to the audit committee. the audit com-
      the supervisory board on july 31, 2013, and comprises the                    mittee awards the audit contract to the independent ­auditors
      members of the chairman’s committee of the supervisory                      elected by the annual shareholders’ meeting and monitors the
      board as well as one of the supervisory board’s shareholder                 independent audit of the financial statements – including, in
      representatives and one of the supervisory board’s employee                  particular, the auditors’ ­independence, professional expertise
      representatives, prepares the proposals for decisions by the                and services – and performs other functions assigned to it
      supervisory board’s plenary meetings regarding the system of                ­under the soa.
      managing board compensation, including the implementation
      of this system in the managing board contracts, the definition              the compliance committee comprises the chairman of the
      of the targets for variable managing board compensation, the                supervisory board, two of the supervisory board’s shareholder
      determination and review of the appropriateness of the total                representatives and three of the supervisory board’s employee
      compensation of individual managing board members and the                   representatives. in november 2013, it was decided to increase
      approval of the annual compensation report. in addition, the                the number of committee members by one additional share-
      compensation committee prepares the regular review by the                   holder representative and one additional employee representa-
      supervisory board’s plenary meetings of the system of manag-                tive. the compliance committee concerns itself, in particular,
      ing board compensation.                                                     with the company ’s adherence to statutory provisions, official
                                                                                  regulations and internal company policies.
      the audit committee comprises the chairman of the super­
      visory board, two of the supervisory board’s shareholder repre-             the nominating committee, which comprises the chairman
      sentatives and three of the supervisory board’s employee                    and the second deputy chairman of the supervisory board as
      ­representatives. in november 2013, it was decided to increase              well as two further members to be elected by the shareholder
       the number of committee members by one additional share-                   representatives of the supervisory board from among their
       holder representative and one additional employee representa-              number, is responsible for making recommendations to the
       tive. under german law, the audit committee must include at                supervisory board on suitable candidates for election as share-
       least one independent supervisory board member with knowl-                 holder representatives of the supervisory board by the annual
       edge and experience in the application of accounting princi-               shareholders’ meeting. in preparing these recommendations,
       ples or the auditing of financial statements. the chairman of              the objectives specified by the supervisory board regarding its
       the audit committee, dr. hans michael gaul, fulfills these stat-           composition are to be taken into account as well as the required
       utory requirements. the supervisory board has designated                   knowledge, abilities and experience of the proposed candi-
       dr. hans michael gaul – in addition to dr. gerhard cromme –                dates; attention shall also be paid to independence, diversity
      as an “audit committee financial ­expert,” as defined by the soa            and, in particular, the appropriate participation of women.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.    corporate ­governance
120
                                                   118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                   124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                               c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                               section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                               (part of the combined management report)                  ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                   126   b.3   compliance report                                          ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                           (part of the combined management report)

the mediation committee, which comprises the chairman of                                       is presented in chapter     b.3 compliance report on pages 126-

the supervisory board, the first deputy chairman (who is elect-                                128 and in chapter      c.8.10 compliance on pages 224-226 of

ed in accordance with the german codetermination act), one                                    this annual report. the managing board and the ­supervisory
of the supervisory board’s shareholder representatives and one                                board cooperate closely for the benefit of the company. the
of the supervisory board’s employee representatives, submits                                  managing board informs the supervisory board regularly,
proposals to the supervisory board in the event that the super-                               comprehensively and without delay on all issues of
visory board cannot reach the two-thirds majority required for                                ­importance to the company with regard to strategy, plan-
the appointment or dismissal of a managing board member.                                       ning, business development, financial position, earnings,
                                                                                               compliance and risks. when filling managerial positions at
the finance and investment committee 1 comprises the                                           the company, the managing board takes diversity into con-
chairman of the supervisory board, three of the supervisory                                    sideration and, in particular, aims for an appropriate consid-
board’s shareholder representatives and four of the superviso-                                 eration of women.
ry board’s employee representatives. based on the company ’s
overall strategy, which is the focus of an annual strategy meet-                              currently, there is one managing board committee, the equity
ing of the supervisory board, the committee prepares the dis-                                 and employee stock committee. this committee comprises
cussions and resolutions of the supervisory board regarding                                   three members of the managing board and oversees the utili-
questions relating to the company ’s financial situation and                                  zation of authorized capital in connection with the issuance of
structure as well as its fixed asset and financial investments.                               employee stock and the implementation of certain capital mea-
in addition, the finance and investment committee has been                                    sures. it also determines the scope and conditions of the share-
authorized by the supervisory board to decide on the approval                                 based compensation components and/or programs for employ-
of transactions and measures that require supervisory board                                   ees and managers (with the exception of the managing board).
approval and have a value of less than €600 million.
                                                                                              the composition of the managing board and its committee is
the composition of the supervisory board and its committees                                   presented in chapter     d.7 supervisory board and managing

is presented in chapter    d.7 supervisory board and managing                                 board on pages 352-354 of this annual report. information on

board on pages 348-351 of this annual report. information on                                  the compensation paid to the members of the managing board
the work of this body is provided in the      a.3 report of the                               is provided in the  b.4 compensation report on pages 129-145.

supervisory board on pages 102-110. the compensation paid to

the members of the supervisory board is explained in chapter                                  b.1.1.3 share ownership
   b.4 compensation report on pages 146-147.                                                  as of october 13, 2013, the managing board’s current members
                                                                                              held a total of 216,560 (2012: 293,808) siemens shares repre-
b.1.1.2 managing board                                                                        senting 0.02 (2012: 0.03)% of the capital stock of siemens ag,
as the company ’s top management body, the managing board                                     which totaled 881,000,000 shares.
is committed to serving the interests of the company and
achieving sustainable growth in company value. the members                                    as of the same day, the supervisory board’s current members
of the managing board are jointly responsible for the entire                                  held siemens shares representing less than 0.01 (2012: less
management of the company and decide on the basic issues                                      than 0.01)% of the capital stock of siemens ag, which totaled
of business policy and corporate strategy as well as on the                                   881,000,000 shares. these figures do not include the 9,313,438
company ’s annual and multi-year plans.                                                       (2012: 11,454,464) shares, or 1.06 (2012: 1.30)% of the capital
                                                                                              stock of siemens ag, which totaled 881,000,000 shares, over
the managing board prepares the company ’s quarterly and                                      which the von siemens-vermögensverwaltung gmbh (vsv), a
half-yearly reports, the stand-alone financial statements of                                  german limited liability company, has voting control under
siemens ag and the consolidated financial statements of                                       powers of attorney based on an agreement between – among
siemens group. in addition, the managing board must ensure                                    others – members of the siemens family, including gerd von
that the company adheres to statutory provisions, official reg-                               brandenstein, and vsv. these shares are voted together by
ulations and internal company policies (compliance) and works                                 vsv based on proposals by the family partnership established
to achieve compliance with these provisions and policies with-                                by the siemens family or by one of its committees. gerd von
in the siemens group. further comprehensive information on                                    brandenstein is the current chairman of the executive commit-
the compliance program and related activities in fiscal 2013                                  tee and has a deciding vote in cases of deadlock.




       1 in november 2013 renamed “innovation and finance committee.”




155   c.   combined ­management report                      253   d.     consolidated ­financial statements        357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                 121

      b.1.2 purchase or sale                                                         for communication purposes, siemens makes extensive use of
      of the company ’s shares                                                       the internet. we publish quarterly, half-yearly and annual re-
                                                                                     ports, earnings releases, ad hoc announcements, analyst presen­
      pursuant to section 15a of the german securities trading act                   tations, shareholder letters and press releases as well as the
      (wphg), members of the managing board and the supervisory                      ­financial calendar for the current year, which contains the pub-
      board are legally required to disclose the purchase or sale of                  lication dates of significant financial communications and the
      shares of siemens ag or of financial instruments based there-                  date of the annual shareholders’ meeting, at           www.siemens.

      on if the total value of such transactions entered into by a                   com/investors . details of our investor relations activities are

      board member or any closely associated person reaches or                        provided in chapter      a.4 the siemens share / investor relations

      ­exceeds €5,000 in any calendar year. all transactions reported                 on pages 111-114 of this annual report.
       to siemens ag in accordance with this requirement have been
       duly published and can be found on the company ’s website                     corporate governance guidelines
          www.siemens.com/directors-dealings .                                       our articles of association, the bylaws for the supervisory
                                                                                     board and for its most important committees, the bylaws for
                                                                                     the managing board, all our declarations of conformity with
      b.1.3 annual shareholders‘ meeting                                             the code and a variety of other corporate-governance-related
      and investor relations                                                         documents are posted on our website at 
                                                                                        www.siemens.com/corporate-governance .

      shareholders exercise their rights in the annual shareholders‘
      meeting. an ordinary annual shareholders’ meeting normally
      takes place within the first four months of each fiscal year. the              b.1.4 significant differences between
      annual shareholders’ meeting decides, among other things, on                   siemens’ corporate governance and
      the appropriation of the unappropriated net income, the ratifi-
      cation of the acts of the managing and supervisory boards, and
                                                                                     nyse corporate governance standards
       the appointment of the independent auditors. amendments to
       the articles of association and measures that change the com-                 companies listed on the nyse are subject to the corporate gov-
       pany ’s capital stock are approved at the annual shareholders’                ernance standards of section 303a (nyse standards) of the nyse
      meeting and are implemented by the managing board. the                         listed company manual. under the nyse standards, siemens ag,
      managing board facilitates shareholder participation in this                   as a foreign private issuer, is permitted to follow its home-coun-
      meeting through electronic communications – in particular, via                 try corporate governance practices in lieu of the nyse standards,
      the ­internet – and enables shareholders who are unable to at-                 except that it must comply with the nyse standards in having an
      tend the meeting to vote by proxy. furthermore, shareholders                   audit committee whose members are independent within the
      may exercise their right to vote in writing or by means of elec-               meaning of the soa as well as with certain nyse notification ob-
      tronic communications (voting by mail). the managing board                     ligations. in addition, the nyse standards require that foreign
      may enable shareholders to participate in the annual sharehold-                private issuers disclose any significant differences between their
       ers’ meeting without the need to be present at the venue and                  own corporate governance practices and those that the nyse
       without a proxy and to exercise some or all of their rights fully or          standards require of u.s. domestic companies.
       partially by means of electronic communications. shareholders
       may submit proposals regarding the proposals of the managing                    as a company incorporated in germany, siemens ag must
       and supervisory boards and may contest ­decisions of the annu-                  comply in the first instance with the german stock corpora-
       al shareholders’ meeting. shareholders owning siemens stock                     tion act and the german codetermination act and voluntarily
       with an aggregate notional value of €100,000 or more may also                   follows the recommendations of the german corporate gover-
      demand the judicial appointment of special auditors to examine                   nance code as set out on pages 118-121 of this annual report.
      specific issues. the reports, documents and information re-                    furthermore, siemens complies with all binding rules and
      quired by law, including the annual report, may be downloaded                  ­regulations of the markets on which its securities are listed,
      from our website. the same applies to the agenda for the                        such as the nyse, and also voluntarily complies with many of
      ­annual shareholders’ meeting and to possible counterproposals                  the nyse requirements that by their terms apply only to u.s.
       or shareholders’ nominations, if any, that ­require disclosure.                ­domestic issuers.

      as part of our investor relations activities, we inform our inves-             the significant differences between our governance practices
      tors comprehensively about developments within the company.                    and those of u.s. domestic nyse issuers are as follows:




      92   a.   to our shareholders                   117   b.    corporate ­governance
122
                                                      118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                      124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                  c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                  section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                  (part of the combined management report)                  ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                      126   b.3   compliance report                                          ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                              (part of the combined management report)

b.1.4.1 two-tier board structure                                              to its nominating committee. the supervisory board has also
the german stock corporation act requires siemens ag to                       established a compensation committee. nevertheless, certain
have a two-tier board structure, consisting of a managing                     responsibilities – for example, the determination of the com-
board and a supervisory board. this two-tier structure is char-               pensation of the members of the managing board – have not
acterized by a strict separation of management and super­                     been delegated to a committee because german law requires
vision. the roles and responsibilities of each of the two                     that these functions be performed by the full supervisory
boards are clearly defined by law. the composition of the                     board. the audit committee, the chairman’s committee and
supervisory board is determined in accordance with the
­                                                                             the compliance committee have written bylaws – adopted by
­german codetermination act, which stipulates that one-half                   the supervisory board – that define their respective tasks and
 of the required 20 supervisory board members are to be elect-                responsibilities. the nyse standards were taken into consider-
ed by our employees in germany. the chairman of the super-                    ation in drawing up these bylaws.
 visory board is entitled to cast a deciding vote when the super-
 visory board is unable to reach a decision in two separate                   the audit committee of siemens ag is subject to the require-
 rounds of voting.                                                            ments of the soa and the securities exchange act, as these
                                                                              apply to a foreign private issuer, and performs – in cooperation
b.1.4.2 independence                                                          with the compliance committee – functions similar to those
in contrast to the nyse standards, which require a board of                   assigned to an audit committee under the nyse standards.
­directors to affirmatively determine the independence of the                 nevertheless, german law prohibits delegating certain respon-
 individual directors with reference to specific tests of indepen-            sibilities – such as the selection of independent auditors (who,
 dence, german law does not require the supervisory board to                  under german law, must be elected at the shareholders’ meet-
 make such affirmative findings on an individual basis. german                ing) – to a committee.
 law requires an audit committee to include at least one
 ­independent supervisory board member with knowledge and                     the supervisory board of siemens ag also has a finance and
  experience in the application of accounting principles or the               investment committee and a mediation committee, the latter
  auditing of financial statements. in addition, the bylaws for               of which is required under german law. neither of these com-
  siemens’ supervisory board contain several provisions to help               mittees is required by the nyse standards.
  ensure the independence of our supervisory board’s advice
  and supervision. furthermore, the members of our super­                     b.1.4.4 shareholder approval of equity
  visory and managing boards are strictly independent of one                  ­compensation plans; stock repurchases
  another: a member of one board is legally prohibited from                   the nyse standards generally require that the u.s. domestic
  ­being concurrently active on the other. our supervisory board              companies, i.e. u.s. companies listed on the nyse, obtain
   members have independent decision-making authority and                     shareholder approval of all equity compensation plans (in-
   are legally prohibited from following any direction or instruc-            cluding stock option plans) and of any material revisions to
   tion. moreover, they may not enter into consulting, service or             such plans. under german law, the creation of authorized or
   certain other contracts with siemens, unless approved by the               contingent capital in order to issue shares requires share-
   supervisory board. we also use the independence criteria of                holder approval. shareholders must also approve the key
   the code as guiding principles.                                            points of a stock option plan as part of a decision regarding
                                                                              the creation of contingent capital or the authorization for a
b.1.4.3 committees                                                            company to repurchase and use its own shares for servicing
in contrast to the nyse standards, which require the creation                 a stock option plan.
of several specific board committees, composed of indepen-
dent directors and operating pursuant to written charters that                under german law, share buybacks generally require prior
define their tasks and responsibilities, the supervisory board                shareholder authorization. such authorization was last given
of siemens ag has assigned many of the functions of a nomi-                   at our annual shareholders’ meeting on january 25, 2011, and
nating and corporate governance committee to its chairman’s                   this matter will, as a general rule, be voted upon at the expira-
committee and has delegated part of the remaining functions                   tion of each authorization.




155   c.   combined ­management report        253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements         357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                  123

      b.2  corporate governance statement pursuant to section 289a
            of the german commercial code

      the corporate governance statement pursuant to section 289a                       in section 4.2.3 para. 4 sentence 1, the code recommends
      of the german commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch) is an                           that, in concluding management board contracts, care be
      ­integral part of the combined management report. in accor­                       taken to ensure that payments made to a management
       dance with section 317 para. 2 sentence 3 of the german com­                     board member on premature termination of his / her con­
       mercial code, the disclosures made within the scope of section                    tract, including fringe benefits, do not exceed the value of
       289a of the german commercial code are not subject to the                         two years’ compensation (severance payment cap) and
       audit by the auditors.                                                           compensate no more than the remaining term of the
                                                                                        ­employment contract.
      declaration of conformity with the
      german corporate governance code                                                  the current managing board contracts contain a corre­
      the managing board and the supervisory board of siemens ag                        sponding severance payment cap, and it is intended to in­
      approved the following declaration of conformity pursuant to                      clude such a cap in all future managing board contracts.
      section 161 of the german stock corporation act as of october                     therefore, the agreements concluded with mr. löscher
      1, 2013:                                                                          and ms. ederer on the premature termination of their
                                                                                        ­
                                                                                        managing board activities specify severance payments
           “declaration of conformity by the managing board and the                     that do not exceed the value of two years’ compensation.
            supervisory board of siemens aktiengesellschaft with the                    further benefits that do not constitute compensation pay­
            german corporate governance code                                            ments in the sense of section 4.2.3 para. 4 sentence 1 of
                                                                                        the code were also agreed upon with both mr. löscher and
           siemens ag complies and will continue to comply with                         ms. ederer, mr. löscher in particular having signed a two-
           the currently applicable recommendations of the german                       year post-contractual non-compete clause. details of the
           corporate governance code (“code”) in the version of                         agreements with mr. löscher and ms. ederer will be pro­
           may 13, 2013, published by the federal ministry of justice                   vided in the compensation report included in the annual
           in the official section of the federal gazette (“bundes­                     report for 2013.
           anzeiger”). further details are as follows:
                                                                                        since making the last declaration of conformity dated
           in section 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6, the code recommends                     ­october 1, 2012, siemens ag has complied with the recom­
           capping the amount of management board compensation,                          mendations of the code in the prior version of may 15,
           both overall and for individual compensation components.                      2012.

           plans call for implementing this recommendation effective                    berlin and munich, october 1, 2013
           october 1, 2013. the current managing board contracts
           specify caps for bonuses and long-term, stock-based com­                     siemens aktiengesellschaft
           pensation. however, these caps are defined as a percent­
           age of each target amount; they are not specific figures. in                 the managing board               the supervisory board“
           line with the principle that agreements must be honored,
           retroactive intervention in these contracts would be inap­
           propriate. it could not be implemented by the company
           unilaterally and, in our opinion, is not required by section
           4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.    corporate ­governance
124
                                                   118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                   124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                               c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                               section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                               (part of the combined management report)                  ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                   126   b.3   compliance report                                          ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                           (part of the combined management report)

information on                                                               our company’s values
corporate governance practices                                               and business conduct guidelines
suggestions of the code                                                      in the 166 years of its existence, our company has built an ex­
siemens voluntarily complies with the code’s non-binding                     cellent reputation around the world. technical performance,
suggestions, with the following exceptions:                                  innovation, quality reliability, and international engagement
                                                                             have made siemens one of the leading companies in electronics
according to the revised section 3.7 para. 3, in the case of a               and electrical engineering. it is top performance with the
takeover offer, the management board should convene an                       highest ethics that has made siemens strong. this is what the
­extraordinary general meeting at which shareholders discuss                 company should continue to stand for in the future.
 the takeover offer and may decide on corporate actions (pre­
  viously: only in appropriate cases). the convening of a share­               the business conduct guidelines provide the ethical and
holders’ meeting – even taking into account the shortened                      ­legal framework within which we want to maintain successful
  time limits stipulated in the german securities acquisition and            activities. they contain the basic principles and rules for our
takeover act (wertpapiererwerbs- und übernahmegesetz,                        conduct within our company and in relation to our external
 wpüg) – is an organizational challenge for large publicly                   partners and the general public. they set out how we meet
 ­listed companies. it appears doubtful whether the associated               our ethical and legal responsibility as a company and give
  effort is justified in cases where no relevant decisions by the            ­expression to our corporate values of being “responsible –
  shareholders’ meeting are intended. therefore, extraordinary                ­excellent – innovative.”
  shareholders’ meetings shall, as in the past, be convened only
  in appropriate cases.                                                      the business conduct guidelines can be downloaded from the
                                                                             internet on:   www.siemens.com/289a .

since the managing board appointments made in 2011, the
suggestion in section 5.1.2 para. 2 sentence 1 of the code that              operation of the managing board,
the maximum possible appointment period of five years should                 the supervisory board, and composition
not be the rule for first-time appointments to the management                and operation of their committees
board has not been followed.                                                 the composition of the committees of the managing and su­
                                                                             pervisory boards is given under chapter       d.7 supervisory

the code can be downloaded from the internet at:                             board and managing board on pages 348-354, respectively of

   www.siemens.com/289a .                                                    the annual report, as is a description of the composition of
                                                                             the managing board and the supervisory board. the composi­
further corporate governance practices applied beyond legal                  tions can be accessed via the internet on:
requirements are contained in our business conduct guidelines.                  www.siemens.com/289a .



                                                                             a general description of the functions and operation of the
                                                                             managing board and the supervisory board can be found
                                                                             ­under the heading       b.1.1 management and control structure

                                                                              under chapter     b.1 corporate governance report on pages 118-

                                                                              123 and via the internet on:     www.siemens.com/289a . further

                                                                              details regarding the operation of the managing board and
                                                                              ­
                                                                              supervisory board can be derived from the description of
                                                                              the committees as well as from the bylaws for the corporate
                                                                              bodies concerned. these documents can be found at: 
                                                                                 www.siemens.com/289a .




155   c.   combined ­management report       253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements        357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                125

      b.3  compliance report


      for siemens, promoting integrity means acting in accordance                 b.3.2 further information, indicators
      with our values – responsible, excellent and innovative –                   and legal proceedings
       wherever we do business. a key element of integrity is com­
      pliance: adherence to the law and to our own internal regula­               for information on compliance risks, please see                         c.9 report

      tions. we have zero tolerance for corruption and violations of              on expected developments and associated material opportunities

      the principles of fair competition – and where they do occur,               and risks on pages 227-245 of this annual report. detailed in­

      we rigorously investigate. the fact that we uncovered com­                  formation on our compliance priorities for fiscal 2013 and fiscal
      pliance violations in our company in the past fiscal year is,               2014 and a list of our compliance indicators (with accompany­
      in our view, a validation that our compliance system was                    ing notes) are set out in  c.8.10 compliance on pages 224-226.

      ­designed properly and implemented effectively.                             we report on corruption and antitrust proceedings in        note

                                                                                  29 legal proceedings on pages 306-312.

      our business conduct guidelines are binding for all managers,
      employees and managing board members worldwide. they                        on our website, you’ll find extensive information on compli­
      ­also apply to members of the supervisory board where relevant.             ance at siemens and an overview of the published company
       our business conduct guidelines describe how we fulfill our                information on compliance within the structure of the guid­
       compliance-related responsibilities. they ’re also an expression           ance by the global compact and transparency international on
       of our values and lay the foundation for our own internal regu­            reporting for the global compact’s tenth principle – anti-corrup­
       lations. our compliance system instills a permanent awareness              tion:    www.siemens.com/ar/anti-corruption-reporting-index .

       of these responsibilities in all our managers and employees.

      we actively support the ratification and enactment of the                   b.3.3 compliance training
      ­united nations convention against corruption, which – like
       the ten principles of the united nations global compact – pro­             one focus of our preventive measures under the compliance
         vides ­important guidance for our entire organization. we’re             system is to provide training to all managers and employees
       ­also ­actively involved in the global compact and engaged in a            who hold positions with a particular risk profile. the compli­
        ­variety of its local networks.                                           ance officers of the relevant company units identify the man­
                                                                                  agers and employees whose participation is required and en­
                                                                                  sure they attend the training seminars. they monitor and con­
      b.3.1 compliance priorities                                                 firm the fulfillment of these requirements at regular intervals.

      since their introduction in fiscal 2011, our compliance priori­             the assessment and analysis of compliance risks for the oper­
      ties have taken into account and fulfilled the continuously                 ating units and at group level ( c.9 report on expected devel-
      evolving r­equirements in the field of compliance – require­                opments and associated material opportunities and risks ) offers

      ments that reflect both our own work and the changing market                important indicators that help us develop and define the focus
      conditions and compliance risks of our business activities.                 of our training activities, including the selection of the themed
      each fiscal year, we focus our activities on the compliance pri­            modules for the annual events held in conjunction with the
      orities that provide the basis for the ongoing development of               integrity dialog, which we introduced siemens-wide in fiscal
      our compliance system. this approach has proven its worth.                  2013. our operating units address specific challenges by
                                                                                  ­enhancing their training activities with additional topics from
                                                                                   their own businesses. in this way, the training reflects both
                                                                                   siemens-wide topics and the key topics specific to the operat­
                                                                                   ing units.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.    corporate ­governance
126
                                                   118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                   124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                               c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                               section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                               (part of the combined management report)                  ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                   126   b.3   compliance report                                          ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                           (part of the combined management report)

b.3.4 employee survey on compliance                                           b.3.6 siemens integrity initiative
we conduct regular surveys to gauge how siemens employees                     if real progress is to be made in combating corruption and
perceive the topic of compliance. since fiscal 2010, this has                 fostering fair competition, as many stakeholders as possible
been a fixed component of the company-wide siemens global                     must act in concert. that’s why we’ve joined forces with
engagement survey. the next survey is planned for fiscal 2014.                other organizations to fight corruption and promote ethical
                                                                              markets through collective action and the siemens integrity
                                                                              initiative.
b.3.5 business partners and suppliers
                                                                              siemens introduced the second funding round of the siemens
all business partners who function as intermediaries between                  integrity initiative on june 27, 2013. information on the process
siemens and its customers must undergo standardized                           and a description of the selection criteria are published on our
­company-wide risk assessment before business relations com­                  corporate website at       www.siemens.com/integrit y-­i nitiative .

  mence. business partners are assigned a risk class based on cer­            i­ nformation on the projects supported in the first funding round
  tain risk indicators such as the risk of corruption in the l­ocal           and their status can be found in the second a     ­ nnual report of
  country. the risk class determines how business relations –                 the siemens integrity initiative, which is also available on our
 ­license requirements, mandatory contract clauses, etc. – proceed.           corporate website.

in the year under review, we made our business partner check
more risk-oriented. we also provided all siemens operating                    b.3.7 transfer of responsibility
units with standardized recommendations for the ongoing                       for data privacy
monitoring of business partner activities.
                                                                              fiscal 2014 will see the siemens-wide transfer of operational
our code of conduct for siemens suppliers requires our sup­                   responsibility for data privacy to the compliance organization.
pliers to behave in a lawful manner generally and to comply                   the related tasks include risk assessments, monitoring activi­
with our anti-corruption principles, in particular. this code of              ties, training for all managers and employees and complaint
conduct is based on the ten principles of the united nations                  handling. the corporate legal department is providing legal
global compact. we take a risk-based approach with system                     advice. we’re adapting our compliance system processes
                                                                              ­
checks and on-site inspections to monitor whether our sup­                    ­accordingly – for example, by updating the compliance risk
pliers are in compliance with the code’s requirements. for more                ­assessment for our operating units to include data privacy.
information, please see      c.8.3 supply chain management on

page 215 of this annual report.                                               the siemens compliance organization has an active presence
                                                                              with a firm foothold in our operating units. the compliance
in fiscal 2013, we developed information and recommenda­                      officers work with the ceos of the operating units, and our
tions designed to help our employees deal with routine risks                  employees contact their local compliance officer with any
from corruption, fraud and embezzlement in the area of pur­                   questions or reports about possible misconduct. we’re now
chasing. here, we drew upon our experience with a similar                     ­applying this same efficient, established structure to data pri­
guide to antitrust regulations, which we provided to employ­                   vacy. we believe this will make our data privacy management
ees as part of our antitrust compliance program.                               more effective while optimizing efficiency.




155   c.   combined ­management report        253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements          357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                     127

            siemens compliance system


                                                              management responsibility




                             prevent                                       detect                                                    respond

       > compliance risk management                 > whistleblowing channels “tell us”                      > consequences for misconduct
       > policies and procedures                        and ombudsman                                         > remediation
       > training and communication                 > compliance controls                                     > global case tracking
       > advice and support                         > monitoring and compliance reviews
       > integration in personnel processes         > compliance audits
       > collective action                          > compliance investigations




      all siemens managers are responsible for compliance – this                 for further information, please see:
      continues to be the central element of our compliance system,                   c.9 report on expected developments and associated material

      with its three action levels: prevent, detect and respond. in              opportunities and risks on pages 227-245,                     c.8.10 compliance

      addition to specifying a role-model function for senior man­               on pages 224-226 and      note 29 legal ­p roceedings on pages

      agement, this responsibility goes further: all our managers                306-312 of this annual report.
      must exemplify compliance and ensure that business deci­                        www.siemens.com/compliance

      sions and actions in their areas of responsibility are always in
      complete accordance with the relevant legal requirements and
      our own values and guidelines.

      the further development of our compliance system entails
      continuously adapting it to the evolving requirements in the
      field of compliance. our overall aim remains unchanged: we
      want to anchor integrity permanently throughout our compa­
      ny to ensure that we make sound business decisions based on
      clear principles of integrity.




      92   a.   to our shareholders               117   b.    corporate ­governance
128
                                                  118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                  124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                              c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                              section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                              (part of the combined management report)                  ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                  126   b.3   compliance report                                          ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                          (part of the combined management report)

b.4  compensation report


the compensation report outlines the principles underlying                                  aim is for their remuneration to be commensurate with the
the determination of the total compensation of the members                                  company ’s size and economic position. exceptional achieve-
of the managing board of siemens ag, and sets out the struc-                                ments are to be rewarded adequately, while falling short of
ture and level of the remuneration of the managing board                                    goals is intended to result in an appreciable reduction in remu-
members. it also describes the policies governing, and levels                               neration. the managing board’s compensation is also struc-
of, the compensation paid to supervisory board members.                                     tured so as to be attractive in comparison to that of competi-
                                                                                            tors, with a view to attracting outstanding managers to our
 this section is based on the recommendations of the german                                 company and keeping them with us for the long term.
 corporate governance code (gcgc) and includes disclosures
 in accordance with the requirements of the german commer-                                  the system and levels for the remuneration of the managing
 cial code (hgb), german accounting standards (drs), and                                    board are determined and reviewed regularly by the full super-
 international financial reporting standards (ifrs). the
 ­                                                                                          visory board, based on proposals from the chairman‘s com­
 ­compensation report is an integral part of the combined                                   mittee, or, beginning with july 2013 the compensation com-
­management report.                                                                         mittee. the supervisory board reviews remuneration levels
                                                                                            annually to ensure that they are appropriate. in that process,
                                                                                            the company ’s economic situation, performance and outlook,
b.4.1 remuneration of members                                                               as well as the tasks and performance of the individual manag-
of the managing board                                                                       ing board members, are taken into account. in addition, the
                                                                                            supervisory board considers the common level of remunera-
b.4.1.1 remuneration system                                                                 tion in comparison with the peer companies and with the
the remuneration system for the managing board at siemens                                   compensation structure in place in other areas of the compa-
is intended to provide an incentive for successful corporate                                ny, taking due account of the relationship between the manag-
management with an emphasis on sustainability. members of                                   ing board’s remuneration and that of senior management and
the managing board are expected to make a long-term com-                                    staff, both overall and with regard to its development over
mitment to and on behalf of the company, and may benefit                                    time. the remuneration system that has been used for the
from any sustained increase in the company ’s value. in the in-                             managing board members since fiscal 2011 was approved by
terest of that aim, a substantial portion of their total remunera-                          a large majority at the annual shareholders’ meeting on janu-
tion is linked to the performance of siemens stock. a further                               ary 25, 2011.

       remuneration system for managing board members

compensation                                                                                 granted in                  timing

                                         long-term compensation                                                                                    restriction period
                                         (target parameter: stock price compared                                                                   and period for
                                         to 5 competitors)                                                                                         target measurements
                                         variability: 0 – 200%                               stock awards                                          4 years
                                                                                             ­(forfeitable
stock-based                              long-term stock-based compensation                   grants of stock)
                                                                                                                         performance period
compensation                             (target parameter: ø earnings per share)                                        3 years, including year of compensation;
                                         variability: 0 – 200%                                                           subsequent restriction period: 4 years


                                         variable compensation (bonus)                       bonus awards                                 performance period
                                         (target parameters: revenue growth                  (non-forfeitable                             year of compensation; subse-
                                         (organic), roce (adjusted), free cash flow)         grants of stock)                             quent waiting period: 4 years
                                         variability: 0 – 200%;
                                         possibility of adjustment                                                                                        performance period
                                         by the supervisory board: ± 20 %                                                                                 year of compensation


cash
                                                                                             cash
compensation
                                         base compensation
                                         and fringe benefits



                                                                                                                        fy 2011 fy 2012 fy 2013 fy 2014 fy 2015 fy 2016 fy 2017

share ownership
                       obligation to hold shares for duration of membership in managing board
guidelines

              non-performance-based components            performance-based components                performance-based components with deferred payout




155   c.   combined ­management report                     253   d.    consolidated f
                                                                                    ­ inancial statements                 357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                  129

      in fiscal 2013, the remuneration system for the managing                    option may also be exercised in recognition of managing board
      board had the following components:                                         members’ individual achievements.

      non-performance-based components                                            the bonus is paid half in cash, and half in the form of non-for-
      base compensation                                                           feitable stock commitments (bonus awards). after a four-year
      base compensation is paid as a monthly salary. it is reviewed               waiting period, the beneficiary will receive one share of
      annually, and revised if appropriate. the base compensation of              siemens stock for each bonus award. instead of the transfer of
      the president and ceo joe kaeser has been €1,845,000 per                    siemens stock, an equivalent cash settlement may be effected.
      year since his appointment on august 1, 2013. the base com-
      pensation of the cfo and those members of the managing                      long-term stock-based compensation
      board who have responsibilities for sector portfolios has been              long-term stock-based compensation consists of a grant of for-
      €967,500 per year since october 1, 2012. the base compen-                   feitable stock commitments (stock awards). the beneficiaries
      sation of the other members of the managing board has                       will receive one free share of siemens stock for each stock award
      ­remained unchanged at €900,000 per year since o    ­ ctober 1,             after a restriction period. beginning with the award for fiscal
       2010.                                                                      2011, the restriction period for stock awards ends at the close of
                                                                                  the second day after publication of the preliminary operating
      fringe benefits                                                             ­results for the fourth calendar year after the date of the award.
      fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivalent, of
      non-monetary benefits and other perquisites, such as provi-                 in the event of extraordinary unforeseen developments that
      sion of a company car, contributions toward the cost of insur-              have an impact on the stock price, the supervisory board may
      ance, reimbursement of fees for legal advice, tax advice and                decide to reduce the number of promised stock awards retro-
      accommodation and moving expenses, including a gross-up                     actively, or it may decide that in lieu of a transfer of siemens
      for any taxes that have to be borne in this regard, as well as              stock only a cash settlement in a defined and limited amount
      costs relating to preventive medical examinations.                          will be paid, or it may decide to postpone transfers of siemens
                                                                                  stock for payable stock awards until the developments have
      performance-based components                                                ceased to have an impact on the stock price.
      variable compensation (bonus)
      the variable compensation (bonus) is based on the company ’s                in the event of a 100% target attainment, the annual target
      business performance in the past fiscal year. the targets for               amount for the monetary value of the stock awards commit-
      the variable compensation are derived from “one siemens”,                   ment will be €1.9 million for the president and ceo (effective
      our target system for sustainably enhancing corporate value.                august 1, 2013), and €1 million for each of the other members
      on the basis of this target system, the supervisory board at                of the managing board. beginning with fiscal 2011, the super-
      the beginning of each fiscal year defines specific targets.                 visory board has the option of increasing, on an individual ba-
      ­corresponding target parameters – in addition to other fac-                sis, the target amount for a member of the managing board
       tors – also apply to senior managers, with a view to establish-            who has been reappointed by as much as 75% above the
      ing a consistent t­ arget system throughout the company.                    amount of €1 million, for one fiscal year at a time. this option
                                                                                  enables the supervisory board to take account of the manag-
      for a 100% target attainment (target amount) the amount of                  ing board member’s individual accomplishments and experi-
      the bonus equals the amount of base compensation. the                       ence as well as the scope and demands of his or her function.
      ­bonus is subject to a ceiling (cap) of 200%. if targets are sub-           this rule does not apply to the president and ceo.
       stantially missed, the variable compensation may not be paid
       at all.                                                                    the performance-based component of long-term stock-based
                                                                                  compensation is likewise founded on the one siemens target
      the supervisory board is entitled to revise the amount result-              system. the allocation rules for long-term stock-based com-
      ing from attaining targets, by as much as 20% upward or                     pensation take this focus into account as follows:
      downward, at its duty-bound discretion (pflichtgemäßes
      ­ermessen); the adjusted amount of the bonus paid can be                    >> on the one hand, half of the annual target amount for the
       as much as 240% of the target amount. in choosing the factors                 annual stock awards is linked to the average basic earnings
       to be considered in deciding on possible revisions of the bonus               per share for the last three completed fiscal years from
       payouts (±20%), the supervisory board takes account of in-                    ­continuing and discontinued operations (eps). in principle,
       centives for sustainable corporate management. the revision                    the target value is the average basic eps from the past three




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.    corporate ­governance
130
                                                   118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                   124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                               c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                               section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                               (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                   126   b.3   compliance report                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                             (part of the combined management report)

   fiscal years completed prior to the year of compensation. at              evidence that this obligation has been met must first be pro-
   the end of each fiscal year, the supervisory board decides on             vided after the buildup phase, and updated annually there­
   a figure that represents that year’s target attainment, which             after. if the value of the accrued holdings declines below
   may lie between 0% and 200% (cap). this target attainment                 the minimum to be evidenced from time to time because the
   will then determine the actual monetary value of the award                market price of siemens stock has fluctuated, the member of
   and the resulting number of stock awards.                                 the managing board must acquire additional shares.
>> on the other hand, the development of the performance of
   siemens’ stock relative to its competitors is to have a direct            pension benefit commitments
   effect on compensation. for this purpose, with respect to                 the members of the managing board, like all siemens ag em-
   the other half of the annual target amount for the stock                  ployees, are included in the siemens defined contribution
   awards, the supervisory board will first grant a number of                benefit plan (bsav). under the bsav, members of the manag-
   stock awards equivalent to the monetary value of half the                 ing board receive contributions that are credited to their per-
   target amount on the date of the award. the supervisory                   sonal pension account. the amount of the annual contribu-
   board will also decide on a target system (target value for               tions is based on a predetermined percentage which refers to
   100% and target curve) for the performance of siemens                     the base compensation and the target amount for the bonus.
   stock relative to the stock of competitors (at present, abb,              this percentage is decided upon annually by the supervisory
   general electric, philips, rockwell and schneider). the refer-            board; most recently it was set at 28%. in making its decision,
   ence period for measuring the target will be the same as the              the ­supervisory board takes account of the intended level of
   four-year restriction period for the stock awards. after this             provision for each individual, also considering the length of
   restriction period expires, the supervisory board will deter-             time for which the individual has been a managing board
   mine how much better or worse siemens stock has per-                      member, as well as the annual and long-term expense to the
   formed relative to the stock of its competitors. this determi-            company as a result of that provision. the non-forfeitability of
   nation will yield a target attainment of between 0% and                   pension benefit commitments is in compliance with the pro­
   200% (cap). if target attainment is above 100%, an additional             visions of the german company pensions act (betriebsrenten­
   cash payment corresponding to the outperformance is ef-                   gesetz). special contributions may be granted to managing
   fected. if target attainment is less than 100%, a number of               board members on the basis of individual decisions of the
   stock awards equivalent to the shortfall from the target will             ­supervisory board. in the case of new appointments of mem-
   expire without replacement.                                               bers of the managing board from outside the company, these
                                                                              contributions may be defined as non-forfeitable from their
with regard to the further terms of the stock awards, generally               inception. if a member of the managing board earned a
                                                                              ­
the same principles apply for the managing board and for se-                  ­
                                                                              pension benefit entitlement from the company before the
nior managers; these principles are discussed in more detail in               bsav was introduced, a portion of his or her contributions
   note 33 in   d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .              went toward financing this prior commitment.
that note also includes further information about the stock-
based employee investment plans.                                             members of the managing board are entitled to benefits un-
                                                                             der the bsav on reaching age 60, at the earliest. as a rule, the
share ownership guidelines                                                   accrued pension benefit balance is paid out to the managing
the siemens share ownership guidelines are an integral part                  board member in twelve annual installments. at the request
of the remuneration system for the managing board and s­ enior               of the managing board member or of his or her surviving de-
 executives. these guidelines require the members of the                     pendents, the pension benefit balance may also be paid out
­
managing board – after a certain buildup phase – to hold                     in fewer installments or as a lump sum, subject to the compa-
siemens stock worth a multiple of their base compensation                    ny ’s consent. the accrued pension benefit balance may also
(300% for the president and ceo, 200% for the other members                  be paid out as a pension. as a further alternative, the manag-
of the managing board) during their term of office on the                    ing board member may choose a combination of payment in
­managing board. the determining figure in this context is the               one to twelve installments and payment of a pension. if the
 average base compensation that the relevant member of the                   pension option is chosen, a decision must be made as to
 managing board has drawn over the four years of the buildup                 whether it should include pensions for surviving dependents.
 phase. accordingly, changes that have been made to the base                 if a member of the managing board dies while receiving a
 compensation in the meantime are included. non-forfeitable                  pension, benefits will be paid to the member’s surviving de-
 stock awards (bonus awards) are taken into account in deter-                pendents if the member has chosen such benefits. the com-
 mining compliance with the share ownership guidelines.                      pany will then provide a limited-term pension to surviving




155   c.   combined ­management report       253   d.   consolidated f
                                                                     ­ inancial statements        357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                131

      children until they reach age 27, or age 25 in the case of com-             is entitled to a severance payment in the amount of not more
      mitments made on or after january 1, 2007.                                  than two years’ compensation. the calculation of the annual
                                                                                  compensation includes not only the base compensation and
      benefits from the retirement benefit system that was in place               the target amount for the bonus, but also the target amount
      before the bsav are normally granted as pension benefits with               for the stock awards, in each case based on the most recent
      a surviving dependents’ pension. in this case as well, a payout             completed fiscal year prior to termination of the contract. the
      in installments or a lump sum may be chosen instead of pen-                 stock-based components for which a firm commitment already
      sion payments.                                                              exists will remain unaffected. there is no entitlement to a
                                                                                  ­severance payment if the managing board member receives
      members of the managing board who were employed by the                       benefits from third parties in connection with a change of
      company on or before september 30, 1983, are entitled to transi-             ­control. moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change
      tion payments for the first six months after retirement, equal to             of control occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a
      the difference between their final base compensation and the                  managing board member‘s retirement.
      retirement benefits payable under the corporate pension plan.
                                                                                   additionally, compensatory or severance payments cover
      commitments in connection with termination                                   non-monetary benefits by including an amount of 5% of the
      of managing board membership                                                 total compensation or severance amount. compensatory
      managing board contracts provide for a compensatory pay-                     or severance payments will be reduced by 15% as a lump-sum
      ment if membership on the managing board is terminated pre-                  allowance for discounted values and for income earned else-
      maturely without serious cause. the amount of this payment                   where. however, this reduction will apply only to the portion
      must not exceed the value of two years‘ compensation and                     of the compensatory or severance payment that was calcu-
      compensate no more than the remaining term of the contract                   lated without taking account of the first six months of the
      (cap). the amount of the compensatory payment is calculated                 ­remaining term of the managing board member’s contract.
      on the basis of the base compensation, the variable compen-
      sation (bonus), and the long-term stock-based compensation                  if a member leaves the managing board, the variable compo-
      (stock awards) actually received during the last fiscal year be-            nent (bonus) is determined pro rata temporis after the end of
      fore termination. the compensatory payment is payable in the                the fiscal year in which the appointment was terminated and
      month when the member leaves the managing board. in addi-                   is settled in cash at the usual payout or transfer date, as the
      tion, a one-time exceptional contribution is made to the bsav.              case may be. if the employment contract is terminated in the
      the amount of this contribution is based on the bsav contri-                course of an appointment period, the non-forfeitable stock
      bution that the board member received in the previous year,                 awards (bonus awards) for which the waiting period is still in
      and on the remaining term of the appointment, but is limited                progress remain in effect without restriction. if the employ-
      to not more than two years’ contributions (cap). the above                  ment agreement is terminated because of retirement, disabili-
      benefits are not paid if an amicable termination of the mem-                ty or death, a managing board member’s bonus awards will be
      ber’s activity on the managing board is agreed upon at the                  settled in cash as of the date of departure from the board.
      member‘s request, or if there is serious cause for the company
      to terminate the employment relationship.                                   stock commitments that were made as long-term stock-based
                                                                                  compensation (stock awards), and for which the restriction
      in the event of a change of control that results in a substantial           period is still in progress will normally forfeit without replace-
      change in the position of the managing board member (e.g.,                  ment if the employment agreement is terminated in the course
      due to a change in corporate strategy or a change in the man-               of an appointment period. the same applies if the employ-
      aging board member’s duties and responsibilities), the mem-                 ment agreement is not extended after the end of an appoint-
      ber of the managing board has the right to terminate his or                 ment period, either at the board member’s request or because
      her contract with the company for good cause. a change of                   there is serious cause that would have entitled the company to
      control exists if one or more shareholders acting jointly or in             revoke the appointment or terminate the contract. however,
      concert acquire a majority of the voting rights in siemens ag               once granted, stock awards do not forfeit if the employment
      and exercise a controlling influence, or if siemens ag becomes              agreement is terminated because of retirement, disability,
      a dependent enterprise as a result of entering into an inter-               or death, or in connection with a spinoff, the transfer of an
      company agreement within the meaning of section 291 of the                  operation, or a change of activity within the corporate group.
      ­
      german stock corporation act, or if siemens ag is to be                     in this case, the stock awards will remain in effect upon termi-
      merged into an existing corporation or other entity. if this                nation of the employment agreement and will be honored on
      right of termination is exercised, the managing board member                expiration of the restriction period.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.    corporate ­governance
132
                                                   118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                   124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                               c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                               section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                               (part of the combined management report)                    ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                   126   b.3   compliance report                                            ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                             (part of the combined management report)

the remuneration system for the managing board members                       variable compensation (bonus)                                                         the number of stock commitments (bonus awards and stock              agreed with ms. ederer to reimburse out-of-pocket expenses
applicable as of fiscal 2014 will be submitted for approval to the           in setting the targets for the variable compensation (bonus) at                       awards) granted was based on the closing price of siemens            up to a maximum of €30,000 plus value-added tax. the stock
annual shareholders‘ meeting on january 28, 2014. for a de-                  the beginning of fiscal 2013, the supervisory board took into                         stock in xetra trading on the date of award less the present         awards that were granted in the past for fiscal 2010, 2011 and
scription of the revisions compared to the remuneration system               account that the company continues to focus on a sustainable                          value of dividends expected during the holding period, be-           2012 and for which the restriction period is still in effect, will
currently in place, see     b.4.1.4 revisions of the remuneration            appreciation of value. this focus is intended to enable the                           cause beneficiaries are not entitled to receive dividends. this      be absolutely maintained, see    b.4.1.3 additional information

system for the managing board for fiscal 2014 .                              company to maintain its financial flexibility and hold its own                        figure for determining the number of commitments amount-             on stock-based compensation instruments in fiscal 2013 .

                                                                             against competitors in periods of high market volatility:                             ed to €80.88 (2012: €64.93).
b.4.1.2 remuneration of the members                                                                                                                                                                                                     in determining the amount of the compensatory payments for
of the managing board for fiscal 2013                                        > the emphasis in terms of the sustainable enhancement of                             benefits associated with termination                                 mr. löscher and ms. ederer, in accordance with the terms of
on the basis of our one siemens target system, at the begin-                   value is on capital efficiency and capital structure. this was                      of managing board membership                                         their contracts with the company, the base compensation for
ning of the fiscal year the supervisory board set the targets                  taken into account in weighting the two target parameters                           in connection with the mutually agreed premature termination         fiscal 2013 and the variable compensation and long-term stock-
and weighting for the unchanged parameters compared to the                     of roce adjusted, and free cash flow.                                               of the managing board membership of former president and             based compensation actually received for fiscal 2012 were ap-
previous year: organic revenue growth, return on capital em-                 > the target for organic revenue growth allowed for the great                         ceo peter löscher as of july 31, 2013, it was agreed that his        plied and limited, as applicable, to either two annual payments
ployed (roce) adjusted, and free cash flow, in each case on the                uncertainty of the competitive environment and the goal of                          contract with the company would terminate as of september            in total or the compensation for the remaining terms of their
basis of continuing operations, together with eps. the defini-                 capital-efficient growth.                                                           30, 2013. his entitlements agreed under the contract remained        appointments. the portion of compensatory payments that
tion of these parameters and their weighting acknowledges a                  > the target for roce adjusted allowed for the first-time appli-                      in effect until that date. a compensatory payment in a gross         was calculated excluding the first six months of the remaining
sustainable enhancement of corporate value. an internal re-                    cation of the revised ias 19r reporting standard. the expec-                        amount of €14,803,005 was agreed upon with mr. löscher in            contract term was reduced by 15% as a lump-sum allowance
view of the appropriateness of the managing board’s compen-                    tations for business in fiscal 2013 as well as the “siemens                         connection with the mutually agreed premature termination            for discounted values and for income earned elsewhere. in ad-
sation for fiscal 2013 has confirmed that the remuneration of                  2014” program were also considered.                                                 of his activity as president and ceo, together with a one-time       dition, non-monetary benefits were covered by a payment in
the managing board resulting from the target attainment for                  > the target for free cash flow was maintained at the prior                           special contribution of €2,240,000 to the bsav, to be credited       the amount of 5% of the compensatory payment.
fiscal 2013 is to be considered appropriate. following the deci-               year’s level, which represented a noticeable increase at that                       in january 2014. it was also agreed with mr. löscher that his
sion on determining the achievement of the targets set at the                  time. the trend towards lower advance payments by cus-                              long-term stock-based compensation (stock awards) for fiscal         total compensation
beginning of the fiscal year, the supervisory board decided at                 tomers was also taken into account.                                                 2013 will be calculated after the actual target attainment is        on the basis of the decisions by the supervisory board
its meeting on november 6, 2013, to set the variable compen-                                                                                                       available and awarded at the usual date. these 28,077 stock          described above, managing board compensation for fiscal 2013
sation component (bonus), the stock awards to be granted                     as a consequence, the following targets were set and attained                         awards will be settled in cash according to the provisions of        totaled €34.58 million, a decrease of 12.7% (2012: €39.61 mil-
and the pension benefit contributions as follows:                            with respect to the variable compensation (bonus):                                    the contract as no employment relationship will be in place at       lion). of this total amount, €16.98 million (2012: €17.45 million)
                                                                                                                                                                   the date of award. the company has furthermore agreed with           was attributable to cash compensation and €17.60 million
                                                                                                                                                                   mr. löscher to reimburse out-of-pocket expenses up to a max-         (2012: €22.16 million) to stock-based compensation. thus,
 target parameter                                                                    weight    100% of target     actual 2013 figure     target attainment         imum of €100,000 plus value-added tax. for his part, mr.             more than half of the compensation was paid in the form of
 revenue growth (organic) 1                                                             20%          (0.5)%                   (1.1)%              87.80%           löscher has agreed not to work for any significant competitor        stock-based instruments with waiting or restriction periods of
 roce adjusted 1                                                                        40%           15.1%                   13.8%               67.75%           of siemens ag for a period of two years after the end of his         four years, and therefore on a deferred basis.
 free cash flow 1                                                                       40%   €3,600 million       €5,257 million               155.24%            employment contract, i.e., until september 30, 2015; siemens
 target attainment (calculative)                                                                                                                106.76%            will not provide additional compensation for this post-              the compensation for fiscal 2013 presented in the following
                                                                                                                                                                   contractual non-compete commitment. however, the stock               table not only takes account of the applicable reporting stan-
       1   continuing operations.                                                                                                                                  awards that were granted in the past for fiscal 2010, 2011 and       dards, but also of the new recommendations of the gcgc
                                                                                                                                                                   2012 and for which the restriction period is still in effect, will   with regard to the disclosure of remuneration of the manag-
the values measured for target attainment were not adjusted.                 long-term stock-based compensation                                                    be absolutely maintained, see       b.4.1.3 additional informa-      ing board. consequently, the information is set forth in a
in an overall assessment of all relevant aspects, the supervisory            for half of the annual target amount for the stock awards, an                         tion on stock-based compensation instruments in fiscal 2013 .        model table recommended by the code and shows the value
board decided, exercising its duty-bound discretion (pflicht-                average basic eps of €5.46 was determined for fiscal years 2011                                                                                            of benefits granted for the year under review. the figures pre-
gemäßes ermessen), to adjust the bonus payout amounts re-                    through 2013, yielding a target attainment of 118%.                                   in connection with the mutually agreed premature termina-            sented also include the attainable minimums or maximums,
sulting from target attainment downward for all managing                                                                                                           tion of the managing board membership of former managing             as applicable. the fair values shown for granted stock-based
board members resulting in target attainment of 95% for the                  for the other half of the annual target amount for the stock                          board member brigitte ederer as of september 30, 2013, it            compensation were calculated on the basis of the applicable
determination of the payout amounts of the variable compen-                  awards, the supervisory board approved a number of stock                              was agreed upon that her contract with the company would             reporting standards. the transfer of one share per award will
sation (bonus). in its decision, the supervisory board, among                awards equivalent to the monetary value of half the target                            end at the same time. a compensatory payment in a gross              not take place until the expiration of the four-year waiting or
other factors took into account that the company did not meet                amount on the award date. the amount by which these stock                             amount of €5,600,019 was agreed upon with ms. ederer in              restriction period, i.e., not until november 2017. the number
its expectations compared to competitors, especially with re-                commitments must be adjusted – or an additional cash pay-                             connection with the mutually agreed premature termination            of stock awards linked to the performance of the price of
gard to profitability.                                                       ment must be made – after the end of the restriction period                           of her activity as managing board member, together with a            siemens stock will be adjusted after the end of the restriction
                                                                             will depend on the performance of siemens stock compared to                           one-time special contribution of €882,000 to the bsav, to be         period, on the basis of the actual target attainment. accord-
in addition, the supervisory board reflected the performance of              the stock of five competitors (abb, general electric, philips,                        credited in january 2014. it was also agreed with ms. ederer         ingly, the value of the actual shares transferred may be high-
individual managing board members and decided upon further                   rockwell, schneider) over the coming four years, and will                             that her long-term stock-based compensation (stock awards)           er or lower than shown here, also depending on the stock
individual adjustments for certain managing board members.                   therefore not be determined until after the end of fiscal 2017.                       for fiscal 2013 will be calculated after the actual target attain-   price in effect at the time of transfer.
                                                                                                                                                                   ment is available and awarded at the usual date. these 13,477
                                                                                                                                                                   stock awards will be settled in cash according to the provi-         the compensation presented on the following pages was
                                                                                                                                                                   sions of the contract as no employment relationship will be in       granted to the members of the managing board for fiscal 2013
                                                                                                                                                                   place at the date of award. the company has furthermore              (individualized disclosure)
155   c.   combined management report         253   d.   consolidated financial statements          357   e.    additional information
                                                                                                                                                             133

     managing board members serving as of september 30, 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 joe kaeser 8                                              dr. roland busch                                                      brigitte ederer 9
                                                                                                                                                                                                    president and ceo since august 1, 2013                    member with responsibilities for sector portfolio                                   member of the managing board
                                                                                                                                                                                  fy 2012           fy 2013           fy 2013          fy 2013         fy 2012         fy 2013          fy 2013          fy 2013         fy 2012          fy 2013           fy 2013          fy 2013
(amounts in €)                                                                                                                                                                                                          (min)           (max)                                             (min)           (max)                                               (min)           (max)

non-performance-                                                        fixed compensation (base compensation)                                                                  900,000        1,113,750        1,113,750         1,113,750          900,000         967,500         967,500          967,500          900,000         900,000           900,000           900,000
based components                                                        fringe benefits1                                                                                         72,935            71,843            71,843            71,843         49,771          48,591           48,591           48,591          27,697           42,571            42,571            42,571
                                                                        total                                                                                                   972,935        1,185,593        1,185,593         1,185,593          949,771      1,016,091        1,016,091        1,016,091          927,697         942,571           942,571           942,571
performance-based            without long-term incentive                one-year variable compensation (bonus) –
components                   effect, non-stock-based                    cash component (gcgc) 2                                                                                 450,000          556,875                     0    1,336,500          450,000         483,750                  0     1,161,000          450,000         900,000                     0    2,160,000
                             with long-term incentive                   multi-year variable compensation 3, 4                                                                  2,796,444       2,542,970                     0    4,886,500         1,799,038     1,551,574                   0     3,161,000         1,860,202      1,117,734                     0    2,000,000
                             effect, stock-based                        variable compensation (bonus) – bonus awards 2, 5                                                       611,965          558,881                     0    1,336,500          550,801         433,840                  0     1,161,000          611,965                   0                 0                 0
                                                                        siemens stock awards (restriction period: 4 years)
                                                                           target attainment depending on eps for past three fiscal years 5                                    1,347,557       1,047,315                     0    3,550,000          770,005         590,020                  0     2,000,000          770,005         590,020                     0    2,000,000
                                                                           target attainment depending on future stock performance 6                                            836,922          936,774                                             478,232         527,714                                           478,232         527,714
                                                                        total                                                                                                  4,219,379       4,285,438        1,185,593         7,408,593         3,198,809     3,051,415        1,016,091        5,338,091         3,237,899      2,960,305           942,571        5,102,571
                                                                        service cost                                                                                            530,970          504,323           504,323           504,323         547,713         520,736         520,736          520,736          552,904         525,886           525,886           525,886
                                                                        total (gcgc) 7                                                                                         4,750,349       4,789,761        1,689,916         7,912,916         3,746,522     3,572,151        1,536,827        5,858,827         3,790,803      3,486,191         1,468,457        5,628,457

total compensation of all managing board members for fiscal 2013, according to the applicable reporting standards, amounted
to €34.58 million (2012: €39.61 million). the granted payout amount presented below is to be used instead of the target value
according to the gcgc for the one-year variable compensation (bonus), and service costs for pension benefits are not included.
performance-based              without long-term incentive              one-year variable compensation (bonus) –
components                     effect, non-stock-based                  cash component 2                                                                                        611,955          558,849                                             550,760         433,819                                           611,955         855,148
total compensation                                                                                                                                                             4,381,334       4,287,412                                            3,299,569     3,001,484                                           3,399,854      2,915,453




     managing board members serving as of september 30, 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                                       prof. dr. siegfried russwurm 8                                                   peter y. solmssen 10                                                    dr. michael süß
                                                                                                                                                                                          member with responsibilities for sector portfolio                                    member of the managing board                     member with responsibilities for sector portfolio



                                                                                                                                                                                  fy 2012           fy 2013           fy 2013          fy 2013         fy 2012         fy 2013          fy 2013          fy 2013         fy 2012          fy 2013           fy 2013          fy 2013
(amounts in €)                                                                                                                                                                                                          (min)           (max)                                             (min)           (max)                                               (min)           (max)

non-performance-                                                        fixed compensation (base compensation)                                                                  900,000          967,500           967,500           967,500         900,000         900,000         900,000          900,000          900,000         967,500           967,500           967,500
based components                                                        fringe benefits1                                                                                         42,146            42,134            42,134            42,134         33,498          32,977           32,977           32,977          49,089           36,158            36,158            36,158
                                                                        total                                                                                                   942,146        1,009,634        1,009,634         1,009,634          933,498         932,977         932,977          932,977          949,089       1,003,658         1,003,658        1,003,658
performance-based            without long-term incentive                one-year variable compensation (bonus) –
components                   effect, non-stock-based                    cash component (gcgc) 2                                                                                 450,000          483,750                     0    1,161,000          450,000         450,000                  0     1,080,000          450,000         483,750                     0    1,161,000
                             with long-term incentive                   multi-year variable compensation 3, 4                                                                  1,860,202       1,856,952                     0    3,661,000         1,860,202     1,545,347                   0     3,080,000         1,860,202      1,577,456                     0    3,161,000
                             effect, stock-based                        variable compensation (bonus) – bonus awards 2, 5                                                       611,965          459,722                     0    1,161,000          611,965         427,613                  0     1,080,000          611,965         459,722                     0    1,161,000
                                                                        siemens stock awards (restriction period: 4 years)
                                                                           target attainment depending on eps for past three fiscal years 5                                     770,005          737,545                     0    2,500,000          770,005         590,020                  0     2,000,000          770,005         590,020                     0    2,000,000
                                                                           target attainment depending on future stock performance 6                                            478,232          659,685                                             478,232         527,714                                           478,232         527,714
                                                                        total                                                                                                  3,252,348       3,350,336        1,009,634         5,831,634         3,243,700     2,928,324          932,977        5,092,977         3,259,291      3,064,864         1,003,658        5,325,658
                                                                        service cost                                                                                            546,850          519,915           519,915           519,915         553,236         526,160         526,160          526,160          558,008         530,392           530,392           530,392
                                                                        total (gcgc) 7                                                                                         3,799,198       3,870,251        1,529,549         6,351,549         3,796,936     3,454,484        1,459,137        5,619,137         3,817,299      3,595,256         1,534,050        5,856,050

total compensation of all managing board members for fiscal 2013, according to the applicable reporting standards, amounted
to €34.58 million (2012: €39.61 million). the granted payout amount presented below is to be used instead of the target value
according to the gcgc for the one-year variable compensation (bonus), and service costs for pension benefits are not included.
performance-based              without long-term incentive              one-year variable compensation (bonus) –
components                     effect, non-stock-based                  cash component 2                                                                                        611,955          459,642                                             611,955         427,574                                           611,955         459,642
total compensation                                                                                                                                                             3,414,303       3,326,228                                            3,405,655     2,905,898                                           3,421,246      3,040,756


     1   fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equiva-       in addition, the supervisory board made further             b.4.1.4. revisions of the remuneration system          €1,493,576), prof. dr. hermann requardt €1,686,929                   €500,000 (2012: €500,026), brigitte ederer €500,000            80   the supervisory board increased the annual target
         lent, of non-monetary benefits and other perqui-         adjustments on an individual basis as follows: joe        for the managing board for fiscal 2014 .                 (2012: €1,605,244), prof. dr. siegfried russwurm €1,653,844          (2012: €500,026), klaus helmrich €500,000                           amount for the monetary value of the stock awards
         sites, such as provision of company cars in the          kaeser upward by 5%; dr. roland busch downward                                                                     (2012: €1,571,872), peter y. solmssen €1,566,874 (2012:              (2012: €500,026), barbara kux €500,000 (2012: €500,026),            commitment for fiscal 2013 by 75% for joe kaeser, to
                                                                                                                        4   the expenses recognized for stock-based com-
         amount of €239,301 (2012: €257,855), contribu-           by 5% and prof. dr. hermann requardt upward by 15%.                                                                €1,566,372), dr. michael süß €1,091,934 (2012: €735,167)             prof. dr. hermann requardt €625,041 (2012: €500,026),               €1,750,000, and by 25% each for prof. dr. hermann
                                                                                                                            pensation (bonus awards and stock awards) and
         tions toward the cost of insurance in the amount                                                                                                                            and dr. ralf p. thomas €19,572 (2012: €0). the corresponding         prof. dr. siegfried russwurm €625,041 (2012: €500,026),             requardt and prof. dr. siegfried russwurm, to
                                                              3   the figures for individual maximums for multi-year        for the share matching plan for members of the
         of €88,827 (2012: €87,429), reimbursement of fees                                                                                                                           expense recognized for former president and ceo peter                peter y. solmssen €500,000 (2012: €500,026), dr. michael            €1,250,000.
                                                                  variable compensation reflect the possible maxi-          managing board in accordance with ifrs in fiscal
         for legal advice, tax advice and accommodation                                                                                                                              löscher came to €8,261,949 (2012: €3,757,710).                       süß €500,000 (2012: €500,026) and dr. ralf p. thomas
                                                                  mum as of the date of award; depending on stock           2013 and 2012 amounted to €23,160,536 and                                                                                                                                                    90   brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board
         and moving expenses, including any taxes that                                                                                                                                                                                                    €18,117 (2012: €0). the corresponding monetary value
                                                                  price performance, this value may be higher at the        €15,995,543, respectively. the following amounts     5   for stock awards for which the target attainment depends                                                                                 effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
         have been assumed in this regard as well as costs                                                                                                                                                                                                for former president and ceo peter löscher amounted to
                                                                  disbursement date after the expiration of the four-       pertained to the members of the managing                 on the eps for the past three fiscal years, and for bonus                                                                                according to the provisions of the contract, the variable
         connected with preventive medical examinations,                                                                                                                                                                                                  €1,041,654 (2012: €1,250,032).
                                                                  year waiting or restriction period. beginning in          board in fiscal 2013: joe kaeser €2,099,925              awards, the fair value at the date of award is equivalent to                                                                             compensation (bonus) for fiscal 2013 will be granted
         in the amount of €176,221 (2012: €135,625).
                                                                  fiscal 2014, in keeping with the recommendations          (2012: €1,781,626), dr. roland busch €1,091,572          the respective monetary value.                                   7   the total compensation reflects the current fair value of           fully in cash and the siemens stock awards for fiscal
     2   the supervisory board adjusted the bonus payout          of the gcgc, maximum amount limits apply for              (2012: €735,167), brigitte ederer €3,062,678                                                                                  stock-based compensation components. on the basis of                2013 will be settled in cash.
                                                                                                                                                                                 6   the monetary values referred to a 100% target attainment
         amounts resulting from target attainment for all         multi-year variable compensation and for compen-          (2012: €950,250), klaus helmrich €1,058,299                                                                                   the current monetary values of stock-based compensation
                                                                                                                                                                                     amounted to €6,197,430 (2012: €6,125,302). the following                                                                            10   peter y. solmssen will be reimbursed for relocation
         managing board members downward by 11%.                  sation overall; these are explained in section            (2012: €735,167), barbara kux €1,566,960 (2012:                                                                               components, total compensation amounted to €34,236,151
                                                                                                                                                                                     amounts pertained to the members of the managing board:                                                                                  expenses incurred by him upon termination of his
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (2012: €39,874,058).
                                                                                                                                                                                     joe kaeser €887,577 (2012: €875,062), dr. roland busch                                                                                   membership on the managing board.

                                               klaus helmrich                                                      barbara kux                          prof. dr. hermann requardt 8
                                member of the managing board                                    member of the managing board               member with responsibilities for sector portfolio
       fy 2012          fy 2013           fy 2013          fy 2013        fy 2012        fy 2013         fy 2013        fy 2013      fy 2012        fy 2013         fy 2013         fy 2013
                                            (min)           (max)                                          (min)         (max)                                        (min)          (max)

    900,000           900,000          900,000          900,000        900,000         900,000          900,000       900,000      900,000       967,500         967,500         967,500
      76,961           68,329            68,329           68,329         33,960          68,048          68,048        68,048       64,132         65,544          65,544          65,544
    976,961           968,329          968,329          968,329        933,960         968,048          968,048       968,048      964,132     1,033,044       1,033,044       1,033,044

    450,000           450,000                   0     1,080,000        450,000         450,000                0      1,080,000     450,000       483,750                  0    1,161,000
  1,860,202        1,545,347                    0     3,080,000       1,860,202      1,545,347                0      3,080,000    1,921,431    1,934,354                  0    3,661,000
    611,965           427,613                   0     1,080,000        611,965         427,613                0      1,080,000     673,194       537,124                  0    1,161,000


    770,005           590,020                   0     2,000,000        770,005         590,020                0      2,000,000     770,005       737,545                  0    2,500,000
    478,232           527,714                                          478,232         527,714                                     478,232       659,685
  3,287,163        2,963,676           968,329        5,128,329       3,244,162      2,963,395          968,048      5,128,048    3,335,563    3,451,148       1,033,044       5,855,044
    547,675           520,698          520,698          520,698        552,800         525,734          525,734       525,734      526,202       499,761         499,761         499,761
  3,834,838        3,484,374         1,489,027        5,649,027       3,796,962      3,489,129      1,493,782        5,653,782    3,861,765    3,950,909       1,532,805       6,354,805




    611,955           427,574                                          611,955         427,574                                     673,151       537,110
  3,449,118        2,941,250                                          3,406,117      2,940,969                                    3,558,714    3,504,508




                                           dr. ralf p. thomas                       peter löscher 11
                                  cfo since september 18, 2013                      member of the
                                                                       managing board and president
                                                                          and ceo until july 31, 2013
       fy 2012          fy 2013           fy 2013          fy 2013           fy 2012         fy 2013
                                            (min)           (max)

              –        34,938            34,938           34,938         2,000,000       1,666,667
              –          2,465            2,465             2,465            30,720         25,689
              –        37,403            37,403           37,403         2,030,720       1,692,356

              –        17,469                   0         41,926         1,000,000       1,666,667
              –        57,134                   0       114,148          4,480,553       2,328,604
              –        16,661                   0         41,926         1,359,959                 0
              –
              –        21,352                   0         72,222         1,925,045       1,229,214
              –        19,121                                            1,195,549       1,099,390
              –       112,006            37,403         193,477          7,511,273       5,687,627
              –       208,034          208,034          208,034          1,235,653       1,171,716
              –       320,040          245,437          401,511          8,746,926       6,859,343




              –        16,598                                            1,359,900       1,583,607
              –       111,135                                            7,871,173       5,604,567


11 peter löscher resigned from the managing board effective
    july 31, 2013; his employment agreement ended effective
    september 30, 2013. in addition to mr. löscher’s reported
    total compensation as a member of the managing board and
    as president and ceo, he also received the following compen-
    sation for the remaining term of his employment contract
    in the months of august and september 2013: fixed compen-
    sation of €333,333, fringe benefits of €5,138, proportional
    variable compensation (bonus) of €316,721, and proportional
    siemens stock awards of €465,690. according to the provi-
    sions of the contract, the variable compensation (bonus) for
    fiscal 2013 will be granted fully in cash and the siemens stock
    awards for fiscal 2013 will be settled in cash.                                                                                                                                      137

      allocations                                                                                             were subscribed, as well as the expense of pension benefits. in
      the following table shows allocations during or for fiscal 2013,                                        deviation from the multi-year variable compensation granted
      as the case may be, for fixed compensation, fringe benefits,                                            for fiscal 2013 and shown above, this table includes the actual
      one-year variable compensation, and multi-year variable com-                                            figure for multi-year variable compensation granted in previ-
      pensation, broken down by the relevant years for which they                                             ous years and allocated in fiscal 2013.

            managing board members serving as of september 30, 2013

                                                                                                                                                                                               joe kaeser
                                                                                                                                                                                          president and ceo
                                                                                                                                                                                        since august 1, 2013
       (amounts in €)                                                                                                                                                             fy 2012            fy 2013
       non-performance-                                                                      fixed compensation (base compensation)                                            900,000          1,113,750
       based components                                                                      fringe benefits1                                                                    72,935             71,843
                                                                                             total                                                                             972,935          1,185,593
       performance-based             without long-term incentive                             one-year variable compensation (bonus) –
       components                    effect, non-stock-based                                 cash component 2                                                                  611,955             558,849
                                     with long-term incentive                                multi-year variable compensation                                                2,212,054          1,426,193
                                     effect, stock-based                                        siemens stock awards (restriction period: 2009 – 2012)                                  0       1,299,629
                                                                                                siemens stock awards (restriction period: 2008 – 2011)                       1,935,766                      0
                                                                                                share matching plan (vesting period: 2010 – 2012)                                       0          126,564
                                                                                                share matching plan (vesting period: 2009 – 2011)                              276,288                      0
                                                                                             other                                                                                      0                   0
                                                                                             total                                                                           3,796,944          3,170,635
                                                                                             service cost                                                                      530,970             504,323
                                                                                             total (gcgc)                                                                    4,327,914          3,674,958




            managing board members serving as of september 30, 2013

                                                                                                                                                                         prof. dr. siegfried russwurm
                                                                                                                                                                              member with responsibilities
                                                                                                                                                                                      for sector portfolio

       (amounts in €)                                                                                                                                                             fy 2012            fy 2013
       non-performance-                                                                      fixed compensation (base compensation)                                            900,000             967,500
       based components                                                                      fringe benefits1                                                                    42,146             42,134
                                                                                             total                                                                             942,146          1,009,634
       performance-based             without long-term incentive                             one-year variable compensation (bonus) –
       components                    effect, non-stock-based                                 cash component 2                                                                  611,955             459,642
                                     with long-term incentive                                multi-year variable compensation                                                2,288,812          1,342,022
                                     effect, stock-based                                        siemens stock awards (restriction period: 2009 – 2012)                                  0       1,299,629
                                                                                                siemens stock awards (restriction period: 2008 – 2011)                       1,935,766                      0
                                                                                                share matching plan (vesting period: 2010 – 2012)                                       0           42,393
                                                                                                share matching plan (vesting period: 2009 – 2011)                              353,046                      0
                                                                                             other                                                                                      0                   0
                                                                                             total                                                                           3,842,913          2,811,298
                                                                                             service cost                                                                      546,850             519,915
                                                                                             total (gcgc)                                                                    4,389,763          3,331,213


            1 fringe benefits include costs, or the cash equivalent, of               costs connected with preventive medical examinations,            dr. roland busch downward by 5% and prof. dr. hermann
               non-monetary benefits and other perquisites, such as                    in the amount of €176,221 (2012: €135,625).                      requardt upward by 15%. the one-year variable com-
               provision of company cars in the amount of €239,301                                                                                      pensation (bonus) – cash component – presented above
                                                                                 2 the supervisory board adjusted the bonus payout
               (2012: €257,855), contributions toward the cost of                                                                                       therefore includes the amount awarded for fiscal 2013,
                                                                                    amounts resulting from target attainment for all manag-
               insurance in the amount of €88,827 (2012: €87,429),                                                                                      which will be paid out in january 2014.
                                                                                    ing board members downward by 11%. in addition, the
               reimbursement of fees for legal advice, tax advice and
                                                                                    supervisory board made further adjustments on an                 3 brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board
               accommodation and moving expenses, including any
                                                                                    individual basis as follows: joe kaeser upward by 5%;               effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
               taxes that have been assumed in this regard as well as




      92   a.   to our shareholders                                        117   b.      corporate ­governance
138
                                                                           118   b.1     corporate governance report                           129     b.4       compensation report
                                                                           124   b.2      orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                                         c                                                                        (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                                         section 289a of the ­german commercial code           148     b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                                         (part of the combined management report)                              ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                           126   b.3     compliance report                                                      ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                                                                 (part of the combined management report)

                dr. roland busch                        brigitte ederer 3                        klaus helmrich                            barbara kux         prof. dr. hermann requardt
       member with responsibilities                         member of the                            member of the                         member of the            member with responsibilities
               for sector portfolio                        managing board                           managing board                        managing board                    for sector portfolio
            fy 2012          fy 2013             fy 2012            fy 2013               fy 2012            fy 2013           fy 2012             fy 2013             fy 2012          fy 2013
       900,000             967,500            900,000             900,000              900,000             900,000           900,000              900,000            900,000          967,500
            49,771          48,591              27,697              42,571               76,961             68,329            33,960               68,048             64,132           65,544
       949,771           1,016,091            927,697             942,571              976,961             968,329           933,960              968,048            964,132        1,033,044

       550,760             433,819            611,955             855,148              611,955             427,574           611,955              427,574            673,151          537,110
       273,058             183,382            304,566             227,441              391,094             292,379                    0         1,192,671          2,167,117        1,381,376
                 0         178,145                     0          227,441                       0          292,379                    0         1,137,126                    0      1,299,629
       215,579                      0         304,566                       0          310,250                         0              0                   0        1,935,766                  0
                 0            5,237                    0                    0                   0                      0              0            55,545                    0         81,747
            57,479                  0                  0                    0            80,844                        0              0                   0          231,351                  0
                 0                  0                  0                    0                   0                      0              0                   0                  0                0
      1,773,589          1,633,292          1,844,218          2,025,160             1,980,010          1,688,282          1,545,915            2,588,293          3,804,400        2,951,530
       547,713             520,736            552,904             525,886              547,675             520,698           552,800              525,734            526,202          499,761
      2,321,302          2,154,028          2,397,122          2,551,046             2,527,685          2,208,980          2,098,715            3,114,027          4,330,602        3,451,291




               peter y. solmssen                        dr. michael süß                       dr. ralf p. thomas                               peter löscher 4
                       member of the         member with responsibilities                                     cfo                           member of the
                      managing board                 for sector portfolio                 since september 18, 2013             managing board and president
                                                                                                                                  and ceo until july 31, 2013
            fy 2012          fy 2013             fy 2012            fy 2013               fy 2012            fy 2013                fy 2012             fy 2013
       900,000             900,000            900,000             967,500                       0           34,938             2,000,000           1,666,667
            33,498          32,977              49,089              36,158                      0             2,465                30,720              25,689
       933,498             932,977            949,089          1,003,658                        0           37,403             2,030,720           1,692,356

       611,955             427,574            611,955             459,642                       0           16,598             1,359,900           1,583,607
      2,379,441          1,299,629            647,466             477,239                       0                      0       4,839,378           3,248,954
                 0       1,299,629                     0          477,239                       0                      0                   0       3,248,954
      1,935,766                     0         647,466                       0                   0                      0       4,839,378                       0
                 0                  0                  0                    0                   0                      0                   0                   0
       443,675                      0                  0                    0                   0                      0                   0                   0
                 0                  0                  0                    0                   0                      0                   0                   0
      3,924,894          2,660,180          2,208,510          1,940,539                        0           54,001             8,229,998           6,524,917
       553,236             526,160            558,008             530,392                       0          208,034             1,235,653           1,171,716
      4,478,130          3,186,340          2,766,518          2,470,931                        0          262,035             9,465,651           7,696,633


   according to the provisions of the contract, the variable compensation                and ceo, presented above, peter löscher received the following compen­
   (bonus) for fiscal 2013 will be granted fully in cash.                                sation for the remaining term of his employment agreement, for the
                                                                                         months of august and september 2013: fixed compensation of €333,333,
4 peter löscher resigned from the managing board effective july 31, 2013; his
                                                                                         fringe benefits of €5,138, and a proportionate variable compensation
   employment agreement ended effective september 30, 2013. according to
                                                                                         (bonus) of €316,721.
   the provisions of the contract, the variable compensation (bonus) for fiscal
   2013 will be granted fully in cash. in addition to the compensation paid
   to him for fiscal 2013 as a member of the managing board and as president




155    c.     combined ­management report                          253   d.       consolidated f
                                                                                               ­ inancial statements                 357   e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   139

      pension benefit commitments                                                                           the contributions under the bsav are added to the personal
      for fiscal 2013, the members of the managing board were                                               pension accounts each january following the close of the fis-
      granted contributions under the bsav totaling €6.4 million                                            cal year, with value date on january 1. until the beneficiary ’s
      (2012: €5.7 million), based on a resolution of the supervisory                                        time of retirement, the pension account is credited with an an-
      board dated november 6, 2013. of this amount, €6.3 million                                            nual interest payment (guaranteed interest), currently 1.75%,
      (2012: €5.6 million) related to contributions to their personal                                       on january 1 of each year.
      pension accounts and the remaining €0.1 million (2012: €0.1
      million) to funding of pension commitments earned prior to                                            the following table shows individualized details of the contri-
      transfer to the bsav.                                                                                 butions (additions) under the bsav for fiscal 2013 as well as
                                                                                                            the defined benefit obligations for the pension commitments.



                                                                                                                      total contributions 1 for          defined benefit obligation 2 for all pension
                                                                                                                                                   ­commitments excluding deferred compensation  3
       (amounts in €)                                                                                     fy 2013                       fy 2012                    fy 2013                       fy 2012
       managing board members
       serving as of september 30, 2013
       joe kaeser                                                                                    1,033,200                         504,000                5,580,345                     4,388,859
       dr. roland busch                                                                                541,800                         504,000                2,008,718                     1,446,910
       brigitte ederer 4                                                                               504,000                         504,000                2,446,9512                    1,102,958
       klaus helmrich                                                                                  504,000                         504,000                2,248,901                     1,723,759
       barbara kux                                                                                     504,000                         504,000                2,740,4792                    2,201,9632
       prof. dr. hermann requardt                                                                      541,800                         504,000                5,094,071                     4,433,581
       prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                                                    541,800                         504,000                3,490,629                     2,893,761
       peter y. solmssen                                                                               504,000                         504,000               15,750,8832                  14,862,4702
       dr. michael süß                                                                                 541,800                         504,000                2,353,756                     1,789,619
       dr. ralf p. thomas 5                                                                              19,565                              –                1,970,651                                   –

       former members of the managing board
       peter löscher 6                                                                               1,120,000                    1,120,000                  18,307,5542                  14,717,3952
       total                                                                                         6,355,965                    5,656,000                 61,992,938                    51,936,101


            1 the expenses (service costs) recognized in accordance               €882,000 (2012: €0) for brigitte ederer, €340,000         4 brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board
               with ifrs in fiscal 2013 for managing board members’                (2012: €340,000) for barbara kux and €10,518,000             ­effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
               entitlements under the bsav in fiscal 2013 amounted                 (2012: €10,518,000) for peter y. solmssen.
                                                                                                                                             5 dr. ralf p. thomas was elected a full member of the
               to €6,053,355 (2012: €6,152,011).
                                                                             3 deferred compensation totals €8,595,135 (2012:                  managing board effective september 18, 2013.
            2 the defined benefit obligations reflect one-time spe-            €7,543,061), including €2,914,462 for joe kaeser
                                                                                                                                             6 peter löscher resigned from the managing board
               cial contributions to the bsav of €22,480,000 (2012:             (2012: €2,755,189), €276,893 for klaus helmrich
                                                                                                                                                ­effective july 31, 2013; his employment agreement
               €19,358,000) for new appointments from outside the               (2012: €269,147), €4,082,366 for barbara kux
                                                                                                                                                 ended effective september 30, 2013.
               company, as well as special contributions in connection          (2012: €3,280,486), €1,275,259 for prof. dr. hermann
               with departure from the managing board, in the amount            requardt (2012: €1,238,239) and €46,155 (2012: €0)
               of €10,740,000 (2012: €8,500,000) for peter löscher,             for dr. ralf p. thomas.




      former members of the managing board and their surviving                                              compensation for the remaining term of his employment con-
      dependents received emoluments within the meaning of sec-                                              tract, i.e. for the months of august and september 2013, as
      tion 314 para. 1 no. 6 b of the hgb totaling €33.1 million (2012:                                      well as a one-time special contribution to the bsav. former
      €15.8 million) in fiscal 2013. this figure includes cash compen-                                      president and ceo of the managing board peter löscher re-
      sation for the stock commitments for former managing board                                            ceived 5,615 stock awards pro-rata for the months of august
      member wolfgang dehen as a result of the spinoff of osram                                             and september 2013, which will be settled in cash according
      from the corporate group. furthermore it includes the com-                                            to the provisions of the contract. other than this, former
      pensatory payment connected with the mutually agreed pre-                                             ­
                                                                                                            managing board members and their surviving dependents
      mature termination of the managing board membership of                                                ­received no stock awards (2012: no stock awards).
      former president and ceo peter löscher as of july 31, 2013, the




      92   a.   to our shareholders                                    117    b.       corporate ­governance
140
                                                                       118    b.1      corporate governance report                          129   b.4       compensation report
                                                                       124    b.2       orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                                       c                                                                     (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                                       section 289a of the ­german commercial code          148   b.5   takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                                       (part of the combined management report)                           ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                       126    b.3      compliance report                                                   ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                                                            (part of the combined management report)

the defined benefit obligation (dbo) of all pension commit-                                         b.4.1.3 additional information on stock-based
ments to former members of the managing board and their                                             compensation instruments in fiscal 2013
surviving dependents as of september 30, 2013, amounted to                                          this section provides information concerning the stock com-
€192.5 million (2012: €181.6 million). this figure is included in                                   mitments held by members of the managing board that were
  note 23 in    d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .                                    components of stock-based compensation in fiscal 2013 and
                                                                                                    prior years, and also concerning the managing board mem-
other                                                                                                       titlements to matching shares under the siemens
                                                                                                    bers’ en­
no loans or advances from the company are provided to mem-                                          share matching plan.
bers of the managing board.
                                                                                                    stock commitments
                                                                                                    the following table shows the changes in the stock commit-
                                                                                                    ments (bonus awards and stock awards) held by managing
                                                                                                    board members in fiscal 2013:



                                                 balance at beginning of                         granted during fiscal year 1       vested and          forfeited                balance at end of
                                                              fiscal 2013                                                           transferred­           during                     fiscal 2013 2
                                                                                                                                         during        fiscal year
                                                                                                                                     fiscal year
                                                                                                   forfeitable commitments
                                                                                                             of stock awards
                                                    non-                               non-           (target           (target       commit-                                non-
                                              forfeitable      forfeitable       forfeitable      attainment       attainment         ments of                         forfeitable      forfeitable
                                                commit-          commit-           commit-        depending        depending            bonus           commit-          commit-          commit-
                                                ments of         ments of          ments of        on eps for        on future      awards and          ments of         ments of         ments of
                                                   bonus            stock             bonus        past three        stock per-          stock            stock             bonus            stock
 (amounts in number of units)                    awards           awards            awards       fiscal years)      formance)          awards            awards           awards          awards3
 managing board
 members serving as of
 september 30, 2012
 joe kaeser                                     15,394           49,657             9,425           20,754            13,477             16,451                 –         24,819           67,437
 dr. roland busch                                 7,697          16,490             8,483           11,859              7,701             2,255                 –         16,180           33,795
 brigitte ederer 4                              15,394           26,788             9,425           11,859              7,701             2,879                 –         24,819           43,469
 klaus helmrich                                   7,697          19,836             9,425           11,859              7,701             3,701                 –         17,122           35,695
 barbara kux                                    15,394           47,600             9,425           11,859              7,701            14,394                 –         24,819           52,766
 prof. dr. hermann requardt                     15,394           49,657            10,368           11,859              7,701            16,451                 –         25,762           52,766
 prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                   15,394           49,657             9,425           11,859              7,701            16,451                 –         24,819           52,766
 peter y. solmssen                              15,394           49,657             9,425           11,859              7,701            16,451                 –         24,819           52,766
 dr. michael süß                                  7,697          24,913             9,425           11,859              7,701             6,041                 –         17,122           38,432
 dr. ralf p. thomas 5                                   –        18,899                   –           5,218             3,388             5,264                 –                –         22,241

 former members
 of the managing board
 peter löscher 6                                34,208          124,139            20,945           29,648            19,252             41,126                 –         55,153         131,913
 total                                         149,663          477,293          105,771           150,492            97,725            141,464                 –       255,434          584,046


       1 the weighted average fair value as of the grant-date for     3 the number of forfeitable commitments of stock awards          4 brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board
          fiscal 2013 was €64.16 per granted share.                        shown here for brigitte ederer and peter löscher as              ­effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
                                                                           of the end of fiscal 2013 remains in effect in full on the
       2 amounts do not include stock commitments (bonus                                                                                5 dr. ralf p. thomas was elected a full member of the
                                                                          basis of the agreements in connection with their depar-
          awards and stock awards) awarded in november 2013                                                                                 managing board effective september 18, 2013.
                                                                          ture from the managing board; the number of stock
          for fiscal 2013. for details, see below. however, these
                                                                          awards linked to future stock performance will be              6 peter löscher resigned from the managing board effec-
          amounts may include stock awards received as compen-
                                                                          ­revised as a result of actual target attainment after the        tive july 31, 2013; his employment agreement ended
          sation by the managing board member before joining
                                                                           end of the restriction period.                                   effective september 30, 2013.
          the managing board.




155   c.   combined ­management report                           253    d.    consolidated f
                                                                                           ­ inancial statements                        357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      141

      the following table shows the stock (bonus awards and stock
      awards) awarded in november 2013 for fiscal 2013:



                                                                                                                                                                                       awarded for fiscal 1
                                                                                      non-forfeitable commitments                                              forfeitable commitments of stock awards
                                                                                                   of bonus awards
                                                                                                                               (target attainment depending                  (target attainment depending
       (amounts in number of units)                                                                                         on eps for past three fiscal years)               on future stock performance)

       managing board members
       serving as of september 30, 2013
       joe kaeser                                                                                             6,910                                        12,949                                  10,974
       dr. roland busch                                                                                       5,364                                         7,295                                   6,182
       brigitte ederer 2                                                                                            0                                       7,295                                   6,182
       klaus helmrich                                                                                         5,287                                         7,295                                   6,182
       barbara kux                                                                                            5,287                                         7,295                                   6,182
       prof. dr. hermann requardt                                                                             6,641                                         9,119                                   7,728
       prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                                                           5,684                                         9,119                                   7,728
       peter y. solmssen                                                                                      5,287                                         7,295                                   6,182
       dr. michael süß                                                                                        5,648                                         7,295                                   6,182
       dr. ralf p. thomas 3                                                                                      206                                         264                                       224

       former members of the managing board
       peter löscher 4                                                                                              0                                      15,198                                  12,879
       total                                                                                                 46,350                                        90,419                                  76,625


            1 see the information on      pages 135-137 for the corre-         3 dr. ralf p. thomas was elected a full member of the man-          see information on   page 136 . regarding the stock
               sponding fair values.                                               aging board effective september 18, 2013.                         awards awarded for his remaining contract term, for the
                                                                                                                                                     months of august and september 2013, see information
            2 brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board effec-          4 peter löscher resigned from the managing board effective
                                                                                                                                                     on     page 140 .
               tive at the end of the day on september 30, 2013. the               july 31, 2013; his employment agreement ended effective
               siemens stock awards for fiscal 2013 will be settled in             september 30, 2013. the siemens stock awards for fiscal
               cash. the cash settlement is calculated on the basis of the         2013 will be settled in cash. the cash settlement is cal­
               monetary value of the stock awards on the award date;               culated on the basis of the monetary value of the stock
               this monetary value reflects target attainment of 100%              awards on the award date; this monetary value reflects
               for stock awards for which target attainment depends on             target attainment of 100% for stock awards for which
               future stock performance, see information on      page 136 .        target attainment depends on future stock performance,




      92   a.   to our shareholders                                       117   b.     corporate ­governance
142
                                                                          118   b.1    corporate governance report                             129   b.4        compensation report
                                                                          124   b.2     orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                                       c                                                                         (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                                       section 289a of the ­german commercial code             148   b.5    t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                                       (part of the combined management report)                             ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                          126   b.3    compliance report                                                     ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                                                              (part of the combined management report)

shares from the share matching plan                                                                 matching share of siemens stock for every three siemens
in fiscal 2011, the members of the managing board were enti-                                        shares acquired and continuously held under the plan, provid-
tled for the last time to participate in the siemens share                                          ed the participants were employed without interruption at
matching plan, and under the plan were entitled to invest up                                        siemens ag or a siemens company until the end of the vesting
to 50% of the annual gross amount of their variable cash com-                                       period. the following table shows the development of the
pensation component (bonus) determined for fiscal 2010 in                                           matching share entitlements of the individual members of the
siemens shares. after expiration of a vesting period of approx-                                     managing board in fiscal 2013.
imately three years, the plan participants will receive one free



                                                            balance at beginning                            due during                      forfeited during                      balance at end
                                                                   of fiscal 2013 1                          fiscal year                           fiscal year                    of fiscal 2013 1, 2
                                                                  entitlement to                        entitlement to                      entitlement to                        entitlement to
 (amounts in number of units)                                    matching shares                       matching shares                     matching shares                       matching shares

 managing board members
 serving as of september 30, 2013
 joe kaeser                                                                  3,806                                  1,590                                   –                               2,216
 dr. roland busch                                                                66                                   66                                    –                                      –
 brigitte ederer 3                                                                 –                                   –                                    –                                      –
 klaus helmrich                                                                    3                                   –                                    –                                      3
 barbara kux                                                                    698                                  698                                    –                                      –
 prof. dr. hermann requardt                                                  2,413                                  1,027                                   –                               1,386
 prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                                   533                                  533                                    –                                      –
 peter y. solmssen                                                                 –                                   –                                    –                                      –
 dr. michael süß                                                                   –                                   –                                    –                                      –
 dr. ralf p. thomas 4                                                        2,969                                   123                                    –                               2,846

 former members
 of the managing board
 peter löscher 5                                                                   –                                   –                                    –                                      –
 total                                                                      10,488                                  4,037                                   –                               6,451


       1 amounts may include entitlements acquired before the              €152,696 (2012: €0). the entitlement of former manag-      4 dr. ralf p. thomas was elected a full member of the
          member joined the managing board.                                 ing board member peter löscher has the following fair         managing board effective september 18, 2013. the
                                                                            value: €0 (2012: €0). the above fair values also take         stated balance at the end of fiscal 2013 also includes
       2 the entitlements of the managing board members
                                                                            into account that the shares acquired under the base          the granted entitlements of matching shares (780
          serving as of september 30, 2013 had the following fair
                                                                            share program as part of the share matching plan were         shares) for fiscal 2013 prior to election as a full member
          values: joe kaeser €146,901 (2012: €222,277), dr. roland
                                                                            provided with a company subsidy (for additional infor-        of the managing board.
          busch €0 (2012: €3,464), brigitte ederer €0 (2012: €0),
                                                                            mation on the base share program see       note 33 in
          klaus helmrich €527 (2012: €527), barbara kux €0                                                                             5 peter löscher resigned from the managing board
                                                                               d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements ).
          (2012: €33,282), prof. dr. hermann requardt €92,011                                                                             ­effective july 31, 2013; his employment agreement
          (2012: €140,823), prof. dr. siegfried russwurm €0            3 brigitte ederer resigned from the managing board                 ended effective september 30, 2013.
          (2012: €25,487), peter y. solmssen €0 (2012: €0),               ­effective at the end of the day on september 30, 2013.
          dr. michael süß €0 (2012: €0) and dr. ralf p. thomas




155   c.   combined ­management report                           253   d.      consolidated ­financial statements                    357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                        143

      share ownership guidelines                                                                         following table shows the number of siemens shares held by
      different deadlines apply for the individual members of the                                        managing board members in office at september 30, 2013, as
      managing board to provide their first-time proof of compliance                                     of the deadline in march 2013 for showing compliance with
      with the siemens share ownership guidelines, depending on                                          the share ownership guidelines, and the number of siemens
      when the member was appointed to the managing board. the                                           shares to be held permanently with a view to future deadlines.



                                                                                                                                                      obligations under share ownership guidelines
       (amounts in number of units or €)                                                                     required value 1       required number of shares 2            proven number of shares 3
       managing board members serving as of september 30, 2013,
       and required to show proof as of march 8, 2013
       joe kaeser                                                                                                1,719,062                                21,730                              77,685
       barbara kux                                                                                               1,705,000                                21,552                              34,957
       prof. dr. hermann requardt                                                                                1,719,062                                21,730                              67,789
       prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                                                              1,719,062                                21,730                              66,916
       peter y. solmssen                                                                                         1,705,000                                21,552                              68,530
       total                                                                                                     8,567,186                               108,294                            315,877


            1 the amount of the obligation is based on a member’s           2 based on the average xetra opening price of €79.11 for      3 as per march 8, 2013 (date of proof), including 2011 and
               average base compensation for the four years prior to            the fourth quarter of 2012 (october – december).               2012 bonus awards.
               each review of his or her achievement of the targets
               defined by the share ownership guidelines.




      the following table shows the proof-of-compliance obligations
      of the other managing board members in view of the share
      ownership guidelines:



                                                                                                                                                      obligations under share ownership guidelines
                                                                                                                                                                                due date for initial
       (amounts in number of units or €)                                                                     required value   1
                                                                                                                                    required number of shares 2          measurement of adherence

       managing board members
       required to show proof in subsequent years
       dr. roland busch                                                                                          1,829,348                                23,124                       march 2016
       klaus helmrich                                                                                            1,800,000                                22,753                       march 2016
       dr. michael süß                                                                                           1,829,348                                23,124                       march 2016
       dr. ralf p. thomas                                                                                        1,935,000                                24,460                       march 2018
       total                                                                                                     7,393,696                                93,461


            1 the amount of the obligation is based on a member’s                defined by the share ownership guidelines. the amount     2 based on the average xetra opening price of €79.11 for
               average base compensation for the four years prior to              shown here is based on average base compensation             the fourth quarter of 2012 (october – december).
               each review of his or her achievement of the targets               since the member’s initial appointment.




      b.4.1.4 revisions of the remuneration system                                                       time, it offers members of the managing board a chance to
      for the managing board for fiscal 2014                                                             benefit from any sustained increase in the company ’s value. for
      at its meeting on november 6, 2013, the supervisory board                                          performance-based components, the target attainment range
      ­decided to revise the remuneration system for the managing                                        continues to remain between 0% and 200%, and the super­
       board as of october 1, 2013, so as to comply with the new rec-                                    visory board, as was previously the case, may revise bonus pay-
       ommendations of the german corporate governance code in                                           ments (± 20%). the new revisions define maximum amounts
       the version of may 13, 2013. the remuneration system remains                                      for stock-based components (bonus awards and stock awards),
       focused on providing an incentive for successful corporate                                        effective from fiscal 2014 onwards. moreover the compensation
       management with an emphasis on sustainability. at the same                                        overall is limited to a maximum amount of compensation.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                                    117   b.      corporate ­governance
144
                                                                       118   b.1     corporate governance report                          129   b.4        compensation report
                                                                       124   b.2      orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                                     c                                                                      (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                                     section 289a of the ­german commercial code          148   b.5    takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                                     (part of the combined management report)                            ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                       126   b.3     compliance report                                                    ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                                                           (part of the combined management report)

specifically, the following changes to the remuneration sys-                                        beginning with fiscal 2014, it cannot exceed 1.7 times the
tem for the managing board were adopted by the supervisory                                          target compensation. the target compensation comprises
board as of fiscal 2014:                                                                            base compensation, the target amount for the variable com-
                                                                                                    pensation (bonus), and the target amount for long-term
>> for stock commitments (bonus awards and stock awards),                                           stock-based compensation, excluding fringe benefits and
   the maximum amount of compensation at the time of trans-                                         pension benefit commitments. including fringe benefits and
   fer of siemens stock after the end of the waiting or restric-                                    pension benefit commitments of the respective fiscal year,
   tion period is now limited to not more than 300% of the re-                                      the maximum amount of compensation for the compensa-
   spective target amounts. if this maximum amount of com-                                          tion overall increases by corresponding amounts.
   pensation is exceeded, the entitlement to any number of                                       >> the bonus is paid 75% in cash and 25% in the form of
   shares associated with the excess will forfeit without re-                                       siemens stock commitments (bonus awards). the waiting
   placement. for the variable compensation (bonus) paid in                                         period remains four years. consistent with legal require-
   cash, the maximum amount of compensation remains un-                                             ments and with common practice in the market, the payout
   changed at 200% of the respective target amounts plus the                                        of more than 60% of the performance-based components is
   discretionary possibility of upward revision by 20% by the                                       extended over several years. 
   supervisory board.
>> in addition to the forfeiture rules to maintain the maximum                                   furthermore, to take greater account of managing board mem-
   amounts of compensation for variable compensation (bo-                                        bers’ individual performance, individual targets will be agreed
   nus) and long-term stock-based compensation, a maximum                                        for fiscal 2014 at target setting for the variable compensation
   amount for the compensation overall must also be observed.                                    (bonus).

       maximum amounts of compensation using the example of the president and ceo for fiscal 2014 (in €)




                                                                                                     2,850,000



                                                                                                                       maximum amounts
                                                                                                                       of compensation for
                                                                                                                       stock-based components
                                                                                                                       max. 300% of the
                                                                                                     2,850,000         respective target amounts




                                                                                                                                                                       maximum amount
                                                                                                     1,383,750                                                         of compensation for
                                                                                                                                                                       compensation overall
                          950,000          long-term stock-based compensation                                                                                          max. 1.7 times of target
                                           > target parameter: stock price compared                                                                                   compensation (base
stock-based                                   to 5 competitors                                                                                     9,503,0001          compensation, target
compensation              950,000          > target parameter: ø earnings per share                                    bonus (cash)                                    amount bonus and
                                                                                                                       max. 200% target                                target amount
                          461,250                                                                    3,321,000         attainment add.                                 long-term stock-based
                                           variable compensation (bonus)                                               + 20% adjustment                                compensation)
                                           target amount: 1,845,000�
                         1,383,750         75% granted in cash and 25% in bonus awards
cash
compensation
                         1,845,000         base compensation                                         1,845,000         base compensation



                        target                                                                      compensation after expiration of waiting
                        compensation                                                                or restriction period at transfer of siemens stock.
                        for fiscal 2014:                                                            systemic achievable maximum total:
                        5,590,000                                                                   12,249,750

              non-performance-based components                                                              performance-based components with deferred payout
              compensation overall (without fringe benefits and pension benefit commitments)              performance-based components
       1 including fringe benefits and pension benefit commitments, the maximum amount             including the values of fiscal 2013, a maximum amount of compensation for the ­compensation
          of compensation for the compensation overall increases by corresponding amounts.          overall of €10,608,043 would result.




155   c.   combined ­management report                         253    d.    consolidated f
                                                                                         ­ inancial statements                  357   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                  145

      b.4.2 remuneration of members of the supervisory board


                                                                                                                        fy 2013                                                              fy 2012
                                                                                        additional com-                                                      additional com-
                                                                          base            pensation for                                         base           pensation for
       (amounts in €)                                              compensation        committee work 1                    total         compensation       committee work 1                    total

       supervisory board members
       serving as of september 30, 2013
       dr. gerhard cromme                                               280,000                280,000               560,000                  280,000               280,000                560,000
       berthold huber 2                                                 211,852                  77,037              288,889                  220,000                 80,000               300,000
       dr. josef ackermann                                              211,852                134,815               346,667                  207,778                 75,556               283,333
       lothar adler 2                                                   140,000                160,000               300,000                  140,000               160,000                300,000
       gerd von brandenstein                                            140,000                  40,000              180,000                  140,000                 40,000               180,000
       michael diekmann                                                 140,000                         –            140,000                  140,000                        –             140,000
       dr. hans michael gaul                                            140,000                160,000               300,000                  140,000               160,000                300,000
       prof. dr. peter gruss                                            140,000                         –            140,000                  140,000                        –             140,000
       bettina haller 2                                                 129,630                  74,074              203,704                  140,000                 80,000               220,000
       hans-jürgen hartung 2                                            129,630                         –            129,630                  140,000                        –             140,000
       robert kensbock 2, 3                                             105,000                         –            105,000                           –                     –                      –
       harald kern 2                                                    140,000                  30,000              170,000                  140,000                        –             140,000
       jürgen kerner 2                                                  140,000                120,000               260,000                  105,000                 90,000               195,000
       dr. nicola leibinger-kammüller                                   134,815                         –            134,815                  132,222                        –             132,222
       gérard mestrallet 3                                                98,000                 28,000              126,000                           –                     –                      –
       güler sabancı 3                                                    98,000                        –              98,000                          –                     –                      –
       prof. dr. rainer sieg                                            140,000                         –            140,000                  140,000                        –             140,000
       birgit steinborn 2                                               140,000                120,000               260,000                  140,000               120,000                260,000
       sibylle wankel 2                                                 140,000                  40,000              180,000                  140,000                 40,000               180,000
       werner wenning 3                                                   98,000                 28,000              126,000                           –                     –                      –

       former supervisory board members
       jean-louis beffa 4                                                 42,778                 12,222                55,000                 132,222                 37,778               170,000
       werner mönius 2, 4                                                 46,667                 13,333                60,000                 140,000                 40,000               180,000
       håkan samuelsson 4                                                 38,889                 11,111                50,000                 140,000                 40,000               180,000
       dieter scheitor 2, 4                                                       –                     –                      –               46,667                 40,000                86,667
       lord iain vallance of tummel 4                                     42,778                 24,444                67,222                 140,000                 80,000               220,000
       total                                                           3,067,889             1,353,037             4,420,9265             3,083,889              1,363,333              4,447,2225


            1 dr. gerhard cromme as chairman of the supervisory             as member of the compliance committee; and werner                 received meeting fees of €39,000 (2012: €34,500),
               board and of the chairman’s committee, the compliance         wenning as member of the finance and investment                   dr. josef ackermann received meeting fees of €34,500
               committee, and the finance and investment committee,          committee, each received an additional fixed compen­              (2012: €22,500), birgit steinborn received meeting fees
               as well as a member of the audit committee; berthold          sation for their committee work.                                  of €28,500 (2012: €22,500), berthold huber received
               huber as deputy chairman of the supervisory board and                                                                           meeting fees of €27,000 (2012: €18,000), jürgen kerner
                                                                        2 both the employee representatives on the supervisory
               member of the chairman’s committee; dr. josef acker-                                                                            received meeting fees of €27,000 (2012: €12,000),
                                                                           board who represent the employees pursuant to section
               mann as deputy chairman of the supervisory board and                                                                           ­bettina haller received meeting fees of €25,500 (2012:
                                                                           3 para. 1 no. 1 of the german codetermination act (mit-
               member of the chairman’s committee, the compliance                                                                              €25,500), sibylle wankel received meeting fees of
                                                                           bestimmungsgesetz) and the representatives of the trade
               committee and the audit committee; lothar adler as                                                                              €22,500 (2012: €16,500), gerd von brandenstein re-
                                                                           unions on the supervisory board declared their readiness
               member of the chairman’s committee, the compliance                                                                              ceived meeting fees of €18,000 (2012: €13,500), harald
                                                                           to transfer their compensation to the hans boeckler
               committee and the finance and investment committee;                                                                             kern received meeting fees of €16,500 (2012: €9,000),
                                                                           foundation, in accordance with the guidelines of the
               jean-louis beffa as member of the finance and invest-                                                                           prof. dr. peter gruss received meeting fees of €15,000
                                                                           confederation of german trade unions (dgb).
               ment committee; gerd von brandenstein as member                                                                                 (2012: €9,000), dr. nicola leibinger-kammüller received
               of the finance and investment committee; dr. hans        3 robert kensbock, gérard mestrallet, güler sabancı and               meeting fees of €15,000 (2012: €7,500), prof. dr. rainer
               michael gaul as chairman of the audit committee and         werner wenning were newly elected as members of                     sieg received meeting fees of €15,000 (2012: €9,000),
               member of the compliance committee; bettina haller          the supervisory board as of the end of the annual share-            lord iain vallance of tummel received meeting fees of
               as member of the audit committee and the compliance         holders’ meeting on january 23, 2013.                               €15,000 (2012: €25,500), michael diekmann received
               committee; harald kern as member of the finance and      4 jean-louis beffa, werner mönius, håkan samuelsson                   meeting fees of €13,500 (2012: €9,000), hans-jürgen
               investment committee; jürgen kerner as member of            and lord iain vallance of tummel resigned from the                  hartung received meeting fees of €10,500 (2012: €9,000),
               the audit committee and the finance and investment          supervisory board as of the end of the annual share­                werner mönius received meeting fees of €9,000 (2012:
               committee; gérard mestrallet as member of the finance       holders’ meeting on january 23, 2013. dieter scheitor               €13,500), jean-louis beffa received meeting fees of
               and investment committee; werner mönius as member           resigned from the supervisory board as of the end of                €7,500 (2012: €9,000), robert kensbock received meet-
               of the finance and investment committee; håkan              the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 24, 2012.               ing fees of €7,500 (2012: €0), gérard mestrallet received
               ­samuelsson as member of the finance and investment                                                                             meeting fees of €7,500 (2012: €0), werner wenning
                committee; dieter scheitor as member of the audit       5 in addition, the members of the supervisory board are               received meeting fees of €7,500 (2012: €0), güler sabancı
                committee and the finance and investment committee;        entitled to receive a meeting attendance fee of €1,500              received meeting fees of €6,000 (2012: €0) and
                birgit steinborn as member of the audit committee          (2012: €1,500) for each meeting of the supervisory                  håkan samuelsson received meeting fees of €6,000
                and the finance and investment committee; lord iain        board and its committees that they attend. in fiscal 2013,          (2012: €13,500).
               vallance of tummel as member of the compliance              dr. gerhard cromme received meeting fees of €57,000
                ­committee and the audit committee; sibylle wankel         (2012: €48,000), lothar adler received meeting fees
                                                                           of €40,500 (2012: €30,000), dr. hans michael gaul


      92   a.    to our shareholders                              117   b.      corporate ­governance
146
                                                                  118   b.1     corporate governance report                             129   b.4       compensation report
                                                                  124   b.2      orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                                c                                                                        (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                                section 289a of the ­german commercial code             148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                                (part of the combined management report)                            ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                                  126   b.3     compliance report                                                    ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                                                      (part of the combined management report)

the compensation shown on the previous page was deter-                        bers of the committee will receive €60,000. if applicable, com-
mined for each of the members of the supervisory board for                    pensation received for work on the chairman‘s committee will
fiscal 2013 (individualized disclosure).                                      be taken into account in determining compensation for work
                                                                              on the compensation committee.
the current remuneration policies for the supervisory board
were authorized at the annual shareholders‘ meeting held on                   if a supervisory board member does not attend a meeting of
january 25, 2011. details are set out in section 17 of the articles           the supervisory board, one third of the aggregate compen­
of association of siemens ag. the remuneration of the super-                  sation due to that member is reduced by the percentage of
visory board consists entirely of fixed compensation. the re-                 ­supervisory board meetings not attended by the member in
muneration of the members of the supervisory board reflects                    relation to the total number of supervisory board meetings
the responsibilities and scope of work of the supervisory board                held during the fiscal year. in the event of changes in the com-
members. the chairman and deputy chairmen of the super­                        position of the supervisory board and/or its committees, com-
visory board, as well as the chairmen and members of the                       pensation is paid pro rata temporis, rounding up to the next
­audit committee and the chairman‘s committee, and – to a                      full month.
 lesser degree – the compliance committee and the finance
 and investment committee, receive additional compensation.                   in addition, the members of the supervisory board are entitled
                                                                              to receive a meeting attendance fee of €1,500 for each meeting
according to current rules, members of the supervisory board                  of the supervisory board and its committees that they attend.
receive an annual base compensation of €140,000; the
­chairman of the supervisory board receives a base compen­                    the members of the supervisory board are reimbursed for out-
 sation of €280,000, and each of the deputy chairmen receives                 of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with their duties
 €220,000.                                                                    and for any value-added taxes to be paid on their remunera-
                                                                              tion. for the performance of his duties, the chairman of the
the members of the supervisory board committees receive the                   supervisory board is furthermore entitled to an office with sec-
following additional fixed compensation for their work on                     retarial support and use of the siemens carpool service.
those committees: the chairman of the audit committee re-
ceives €160,000, and each of the other members receives                       no loans or advances from the company are provided to mem-
€80,000; the chairman of the chairman’s committee receives                    bers of the supervisory board.
€120,000, and each of the other members receives €80,000;
the chairman of the finance and investment committee
­receives €80,000, and each of the other members receives                     b.4.3 other
 €40,000; the chairman of the compliance committee receives
 €80,000, and each of the other members receives €40,000.                     the company provides a group insurance policy for board and
 however, no additional compensation is paid for work on the                  committee members and certain employees of the siemens
 compliance committee if a member of that committee is al-                    ­organization that is taken out for one year and renewed annu-
 ready entitled to compensation for work on the audit commit-                  ally. the insurance covers the personal liability of the insured
 tee. plans call for a proposal to be made at the annual share-                in the case of a financial loss associated with employment
 holders’ meeting in january 2014 that as of october 1, 2013, the              functions. the insurance policy for fiscal 2013 includes a de-
 chairman and members of the newly established compen­                         ductible for the members of the managing board and the
 sation committee will also receive additional compensation.                   ­
                                                                               supervisory board in compliance with the requirements of
 based on this proposal, the chairman of the compensation                      the german stock corporation act and the german corporate
 committee will receive €100,000, and each of the other mem-                   governance code.




155   c.   combined ­management report        253   d.   consolidated f
                                                                      ­ inancial statements         357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                  147

      b.5  takeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to ­sections 289
            para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the ­german commercial code) and
           explanatory report
      the takeover-relevant information pursuant to sections 289                 the von siemens-vermögensverwaltung gmbh (vsv) has, on a
      para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the german commercial code (handels­            sustained basis, powers of attorney allowing it to exercise the
      gesetzbuch) and explanatory report are part of the combined                voting rights for 9,313,438 shares on behalf of members of the
      management report.                                                         siemens family as of october 13, 2013, whereby aforemen-
                                                                                 tioned shares constitute a part of the overall number of shares
                                                                                 held by members of the siemens family. the vsv is a german
      b.5.1 composition of common stock                                          limited liability company and party to an agreement with,
                                                                                 among others, members of the siemens family (family agree-
      as of september 30, 2013, the company ’s common stock ­totaled             ment). in order to bundle and represent their interests, the
      €2.643 billion (2012: €2.643 billion) divided into 881,000,000             members of the siemens family established a family partner-
      (2012: 881,000,000) registered shares with no par value and a              ship. this family partnership makes proposals to the vsv with
      notional value of €3.00 per share. the shares are fully paid in.           respect to the exercise of the voting rights at shareholders’
      in accordance with section 4 para. 3 of the company ’s articles            meetings of the company, which are taken into account by the
      of association, the right of shareholders to have their owner-             vsv when acting within the bounds of its professional dis­
      ship interests evidenced by document is excluded, unless such              cretion. pursuant to the family agreement, the shares under
      evidence is required under the regulations of a stock exchange             powers of attorney are voted by the vsv collectively.
      on which the shares are listed. collective share certificates
      may be issued. pursuant to section 67 para. 2 of the german
      stock corporation act (aktiengesetz), only those persons re-               b.5.3 equity interests exceeding 10%
      corded in the company ’s stock register will be recognized as              of voting rights
      shareholders of the company.
                                                                                 we are not aware of, nor have we during the fiscal year 2013
      all shares confer the same rights and obligations. at the annual           been notified of, any shareholder directly or indirectly holding
      shareholders’ meeting, each share of stock has one vote and                10% or more of the voting rights.
      accounts for the shareholders’ proportionate share in the com-
      pany ’s net income. excepted from this rule are treasury shares
      held by the company, which do not entitle the company to any               b.5.4 shares with special rights
      rights. the shareholders’ rights and obligations are governed              ­conferring powers of control
      by the provisions of the german stock corporation act, in par-
      ticular by sections 12, 53a et seq., 118 et seq. and 186 of this           there are no shares with special rights conferring powers
      german stock corporation act.                                              of control.


      b.5.2 restrictions on voting rights                                        b.5.5 system of control of any employee
      or transfer of shares                                                      share scheme where the control rights are
      shares issued to employees worldwide under the employee
                                                                                 not exercised directly by the employees
      share program implemented since the beginning of fiscal 2009,
      in particular the share matching plan, are freely transferable.            shares of stock issued by siemens ag to employees under its
      however, participants are required to own and hold the shares              employee share program and / or as stock-based compensation
      issued to them under the rules of the program for a vesting                are transferred directly to the employees. the beneficiary
      period of about three years, during which the participants                 ­employees who hold shares of employee stock may exercise
      have to have been continuously employed by siemens ag or                    their control rights in the same way as any other shareholder
      another siemens company, in order to receive one matching                   directly in accordance with applicable laws and the articles of
      share free of charge for each three shares. the right to receive            association.
      matching shares is forfeited, if the underlying shares are sold,
      transferred, hedged on, pledged or hypothecated in any way
      during the vesting period.




      92   a.   to our shareholders               117   b.    corporate ­governance
148
                                                  118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                  124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                              c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                              section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                              (part of the combined management report)                  ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                  126   b.3   compliance report                                          ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                          (part of the combined management report)

b.5.6 legislation and provisions of the                                       2009). the managing board is authorized to exclude, with the
articles of association applicable to the                                     approval of the supervisory board, preemptive rights of share-
                                                                              holders in the event of capital increases against contributions
appointment and removal of members                                            in kind. in addition, preemptive rights of shareholders may be
of the managing board and governing                                           excluded in the event of capital increases against cash contri-
amendment to the articles of association                                      butions, (1) to make use of any fractional amounts, (2) in order
                                                                              to grant holders of conversion or option rights issued by the
the appointment and removal of members of the managing                        company or any of its subsidiaries, as protection against the
board is subject to the provisions of sections 84 and 85 of the               effects of dilution, preemptive rights to subscribe for new
german stock corporation act and section 31 of the german                     shares, and (3) if the issue price of the new shares is not sig-
codetermination act (mitbestimmungsgesetz). according to                      nificantly lower than their stock market price and the total of
section 8 para. 1 of the articles of association, the managing                the shares issued in accordance with section 186 para. 3 sen-
board is comprised of several members, the number of which                    tence 4 of the german stock corporation act (against cash
is determined by the supervisory board. pursuant to section                   contributions not significantly below the stock market price,
84 of the german stock corporation act and section 9 of the                   with shareholders’ subscription rights excluded) together with
articles of association, the supervisory board may appoint a                  other shares issued or disposed of by direct or mutatis mutan-
president of the managing board as well as a vice president.                  dis application of this statutory regulation during the effective
                                                                              period of this authorization until the date of using this autho-
according to section 179 of the german stock corporation act,                 rization does not exceed 10% of the capital stock at that point
any amendment to the articles of association requires a reso-                 in time.
lution of the annual shareholders’ meeting. the authority to
adopt purely formal amendments to the articles of association                 furthermore, the managing board is authorized to increase,
was transferred to the supervisory board under section 13                     with the approval of the supervisory board, the capital stock
­para. 2 of the articles of association. in addition, by resolution           until january 24, 2016 by up to €90 million through the issu-
 of the annual shareholders’ meetings on january 27, 2009 and                 ance of up to 30 million registered shares of no par value against
 january 25, 2011, the supervisory board has been authorized                  contributions in cash (authorized capital 2011). preemptive
 to amend section 4 of the articles of association in accordance              rights of existing shareholders are excluded. the new shares
 with the utilization of the authorized capital 2009 and the                  shall be issued under the condition that they are offered exclu-
 ­authorized capital 2011, and after expiration of the then-appli-            sively to employees of siemens ag and its subsidiaries. the
  cable authorization period.                                                 new shares may also be issued to a suitable bank that assumes
                                                                              the obligation to use these shares for the sole purpose of
resolutions of the annual shareholders’ meeting require a sim-                granting them to employees of siemens ag and any of its con-
ple majority vote, unless a greater majority is required by law.              solidated subsidiaries. to the extent permitted by law, employ-
pursuant to section 179 para. 2 of the german stock corpora-                  ee shares may also be issued in such a manner that the contri-
tion act, amendments to the articles of association require a                 bution to be paid on such shares is covered by that part of the
majority of at least three-quarters of the capital stock repre-               annual net income which the managing board and the super-
sented at the time of the casting of the votes, unless another                visory board may allocate to other retained earnings under
capital majority is prescribed by the articles of association.                section 58 para. 2 of the german stock corporation act.

                                                                              as of september 30, 2013, the total unissued authorized capital
b.5.7 powers of the managing board                                            of siemens ag therefore consisted of €610.8 million nominal
to issue and repurchase shares                                                that may be issued in installments with varying terms by issu-
                                                                              ance of up to 203.6 million registered shares of no par value. for
the managing board is authorized to increase, with the ap-                    details, please refer to section 4 of the articles of association.
proval of the supervisory board, the capital stock until january
26, 2014 by up to €520.8 million through the issuance of up to                by resolution of the annual shareholders’ meeting of january 26,
173.6 million registered shares of no par value against cash                  2010, the managing board is authorized until january 25, 2015
contributions and / or contributions in kind (authorized capital              to issue bonds in an aggregate principal amount of up to




155   c.   combined ­management report        253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements         357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                   149

      €15 billion with conversion rights or with warrants attached,                bonds or warrant bonds issued until january 24, 2016 by the
      or a combination of these instruments, entitling the holders to              company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance
      subscribe to up to 200 million new registered shares of siemens              with the authorization of the managing board adopted by the
      ag of no par value, representing a pro rata amount of up to €600             annual shareholders’ meeting on january 25, 2011, the capital
      million of the capital stock. the bonds under this authoriza-                stock was conditionally increased by €270 million through the
      tion are to be issued against cash or non-cash contributions.                issuance of up to 90 million no-par value shares registered in
                                                                                   the names of the holders (conditional capital 2011).
      additionally, by resolution of the annual shareholders’ meet-
      ing of january 25, 2011, the managing board is authorized until              the total of the shares to be issued on the basis of bond issues
      january 24, 2016 to issue bearer or registered bonds in an ag-               under these authorizations pursuant to section 186 para. 3 sen-
      gregate principal amount of up to €15 billion with conversion                tence 4 of the german stock corporation act, in combination
      rights or with bearer or registered warrants attached or a com-              with other shares issued or sold by direct or mutatis mutandis
      bination of these instruments, entitling the holders to sub-                 application of this statutory regulation during the effective
      scribe to up to 90 million new registered shares of siemens ag               ­period of these authorizations, does not exceed 10% of the capi-
      of no par value, representing a pro rata amount of up to €270                 tal stock at the date of using these authorizations. this l­imit also
      million of the capital stock. the bonds under this authoriza-                 includes shares of stock issued up to this point in time against
      tion are to be issued against cash contributions.                             non-cash contributions, under exclusion of shareholders’ sub-
                                                                                    scription rights, on the basis of the authorized capital 2009. in
      for further details of the authorizations please refer to the re-             addition, the issue of convertible bonds and / or warrant bonds
      spective resolutions of the annual shareholders’ meetings. in                 pursuant to both authorizations shall be limited to convertible
      particular, the bonds are, as a matter of principle, to be offered            bonds and / or warrant bonds that entitle or oblige to subscribe
      to shareholders for subscription, including the possibility of                to a maximum number of 200 million siemens shares represent-
      ­issuing them to banks with the obligation that they must be                  ing a pro rata amount of €600 million of the capital stock while
       offered to shareholders for subscription. however, the manag-                both authorizations are simultaneously effective.
       ing board is authorized to exclude shareholders’ subscription
       rights with the approval of the supervisory board (1) provided              in february 2012 siemens issued bonds with warrant units
       that the issue price of the bonds is not significantly lower than           with a volume of us$3 billion. the bonds with warrant units
       their theoretical market price computed in accordance with                  with a minimum per-unit denomination of us$250,000 were
       generally accepted actuarial methods, (2) to the extent the ex-             offered exclusively to institutional investors outside the u.s.
       clusion is necessary with regard to fractional amounts result-              pre-emptive rights of siemens shareholders were excluded.
       ing from the subscription ratio, (3) in order to grant holders of           the bonds issued by siemens financieringsmaatschappij n.v.
       conversion or option rights or conversion or option obligations             are guaranteed by siemens ag and complemented with war-
       on siemens shares subscription rights as compensation for the               rants issued by siemens ag. the warrants entitle their holders
       effects of dilution, and (4) to the extent that bonds were is-              to receive siemens shares against payment of the exercise
       sued against non-cash contributions, in particular within the               price in euros. at issuance, the warrants resulted in option
       context of business combinations or when acquiring compa-                   rights relating to a total of about 21.7 million siemens shares.
       nies or interests therein.                                                  the terms and conditions of the warrants enable siemens to
                                                                                   service exercised option rights also by delivering treasury
      in order to grant shares of stock to holders of convertible                  stock as well as to buy back the warrants. the bonds with war-
      bonds or warrant bonds issued until january 25, 2015 by the                  rant units were issued in two tranches with maturities of 5.5
      company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance                and 7.5 years, respectively. the maturities refer to both the
      with the authorization of the managing board adopted by the                  bonds and the related warrants. after issuance, the warrants
      annual shareholders’ meeting on january 26, 2010, the capital                can be detached from the bonds, the option period com-
      stock was conditionally increased by €600 million through the                menced on march 28, 2012. the bonds with warrant units, the
      issuance of up to 200 million no-par value shares registered in              bonds detached from warrants and the warrants detached are
      the names of the holders (conditional capital 2010). in order to             listed by deutsche bank ag in the open market segment of the
      grant shares of stock to holders or creditors of convertible                 frankfurt stock exchange (freiverkehr).




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.    corporate ­governance
150
                                                    118   b.1   corporate governance report                   129   b.4       compensation report
                                                    124   b.2    orporate governance statement pursuant to
                                                                c                                                              (part of the combined ­management report)
                                                                section 289a of the ­german commercial code   148   b.5   t  akeover-relevant ­information (pursuant to
                                                                (part of the combined management report)                  ­sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the
                                                    126   b.3   compliance report                                          ­german commercial code) and explanatory report
                                                                                                                            (part of the combined management report)

the company may not repurchase its own shares unless so                       or interests therein; (4) sold, with the approval of the supervi-
­authorized by a resolution duly adopted by the shareholders at               sory board, to third parties against payment in cash if the price
 a general meeting or in other very limited circumstances set                 at which such siemens shares are sold is not significantly low-
 forth in the german stock corporation act. on january 25,                    er than the market price of siemens stock at the time of sell-
 2011, the annual shareholders’ meeting authorized the com-                   ing, or (5) used to meet obligations or rights to acquire
 pany to acquire until january 24, 2016 up to 10% of its capital              siemens shares arising from, or in connection with, convert-
 stock existing at the date of adopting the resolution or – if this           ible bonds or warrant bonds issued by the company or any of
 value is lower – as of the date on which the authorization is                its subsidiaries. the aggregate volume of shares used under
 exercised. the aggregate of shares of stock of siemens ag                    the authorization pursuant to (4) and (5) by mutatis mutandis
 ­repurchased under this authorization and any other siemens                  application of the provisions of section 186 para. 3 sentence 4
  shares previously acquired and still held in treasury by the                of the german stock corporation act together with other
  company or attributable to the company pursuant to sections                 shares issued or sold by direct or mutatis mutandis application
  71d and 71e of the german stock corporation act, may at no                  of this statutory regulation during the effective period of this
  time exceed 10% of the then existing capital stock. any repur-              authorization until the date of using this authorization must
  chase of siemens shares shall be accomplished at the discre-                not exceed 10% of the capital stock at that point in time.
  tion of the managing board either (1) by acquisition over the
  stock exchange or (2) through a public share repurchase offer.              furthermore, the supervisory board is authorized by resolu-
                                                                              tion of the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 25, 2011
the managing board is additionally authorized, with the ap-                   to use shares acquired on the basis of this or any previously
proval of the supervisory board, to complete the repurchase of                given authorization to meet obligations or rights to acquire
siemens shares in accordance with the authorization described                 siemens shares that were or will be agreed with members of
above, by using certain equity derivatives (such as put and call              the managing board within the framework of rules governing
options, forward purchases and any combination of these de-                   managing board compensation. in particular, repurchased
rivatives). in exercising this authorization, all stock repurchases           shares may be offered for acquisition, or awarded and / or
based on the equity derivatives are limited to a maximum vol-                 transferred, subject to a restriction period, by the supervisory
ume of 5% of siemens‘ capital stock existing at the date of                   board to the members of the managing board, provided that
adopting the resolution at the annual shareholders’ meeting.                  managing board membership existed at the time of the offer
an equity derivative’s term of maturity must, in each case, not               or award commitment.
exceed 18 months and must be chosen in such a way that the
repurchase of siemens shares upon exercise of the equity                      as of september 30, 2013, the company held 37,997,595 (2012:
derivative will take place no later than january 24, 2016.                    24,725,674) shares of stock in treasury.

 besides selling them over the stock exchange or through a                    for further information on the authorized and conditional cap-
 public sales offer to all shareholders, the managing board is                itals and on the treasury stock of the company as of septem-
 authorized by resolution of the annual shareholders’ meeting                 ber 30, 2013 see     note 26 equit y in  d.6 notes to consoli-

 on january 25, 2011 to also use siemens shares repurchased on                dated financial statements on pages 301-303.

 the basis of this or any previously given authorization as fol-
 lows: such siemens shares may be (1) retired; (2) offered for
 purchase to individuals currently or formerly employed by the                b.5.8 significant agreements which take
company or any of its subsidiaries as well as to board members                effect, alter or terminate upon a change
of any of the company ’s subsidiaries, or awarded and / or trans-
 ferred to such individuals with a vesting period of at least two
                                                                              of control of the company following a
 years, provided that the employment relationship or board                    takeover bid
membership exists at the time of the offer or award commit-
ment; (3) offered and transferred, with the approval of the                   siemens ag maintains two lines of credit in an amount of €4
­supervisory board, to third parties against non-cash contribu-               billion and an amount of us$3 billion respectively which pro-
 tions, particularly in connection with business combinations or              vide its lenders with a right of termination in the event that (1)
 the acquisition of companies, businesses, parts of businesses                siemens ag becomes a subsidiary of another company or (2) a




155   c.   combined ­management report        253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements         357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                   151

      person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires effec-         of the issuer regarding the change of control, as determined
      tive control over siemens ag by being able to exercise decisive        by the issuer or (2) 30 days after the change of control first be-
      influence over its activities (art. 3 (2) of council regulation (ec)   comes publicly known. the strike price adjustment decreases
      139 / 2004). in addition, siemens ag has a bilateral credit line at    depending on the remaining term of the warrants and is deter-
      its disposal in the amount of €450 million which may be termi-         mined in detail in the terms and conditions of the warrants. in
      nated by the lender if major changes in siemens ag’s corpo-            this context, a change of control occurs if a person or persons
      rate legal situation occur that jeopardize the orderly repayment       acting in concert, respectively, acquires or acquire control of
      of the credit.                                                         the company.

      in march 2013, a consolidated subsidiary as borrower and
      siemens ag as guarantor entered into two bilateral loan agree-         b.5.9 compensation agreements with
      ments, each of which has been drawn in the full amount of              members of the managing board or
      us$500 million. both agreements provide their respective
      lender with a right of termination in the event that (1)               employees in the event of a takeover bid
      siemens ag becomes a subsidiary of another company or (2) a            in the event of a change of control that results in a substantial
      person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires effec-         change in the position of a managing board member (e.g., due
      tive control over siemens ag by being able to exercise decisive        to a change in corporate strategy or a change in the managing
      influence over its activities (art. 3 (2) of council regulation (ec)   board member’s duties and responsibilities), the member of
      139 / 2004).                                                           the managing board has the right to terminate his or her con-
                                                                             tract with the company for good cause. a change of control
      framework agreements concluded by siemens ag under inter-              exists if one or several shareholders acting jointly or in concert
      national swaps and derivatives association inc. documen­               acquire a majority of the voting rights in siemens ag and exer-
      tation (isda agreements) grant the counterparty a right of             cise a controlling influence, or if siemens ag becomes a depen-
      ­termination upon the occurrence of the following events: (1)          dent enterprise as a result of entering into an intercompany
       the company consolidates with, merges into, or transfers at           agreement within the meaning of section 291 of the german
       least substantially all its assets to a third party and (i) the re-   stock corporation act, or if siemens ag is to be merged into an
       sulting entity ’s creditworthiness is materially weaker than the      existing corporation or other entity. if this right of termination
       company ’s immediately prior to such event, or (ii) the result-       is exercised, the managing board member is entitled to a sev-
        ing entity fails to simultaneously assume the company ’s obli-       erance payment in the amount of not more than two years’
       gations under the isda agreement; or (2) additionally some            compensation. the calculation of the annual compensation in-
       isda agreements grant the counterparty a right of termination         cludes not only the base compensation and the target amount
       upon a third party acquiring the beneficial ownership of equity       for the bonus, but also the target amount for the stock awards,
       securities having the power to elect a majority of the compa-         in each case based on the most recent completed fiscal year
       ny ’s supervisory board or otherwise acquiring the power to           prior to termination of the contract. the stock-based compen-
      control the company ’s material policy-making decisions and            sation components for which a firm commitment already exists
       the creditworthiness of the company is materially weaker than         will remain unaffected. there is no entitlement to a severance
       it was immediately prior to such event. in either situation,          payment if the managing board member receives benefits
       ­isda agreements are designed such that upon termination all          from third parties in connection with a change of control.
        outstanding payment claims documented under them are to              moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change of con-
        be netted.                                                           trol occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a manag-
                                                                             ing board member’s retirement. additionally, the severance
      in february 2012 siemens issued bonds with warrant units               payments cover non-monetary benefits by including an amount
      with a volume of us$3 billion. in case of a change of control,         of 5% of the total severance amount. severance payments will
      the terms and conditions of these warrants enable their hold-          be reduced by 15% as a lump-sum allowance for discounted
      ers to receive a higher number of siemens shares in accor-             values and for income earned elsewhere. however, this reduc-
      dance with an adjusted strike price if they exercise their option      tion will apply only to the portion of the severance payment
      rights within a certain period of time after the change of con-        that was calculated without taking account of the first six
      trol. this period of time shall end either (1) not less than 30        months of the remaining term of the managing board mem-
      days and no more than 60 days after publication of the notice          ber’s contract.




152

                                                                                                                               c.
   combined
   management report
   156 c.1       business and                                          210 c.8           sustainability
                 economic environment                                  210 c.8.1         sustainability at siemens             combined
   156 c.1.1     the siemens group                                     211 c.8.2         research and development              management report
   166 c.1.2 economic environment                                      215 c.8.3         supply chain management
   170 c.1.3 strategy                                                  216 c.8.4         production
                                                                       216 c.8.5         quality management
   173 c.2       financial performance system                          217 c.8.6         distribution and customer relations
   173 c.2.1 overview                                                  218 c.8.7         environmental portfolio




                                                                                                                                                   c. combined management report
   173 c.2.2 revenue growth                                            220 c.8.8         environmental performance
   173 c.2.3 profitability and capital efficiency                      221 c.8.9         employees
   174 c.2.4 capital structure                                         224 c.8.10 compliance
   175 c.2.5 dividend and share buybacks                               226 c.8.11 corporate citizenship
   175 c.2.6 additional measures
   176 c.2.7 additional information for                                227 c.9           report on expected developments
             financial performance measures                                              and associated material
                         business and economic environment
                                                                                         opportunities and risks
   179 c.3       results of operations                                 227 c.9.1         report on expected developments
   179 c.3.1 results of siemens                                        232 c.9.2         risk management
   183 c.3.2 segment information analysis                              234 c.9.3         risks
                                                       system
                                 financial performance242 c.9.4                          opportunities
   190 c.3.3 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda
             (continuing operations)                                   244 c.9.5         significant characteristics of the
                                                                                         accounting-related internal control
                                                                                         and risk management system
   192 c.4       financial position
                results of operations | financial position | net assets position
   192 c.4.1 principles and objectives
             of financial management                  compensation report,
                                                                       245 c.10
                                                      corporate governance statement
   193 c.4.2 capital structure
                                                      pursuant to section 289a of the
   194 c.4.3 credit rating                            german commercial code,
   195 c.4.4 investing activities                     takeover-relevant information
             overall assessment of the economic position
                                                      and explanatory report
   196 c.4.5 cash flows
   198 c.4.6 capital resources and requirements
                                                                       246 c.11          siemens ag
   204 c.5       net assets position                                                     (discussion on basis of german
                                                                                         commercial code)
                                                                       246 c.11.1 business and economic environment
   207 c.6       overall assessment of the
                 economic position                                     246 c.11.2 results of operations
                                                                       247 c.11.3 net assets and financial position
                                subsequent events
                                                                       248 c.11.4 employees
   209 c.7       subsequent events
                                                                       249 c.11.5 subsequent events
                                                                       249 c.11.6 risks and opportunities
                                                                       249 c.11.7 outlook
sustainability
                                                                       250 c.12          notes and forward-looking
                                                                                         statements

                                            report on expected developments



                              risks and opportunities



                                                                                                                                            155
        due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this combined management report may not add up
        precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

                                             in our combined ofmanagement
      person or a group of persons acting in concert acquires effec-            the issuer regarding thereport,
                                                                                                             change of control, as determined
      tive control over siemens ag by being able to exercise decisive        by the issuer or (2) 30 days after the change of control first be-
                                             we analyze our business
      influence over its activities (art. 3 (2) of council regulation (ec)   comes publicly activities
                                                                                               known. the strike price adjustment decreases
                                             in the reporting mined
      139 / 2004). in addition, siemens ag has a bilateral credit line at
      its disposal in the amount of €450 million which may be termi-
                                                                              yearin detail
                                                                             depending   as well
                                                                                          on the         as term
                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                  remaining        of the warrants and is deter-
                                                                                              in the terms and conditions of the warrants. in
                                             current state of siemens
      nated by the lender if major changes in siemens ag’s corpo-                                worldwide
                                                                             this context, a change    of control occurs if a person or persons

                                             and siemens ag.thestarting
      rate legal situation occur that jeopardize the orderly repayment
      of the credit.
                                                                                                   from a
                                                                             acting in concert, respectively, acquires or acquire control of
                                                                                 company.
                                             description of our business, economic
      in march 2013, a consolidated subsidiary as borrower and
      siemens ag as guarantor entered into   environment                       strategy,
                                                                        andb.5.9
                                                  two bilateral loan agree-            compensationwe present   agreements with
                                             our financial target
      ments, each of which has been drawn in the full amount of
      us$500 million. both agreements provide their respective
                                                                             memberssystem    of the and      a
                                                                                                          managing         board or
      lender with a right of termination     detailed         explanation
                                                   in the event    that (1)  employeesof ourinprofit,the event       of a takeover bid
                                                                                                                 asset
      siemens ag becomes a subsidiary of another company or (2) a            in the event of a change of control that results in a substantial
      person or a group of persons acting    and      financial
                                                in concert               position.
                                                            acquires effec-  change in the we      also
                                                                                             position       reportboard member (e.g., due
                                                                                                       of a managing
                                             on various aspects
      tive control over siemens ag by being able to exercise decisive
      influence over its activities (art. 3 (2) of council regulation (ec)
                                                                                   of sustainability
                                                                             to a change in corporate strategy or a change in the managing
                                                                             board member’s duties and responsibilities), the member of
      139 / 2004).                           at siemens and on                    expected
                                                                             the managing    board has develop-
                                                                                                         the right to terminate his or her con-
                                                                             tract with the company for good cause. a change of control
      framework agreements concludedments     by siemens and
                                                           ag under   inter- material
                                                                    their                     opportunities
                                                                             exists if one or several  shareholders acting jointly or in concert
      national swaps and derivatives and              risks.
                                              association  inc.  documen-    acquire   a majority of the voting rights in siemens ag and exer-
      tation (isda agreements) grant the counterparty a right of            cise a controlling influence, or if siemens ag becomes a depen-
                                               the following events: (1)
      termination upon the occurrence of www.siemens.com/ar/combined-       dent  enterprise as a result of entering into an intercompany
                                                                               management-report
      the company consolidates with, merges into, or transfers at           agreement within the meaning of section 291 of the german
                                            a third party
      least substantially all its assets toadditional                 re-
                                                          and (i) theindicators
                                                       sustainability           arecorporation
                                                                            stock   available at:act, or if siemens ag is to be merged into an
      sulting entity ’s creditworthiness is materially  weaker than the     existing corporation or other entity. if this right of termination
                                              www.siemens.com/ar/sustainabilit y-figures
      company ’s immediately prior to such event, or (ii) the result-       is exercised, the managing board member is entitled to a sev-
      ing entity fails to simultaneously assume the company ’s obli-        erance payment in the amount of not more than two years’
      gations under the isda agreement; or (2) additionally some            compensation. the calculation of the annual compensation in-
      isda agreements grant the counterparty a right of termination         cludes not only the base compensation and the target amount
      upon a third party acquiring the beneficial ownership of equity       for the bonus, but also the target amount for the stock awards,
      securities having the power to elect a majority of the compa-         in each case based on the most recent completed fiscal year
      ny ’s supervisory board or otherwise acquiring the power to           prior to termination of the contract. the stock-based compen-
      control the company ’s material policy-making decisions and           sation components for which a firm commitment already exists
      the creditworthiness of the company is materially weaker than         will remain unaffected. there is no entitlement to a severance
      it was immediately prior to such event. in either situation,          payment if the managing board member receives benefits
      isda agreements are designed such that upon termination all           from third parties in connection with a change of control.
      outstanding payment claims documented under them are to               moreover, there is no right to terminate if the change of con-
      be netted.                                                            trol occurs within a period of twelve months prior to a manag-
                                                                            ing board member’s retirement. additionally, the severance
      in february 2012 siemens issued bonds with warrant units              payments cover non-monetary benefits by including an amount
      with a volume of us$3 billion. in case of a change of control,        of 5% of the total severance amount. severance payments will
      the terms and conditions of these warrants enable their hold-         be reduced by 15% as a lump-sum allowance for discounted
      ers to receive a higher number of siemens shares in accor-            values and for income earned elsewhere. however, this reduc-
      dance with an adjusted strike price if they exercise their option     tion will apply only to the portion of the severance payment
      rights within a certain period of time after the change of con-       that was calculated without taking account of the first six
      trol. this period of time shall end either (1) not less than 30       months of the remaining term of the managing board mem-
      days and no more than 60 days after publication of the notice         ber’s contract.




152

                                                                                                                            c.
combined
­management report
156 c.1       business and                                          210 c.8           sustainability
              ­economic ­environment                                210 c.8.1         sustainability at siemens             combined
156 c.1.1     the siemens group                                     211 c.8.2         research and development              ­management report
166 c.1.2 economic environment                                      215 c.8.3         supply chain management
170 c.1.3 strategy                                                  216 c.8.4         production
                                                                    216 c.8.5         quality management
173 c.2       financial performance system                          217 c.8.6         distribution and customer relations
173 c.2.1 overview                                                  218 c.8.7         environmental portfolio




                                                                                                                                                 c. combined management report
173 c.2.2 revenue growth                                            220 c.8.8         environmental performance
173 c.2.3 profitability and capital efficiency                      221 c.8.9         employees
174 c.2.4 capital structure                                         224 c.8.10 compliance
175 c.2.5 dividend and share buybacks                               226 c.8.11 corporate citizenship
175 c.2.6 additional measures
176 c.2.7 additional information for                                227 c.9           report on expected developments
          ­financial ­performance measures                                            and associated material
                                                                                      ­opportunities and risks
179 c.3       results of operations                                 227 c.9.1         report on expected developments
179 c.3.1 results of siemens                                        232 c.9.2         risk management
183 c.3.2 segment information analysis                              234 c.9.3         risks
190 c.3.3 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda                         242 c.9.4         opportunities
          (­continuing operations)                                  244 c.9.5         significant characteristics of the
                                                                                      accounting-related internal control
                                                                                      and risk management system
192 c.4       financial position
192 c.4.1 principles and objectives
          of ­financial management                                  245 c.10          compensation report,
                                                                                      ­corporate governance statement
193 c.4.2 capital structure
                                                                                       pursuant to section 289a of the
194 c.4.3 credit rating                                                                german commercial code,
195 c.4.4 investing activities                                                         takeover-­relevant information
196 c.4.5 cash flows                                                                   and explanatory report
198 c.4.6 capital resources and requirements
                                                                    246 c.11          siemens ag
204 c.5       net assets position                                                     (­discussion on basis of german
                                                                                      commercial code)
                                                                    246 c.11.1 business and economic environment
207 c.6       overall assessment of the
              ­economic position                                    246 c.11.2 results of operations
                                                                    247 c.11.3 net assets and financial position
                                                                    248 c.11.4 employees
209 c.7       subsequent events
                                                                    249 c.11.5 subsequent events
                                                                    249 c.11.6 risks and opportunities
                                                                    249 c.11.7 outlook


                                                                    250 c.12          notes and forward-looking
                                                                                      ­statements




                                                                                                                                          155
     due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this ­combined management report may not add up
     ­precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

      c.1  business and economic environment


      c.1.1 the siemens group                                                       ing results. they therefore have “right of way” over the regional
                                                                                    units in business matters. during fiscal 2013 our regional units
      c.1.1.1 organization and basis of presentation                                were organized in clusters and countries, which were respon-
      we are a globally operating technology company with core                      sible for the local customer relationship management and for
      ­activities in the fields of energy, healthcare, industry, and in-            implementing the business strategies of the sectors and sfs
       frastructure, and we occupy leading market positions world-                  as well as the requirements set by the corporate functions.
       wide in the majority of our businesses. we can look back on a
       successful history spanning 166 years, with groundbreaking                   in addition to their particular authority to issue binding com-
       and revolutionary innovations such as the invention of the                   pany-wide guidelines and to their monitoring and coordinat-
       dynamo, the first commercial light bulb, the first electric
       ­                                                                            ing responsibilities, the heads of selected corporate functions
       streetcar, the construction of the first public power plant, and             (finance and controlling, legal and compliance and human
       the first images of the inside of the human body. on a continu-              resources, for example) have an unrestricted right to issue
       ing basis, we have around 362,000 employees as of september                  ­instructions in relation to a function across all parts of the
       30, 2013 and business activities in nearly all countries of the               company to the extent legally permissible.
       world and reported consolidated revenue of €75.882 billion in
       fiscal 2013. we operate in excess of 290 major production and                below the managing board, siemens is structured organiza-
       manufacturing plants worldwide. in addition, we have office                  tionally into sectors, sfs which acts as business partner for
       buildings, warehouses, research and development facilities or                the sectors and also conducts its own business with external
       sales offices in almost every country in the world.                          customers, cross-sector services that support other siemens
                                                                                    units, corporate units with specific corporate functions, and
      siemens comprises siemens ag, a stock corporation under the                   regional clusters. the sectors are principally broken down into
      federal laws of germany, as the parent company and a total of                 divisions and these in turn into business units.
      about 900 legal entities, including minority investments. our
      company is incorporated in germany, with our corporate                        our business activities focus on our four sectors, energy,
      headquarters situated in munich. siemens operates under the                   healthcare, industry and infrastructure & cities. these sectors
      leadership of its managing board, which comprises the presi-                  form four of our reportable segments. in addition to our four
      dent and chief executive officer (ceo) and the chief financial                sectors, we have two additional reportable segments: equity
      ­officer (cfo) as well as the heads of selected corporate func-               investments and sfs.
       tions and the ceos of the sectors.
                                                                                     within this combined management report, we provide finan-
      our fundamental organizational principles are:                                 cial measures for our four sectors and for two businesses,
                                                                                     each combining two divisions within a sector as well as for
      >> the ceo principle,                                                          eight divisions of our sectors. these financial measures in-
      >> the end-to-end business responsibility of the sectors,                      clude: ­   orders, revenue, profit and profit margin. divisions
         ­divisions and business units, and                                          within a sector may do business with each other, leading to
      >> the unrestricted right of selected corporate functions to                   corresponding orders and revenue. such orders and revenues
          ­issue instructions in relation to a function to the extent                are only eliminated on a sector level. furthermore, our report-
           ­legally permissible.                                                    able segments may do business with each other, leading to
                                                                                     corresponding orders and revenue. such orders and revenue
       the siemens managing board is the sole management body                        are eliminated on the siemens level within eliminations, cor-
       and has overall business responsibility in accordance with the                porate treasury and other reconciling items and are not
      german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz, aktg). at all                      ­included in orders and revenue with external customers (ex-
      ­other organizational levels within our company, management                     ternal orders and external revenue, respectively) reported in
       responsibility is assigned to individuals who make decisions                   this document. free cash flow and further information is
       and assume personal responsibility (ceo principle). this prin-                 ­reported for each reportable segment in the notes to consoli-
       ciple establishes clear and direct responsibilities and fosters                  dated financial statements. for information related to the
       efficient decision-making.                                                       definition of these financial measures and to the reconci­
                                                                                       liation of segment financial measures to the consolidated
      our sectors, divisions, business units and financial services                    ­financial statements, see     c.12 notes and forward-looking

      (sfs) are “global entrepreneurs” and have end-to-end business                  statements and         note 36 in     d.6 notes to consolidated

      responsibility worldwide, including with regard to their operat-              ­f inancial statements .




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance               155   c.    combined ­management report
156
                                                     156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                     173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                     179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                     192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                     204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                      ­associated material o

       basis of presentation as of september 30, 2013


                                                                                reporting structure




           energy                      healthcare                      industry               infrastructure & cities                equity                        financial
           sector                        sector                         sector                        sector                      investments                      services

   fossil power                   diagnostics                   industry automation            transportation &
    generation                                                   drive technologies              logistics
    wind power                                                                                  power grid
    oil & gas                                                                                    solutions & products
    power transmission                                                                          building
                                                                                                 technologies



                                                           reconciliation to consolidated financial statements




                                                                                                                                                         eliminations,
           centrally managed                                                                              corporate items
                                                          siemens real estate                                                                       corporate treasury and
           portfolio activities                                                                            and pensions
                                                                                                                                                    other reconciling items




on a geographic basis, siemens was subdivided into 14 regional                               c.1.1.2 business description
clusters as of september 30, 2013, which were in turn assigned                               energy
to one of our three reporting regions. we report financial mea-                              the energy sector offers a wide spectrum of products, solu-
sures for these three regions:                                                               tions and services for generating and transmitting power, and
                                                                                             for extracting, converting and transporting oil and gas. it
       regional structure as of september 30, 2013                                           ­primarily addresses the needs of energy providers, but also
                                                                                              serves industrial companies, particularly in the oil and gas
                                  regional structure
                                                                                              ­industry.

                                                                                             external revenue of the energy sector was €26.386 billion in
         europe,                                                                             fiscal 2013, representing 35% of siemens revenue. the follow-
                                                                       asia,
      c.i.s.,1 africa,                 americas                                              ing chart provides a geographic breakdown of the energy
                                                                      australia
       middle east
                                                                                             ­sector’s external revenue in fiscal 2013.

       1   commonwealth of independent states.                                                       revenue share in % (location of customer)



as of november 2013, following the close of fiscal 2013, we dis-                                                                                                   asia, australia: 19%

banded our regional cluster organization. following this orga-
                                                                                                                                                                            americas: 27%
nizational change, we have designated 30 lead countries                                      europe, c.i.s.,1
                                                                                             africa, middle east: 54%                                                 therein u.s.: 14%
which are individually responsible for managing a number of
other countries regarding market penetration. each lead                                      therein germany: 8%

country reports directly to the managing board.

in addition, we report financial information at group level for
                                                                                                     1 commenwealth of independent states.
certain major countries within each region, including germa-
ny (within the region europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east), the
u.s. (within the region americas), and china (within the re-
gion asia, australia).




                                                                                                                            253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                            157
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance       246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                     ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant         250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      in fiscal 2013, the energy sector comprised five divisions: fossil           on the project mix between onshore and offshore projects in
      power generation; wind power; oil & gas; power transmission;                 any given period. a significant part of the division’s business
      and energy service. in addition, the sector includes two sec-                activities take place offshore and in countries in the northern
      tor-led businesses: solar and hydro. results for these business-             hemisphere. therefore, its production and sales figures are
      es are included in results for the sector. siemens has decided               typically higher during the hemisphere’s spring and summer
      to exit solar activities after completion of projects under execu-           months, when weather conditions facilitate the installation of
      tion. in the hydro business, we are active in small and large                wind turbines.
      hydro power stations, via our minority stake in voith h      ­ ydro
      holding gmbh & co. kg. furthermore, our hydro business also                  the oil & gas division has a comprehensive portfolio of
      comprises our activities in ocean power tidal turbines. as of                highly efficient rotating machinery (gas turbines, steam
      fiscal 2014, the fossil power generation division and the                    ­turbines, compressors with associated equipment) and elec-
      oil & gas division were combined into a single division under                trical, instrumentation and telecommunication (eit) solu-
      the name power generation.                                                   tions. this portfolio is the basis of our offerings to all our
                                                                                   markets, predominantly the oil and gas industry, process
      the fossil power generation division offers high-efficiency                   ­industry and industrial power generation industry for appli-
      products and solutions for fossil-based power generation.                      cations ranging from cogeneration to offshore production,
      these solutions include substantial innovation and engineer-                   water treatment and subsea processing. as mentioned
      ing know-how aimed at converting fossil fuels to power with                    above, as of fiscal 2014, the oil & gas division was combined
      high efficiency, which increases return on investment for cus-                 with the fossil power generation division to form the power
      tomers and helps them improve their environmental perfor-                      generation ­division.
      mance. the division concentrates on products and solutions
      for gas and steam turbines, turbo generators, heat recovery                  the power transmission division provides customers with
      steam generators including control systems, with an empha-                   turnkey power transmission solutions as well as discrete prod-
      sis on combined-cycle power plants. it also develops solutions               ucts, systems and related engineering and services. it covers
      for instrumentation and control systems for all types of power               high-voltage transmission solutions, power and distribution
      plants and for use in power generation. these solutions in-                  transformers, high-voltage switching and non-switching prod-
      clude information technology solutions providing manage-                     ucts and systems, and innovative alternating and direct cur-
      ment applications from the plant to the enterprise level. the                rent transmission systems. the division supplies energy utili-
      division is also working on developing and producing com-                    ties and large industrial power users with equipment, systems
      mercial systems based on emerging technologies such as                       and services used to process and transmit electrical power
      ­integrated gasification, coal liquefaction, and carbon capture              from the source, such as power plants and onshore and off-
       and storage. due to the broad range of the division’s offer-                shore wind farms, to various points along the power transmis-
       ings, the revenue mix may vary from reporting period to                     sion network. the division is working with joint ventures in
       ­reporting period depending on the share of revenue attribut-               china involving different partners and has a joint venture with
        able to products, solutions and services and the revenue’s re-             infineon technologies in germany for the design, manufac-
        gional distribution in the respective periods. as mentioned                ture and sale of high-performance semiconductors.
        above, as of fiscal 2014, the fossil power generation division
        was combined with the oil & gas division to form the new                   the energy service division offers comprehensive services
        power generation division.                                                 for products, solutions and technologies, covering perfor-
                                                                                   mance enhancements, maintenance services, customer train-
      the wind power division manufactures wind turbines for on-                   ings and consulting services for the divisions fossil power
      shore and offshore applications, including both geared tur-                  generation, wind power and oil & gas. financial results relat-
      bines and direct drive machines. the product portfolio is based              ing to the energy service division are included in these divi-
      on four product platforms, two for each of the onshore and off-              sions.
      shore applications. the onshore products have power ratings
      between 2.3 to 3.0 megawatts and rotor diameters ranging                     the energy sector distributes its products and services through
      from 93 to 113 meters. the power rating for offshore products                its own dedicated sales force, supported by siemens’ world-
      ranges from 3.6 to 6.0 megawatts, with rotor diameters rang-                 wide network of regional companies. additional sales chan-
      ing from 107 to 154 meters. the revenue mix of the division                  nels include joint ventures and licensing partners, especially
      may vary from reporting period to reporting period depending                 in markets requiring a high degree of local knowledge.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
158
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment      207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system            209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                   210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                      227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                      ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

the sector’s principal customers are large power utilities, inde-                        with a significant potential for modernization and new instal-
pendent power producers, and industrial companies, particu-                              lation such as the u.s.
larly in the oil and gas industry. because certain significant
­areas of the sector’s business, such as power plant construc-                           the energy sector’s business activities vary widely in size,
 tion, involve working on medium- to long-term projects for                              from selling components and performing comparatively small
 customers who may not require the sector’s services again in                            projects up to major turnkey contracts, such as for the con-
 the short term, the sector’s most significant customers tend to                         struction of a new power plant.
 vary significantly from year to year.
                                                                                         while the sector historically competed primarily with large in-
the fossil power generation division competes in all regions                             dustrial companies from industrialized countries, emerging
of the global fossil energy markets with demand in europe and                            market competitors have become more and more important,
in the u.s. driven mainly by the need to replace aged existing                           as they are increasingly expanding their operations beyond
inefficient and inflexible power plants, while demand in                                 the borders of their home markets. the sector’s competitors
emerging countries is driven by capacity additions required as                           vary by division.
a result of economic growth.
                                                                                         the fossil power generation division’s competition consists of
the wind power division is active in both the onshore and the                            a relatively small number of equipment manufacturers, some
offshore market segments around the world, and has main-                                 with very strong positions in their domestic markets, as well as
tained a leading position in the global offshore market for sev-                         a large number of engineering, procurement and construction
eral years. the division focuses on markets where it can enter-                          contractors. its principal competitors in gas turbines are alstom,
tain a profitable business, such as the u.s., the u.k. and scan-                         general electric and mitsubishi heavy industries, whereas its
dinavia, although debates over subsidy schemes in these                                  main competitors in steam turbines are alstom, bharat heavy
countries are causing some uncertainty and ultimately are ex-                            electricals limited, general electric and toshiba. in china,
pected to lead to increased price pressure. selected emerg-                              manufacturers have historically been mainly focused on their
ing-market countries are increasing their focus on wind energy                           large home market, but they have begun to evolve from local
as a way to increase resource independence, thus offering a                              to international suppliers. korean engineering and procure-
sound business perspective.                                                              ment companies offer a large range of products and solutions,
                                                                                         and position themselves as one-stop-shops that offer custom-
oil and gas, addressed by our oil & gas division, continue to                            er solutions from a single supplier. in instrumentation and
play a vital role in the world’s energy supply due to the increas-                       controls, abb and emerson electric are the division’s principal
ing demand for energy. oil has very little spare global produc-                          competitors.
tion capacity and, even in a weak global economy, demand still
outstrips supply. on a regional level, growth in the oil and gas                         the principal competitors in the onshore market served by the
market is mainly driven by the u.s., the middle east, russia,                            wind power division are enercon, gamesa, general electric,
brazil, and africa. to keep up with increasing demand and the                            goldwind, repower and vestas. in the offshore market the
depletion of existing reservoirs, the oil and gas industry is go-                        principal competitors are alstom, areva and repower. further-
ing deeper offshore and exploring unconventional resources                               more, vestas and mitsubishi heavy industries have announced
and state-of-the-art enhanced oil and gas recovery techniques                            that they are going to combine their individual capabilities to
such as subsea processing. in addition, stricter environmental                           also enter this market segment. the competitive situation dif-
regulations to reduce waste and emissions are putting pres-                              fers between the market segments. in the market for onshore
sure on the oil and gas industry to improve energy efficiency,                           wind farms, competition is widely dispersed without any one
creating opportunities for a leading solution and technology                             company holding a dominant share of the market. in contrast,
provider like siemens.                                                                   there are only a few major players in the market for technolog-
                                                                                         ically more complex offshore wind farms. overall, the wind
the main drivers in the markets addressed by the power                                   power industry suffers from overcapacity and is widely regard-
transmission division are expanding infrastructure in emerg-                             ed as being in an early stage of consolidation.
ing countries, equipment replacement and modernization in
mature economies, and integration of renewable energies.                                 the principal competitors of the oil & gas division vary by
the most important geographical markets are emerging coun-                               product; in automation and electrical equipment, they are abb
tries including brazil, china, and india, and mature markets                             and honeywell above all, whereas in compressors and steam




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               159
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      and gas turbines, they are dresser rand, general electric, man                      the imaging & therapy systems division provides large-scale
      diesel & turbo and solar turbines. overall, competition in the                      medical devices for diagnostic imaging and for image-guided
      markets served by the oil & gas division is characterized by a                      therapies. imaging equipment includes computed tomo-
      relatively small number of companies, some with a very strong                       graphs, magnetic resonance imaging equipment, angiography
      position in the broader market and some with a regional focus,                      systems for diagnostics, and positron emission tomography.
      playing key roles.                                                                  siemens is the market leader in these fields. image-guided
                                                                                          therapies mainly comprise angiography systems for minimally
      the primary competitors of the power transmission division                          invasive procedures and computed tomographs in radiation
      are abb with its power products and power systems divisions                         therapy planning. by increasing the synergy between imaging
      and the grid division of alstom. a few notable manufacturers                        equipment and therapy solutions, the division aims to help
      such as toshiba, china xd group or crompton greaves in cer-                         healthcare providers achieve better results with more efficient
      tain regions and niche specialists (e.g., tbea) represent anoth-                    processes.
      er group of competitors. international competition is increas-
      ing from manufacturers in emerging countries such as china,                         the clinical products division mainly comprises the busi-
      india and korea.                                                                    ness with ultrasound and x-ray equipment including mam-
                                                                                          mography. in addition to providing innovative high-end solu-
      healthcare                                                                          tions, the clinical products division focuses on the develop-
      the healthcare sector offers customers a comprehensive                              ment of cost-efficient, less complex equipment that meets
      portfolio of medical solutions across the treatment chain –                         essential customer requirements, particularly in emerging
      ranging from medical imaging to in-vitro diagnostics to inter-                      economies. the clinical products division also comprises the
      ventional systems and clinical information technology sys-                          internal supplier components and vacuum technology which
      tems – all from a single source. in addition, the sector provides                   also provides components to the imaging & therapy systems
      technical maintenance, professional and consulting services,                        division.
      and, together with financial services (sfs), financing to assist
      customers in purchasing the sector’s products.                                      the diagnostics division offers products and services in the
                                                                                          area of in-vitro diagnostics. in-vitro diagnostics is based on the
      external revenue of the healthcare sector was €13.598 billion                       analysis of bodily fluids such as blood or urine, and supplies
      in fiscal 2013, representing 18% of siemens revenue. the                            vital information for detecting and managing disease and con-
      following chart provides a geographic breakdown of the
      ­                                                                                   ducting patient risk assessments. the division’s product port-
      healthcare sector’s external revenue in fiscal 2013.                                folio represents a comprehensive range of diagnostic testing
                                                                                          systems and consumables, including offerings for clinical
             revenue share in % (location of customer)                                    chemistry and immunodiagnostics, molecular diagnostics
                                                                                          (i.e., testing for nucleic acids), hematology, hemostasis, micro-
                                                                asia, australia: 25%      biology, point-of-care testing and clinical laboratory automa-
      europe, c.i.s.,1                                                                    tion solutions.
      africa, middle east: 34%

      therein germany: 7%                                              americas: 41%
                                                                                          the customer solutions division provides healthcare infor-
                                                                     therein u.s.: 35%    mation technology (hit) systems. it is responsible for the sec-
                                                                                          tor’s service business and customer relationship management
                                                                                          on a global level. hit supports users in connection with their
                                                                                          tasks in the clinical, administrative and financial workflow to
             1   commenwealth of independent states.
                                                                                          support efficient, safe and quality patient care delivery. the
                                                                                          portfolio is comprised of integrated financial and clinical sys-
      the healthcare sector includes four divisions: imaging & ther-                      tems, electronic health record and health information ex-
       apy systems, clinical products, diagnostics and customer                           change as well as an expanding offering of systems optimiza-
       solutions. the sector also includes one sector-led business                        tion services. the service business is intended to leverage the
      unit, audiology solutions. in addition to its sector-level finan-                   sector’s installed base of imaging and diagnostics systems
      cial results, healthcare also separately breaks out financial                       worldwide. in particular, the division’s experience in remote
      ­results for the diagnostics division.                                              and proactive services, innovative service and educational of-
                                                                                          ferings, and logistics processes is intended to differentiate it




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance                   155   c.      combined ­management report
160
                                                         156   c.1     business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                         173   c.2     financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                         179   c.3     results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                         192   c.4     financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                         204   c.5     net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                            ­associated material o

from competition and drive process efficiency. the division al-                          cerner and allscript for healthcare information technology
so manages the global sales force of the sector and defines the                          systems and sonova, gn resound and william demant for
regional go-to-market approach to support a diverse customer                             ­audiology (hearing aids). the trend toward consolidation in
base with solutions for patient care.                                                     the sector’s industry continues. competition among the lead-
                                                                                          ing companies in the field is strong, including with respect
the sector-led business unit, audiology solutions, provides                               to price.
hearing aids.
                                                                                         industry
the customers of the healthcare sector include healthcare                                the industry sector offers a broad spectrum of products, solu-
providers such as hospital groups and individual hospitals,                              tions and services that help customers use resources and ener-
group and individual medical practices, reference and physi-                             gy more efficiently, improve productivity, and increase flexibili-
cian office laboratories, and outpatient clinics. the sector sells                       ty. the sector’s integrated technologies and holistic solutions
the majority of its products and services through its in-house                           primarily address industrial customers, particularly those in
sales staff, which is grouped in its customer solutions divi-                            the process and manufacturing industries. the portfolio spans
sion, supported by dedicated product specialists. in some                                industry automation, industrial software, drive products and
countries, the sector also uses dealers, particularly for the sale                       services, system integration, and solutions for industrial plant
of low-end products (such as low-end ultrasound and x-ray                                businesses. the sector has further strengthened its industrial
equipment). the sector’s products are serviced primarily by its                          software business with the acquisition of lms international
own dedicated personnel.                                                                 nv (lms), which was completed in fiscal 2013.

because a large part of healthcare’s revenue stems from recur-                           external revenue of the industry sector was €16.943 billion in
ring business, the sector’s business activities are to a certain                         fiscal 2013, representing 22% of siemens revenue. the follow-
extent resilient to short-term economic trends but are depen-                            ing chart provides a geographic breakdown of the industry
dent on regulatory and policy developments around the world.                             sector’s external revenue in fiscal 2013.

under regulations passed as part of the u.s. affordable care                                     revenue share in % (location of customer)

act, which became effective at the beginning of calendar year
2013, the u.s. medical technology industry is subject to an ex-                                                                                              asia, australia: 26%

cise tax on certain medical devices. currently, this tax impacts
our diagnostics and imaging businesses.                                                  europe, c.i.s.,1
                                                                                         africa, middle east: 55%
                                                                                                                                                                      americas: 19%

in fiscal 2013, the healthcare sector continued implementing                             therein germany: 25%                                                   therein u.s.: 12%
agenda 2013, a global initiative launched in fiscal 2012 to in-
crease its innovative capacity and competitiveness. agenda
2013 is the sector’s proactive response to the challenges
                                                                                                 1 commenwealth of independent states.
emerging from a changing market environment. to meet these
challenges, agenda 2013 provides for measures targeting inno-
vation, regional presence, competitiveness, and human re-                                the industry sector consists of three divisions: industry auto-
source development. these measures include focused invest-                               mation, drive technologies and customer services. the sector
ments in product development and expanded sales activities                               also includes a sector-led business unit, metals technologies.
in growth markets. agenda 2013 also encompasses a realign-                               in addition to its sector-level financial results, industry also
 ment of the radiation therapy business unit and a related                               breaks out financial results for the industry automation divi-
­research and development and sales cooperation with varian                              sion and the drive technologies division. financial results
 medical systems. in addition, agenda 2013 includes a program                            ­relating to the customer services division are included in re-
 to improve the cost position in the diagnostics division.                                 sults for industry automation, drive technologies and metals
                                                                                           technologies. in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, the sector
the healthcare sector’s principal competitors in medical imag-                            ­announced its plan to dispose of its business of mechanical,
ing are general electric, philips, toshiba, hitachi and hologic.                           biological and chemical water treatment and processing.
other competitors include roche, abbott, danaher, alere,                                   during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, this business fulfilled
biomérieux and sysmex for in-vitro diagnostics, mckesson,                                  the ­requirements to be reported as discontinued operations.




                                                                                                                      253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                      357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                      161
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      ­ esults for prior periods are reported on a comparable basis. in
      r                                                                            capability includes mechanical equipment, drives, motors,
      november 2013, siemens announced the sale of this business.                  electrics, automation, mechatronics, technological packages
      the transaction is subject to regulatory approval.                           and environmental systems.

      the industry automation division offers a range of standard                  the industry sector’s principal customers are industrial cus-
      products and system solutions for automation technologies                    tomers in a broad range of markets, including transportation
      used in the manufacturing and process industries. as one of                  and logistics, metals and mining, machinery, utilities and
      the leading providers of industry software, the division can                 automotive. the sector is active worldwide, including in
                                                                                   ­
      help manufacturing companies optimize their entire value                     emerging markets, especially those in the asia, australia re-
      chain: from product design and development, through pro­                     gion, which sector management believes to have long-term
      duction, to sales and service. the division’s offerings include              growth potential. apart from the siemens brand, the sector
      automation systems and software, motor controls, machine-­                   markets some parts of its portfolio under different brand
      to-machine communication products, sensors, product and                      names (such as flender for gears or winergy for wind turbine
      production lifecycle management products, and software for                   components) depending on geography and technology.
      simulating and testing mechatronic systems. in fiscal 2013, the
      division acquired lms, a provider of mechatronic simulation                  the sector sells its products primarily through dedicated
      software that expands and complements the division’s prod-                   ­personnel in siemens’ worldwide network of regional sales
      uct lifecycle management portfolio. as noted above, the di-                   units. in addition, it uses original equipment manufacturers,
       vestment of the mechanical, biological and chemical water                    solution providers, installers, general contractors, third-party
       treatment business was decided in fiscal 2013 and this busi-                 distributors and independent agents.
      ness is reported as discontinued operations for all periods
      covered in this annual report. the sale of this business,                    the sector has manufacturing locations worldwide, especially
      which is subject to regulatory approval, was announced in                    throughout north and south america, western and eastern
      ­november 2013.                                                              europe, and asia, allowing it to stay close to its major custom-
                                                                                   ers. in recent years, material costs have been subject to signifi-
      the drive technologies division offers products and compre-                  cant price volatility for metals, energy and other raw materials.
      hensive systems across the entire drive train. these offerings               the sector continues to work on reducing the use of hazard-
      are customized to the respective application and include nu-                  ous materials (e.g., lead) and to replace them in its products
      merical control systems, inverters, converters, motors (geared                and processes. sustainable products and processes, such as
      and gearless), drives and couplings. in addition, drive technol-             coking coal free iron production processes (corex), energy
      ogies supplies integrated automation systems for machine                     ­efficient motors and energy management play a major role in
      tools and production machines. the division also offers inte-                 its innovation strategy.
      grated lifecycle solutions and services for industries such as
      shipbuilding, cement, mining, and pulp and paper. with its                   product lifetimes in the sector’s product businesses typically
      e-car business, the division develops motors and inverters for               range from three to twenty years from introduction. lifecycles
      electric cars.                                                               tend to be shorter for products in which software and electron-
                                                                                   ics play an important role. the lifecycles in the solutions busi-
      the customer services division offers a comprehensive port-                  nesses tend to be longer, as the sector supports its customers
      folio of services and supports industrial customers in their                 with significant services through the whole life of their invest-
      ­efforts to increase their productivity. the portfolio includes              ment. the industry sector can be strongly affected by econom-
       product-related services and software solutions like condition              ic cycles, because markets for some of its business activities
       monitoring designed to enhance the reliability, profitability,              tend to react very quickly to changes in the overall economic
       ­efficiency and environmental performance of industrial plants.             environment. this pattern includes many of the business
                                                                                   ­activities of the industry automation division and those busi-
      the sector-led metals technologies business unit offers                       ness activities of the drive technologies division that serve
      ­engineering and plant-building services for the iron and steel               customers in the manufacturing industries. the markets for
       industry, and for the rolling sector of the aluminum and                     other business activities within the sector generally show a
       non-ferrous industries. the business unit provides technolo-                 more delayed response to changes in the overall economic
       gies, solutions, and services for metallurgical plants, integrat-            ­environment. this pattern includes those business activities of
       ed steelworks and minimills. its vertically integrated supply                 the drive technologies division that serve customers in




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
162
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

­ rocess industries, the energy and the infrastructure sector
p                                                                                        external revenue of the infrastructure & cities sector was
and activities of the metals technologies business unit.                                 €17.128 billion in fiscal 2013, representing 23% of siemens reve-
                                                                                         nue. the following chart provides a geographic breakdown of
competitors of the industry sector can be grouped into two                               the infrastructure & cities sector’s external revenue in fiscal
categories: multinational companies that offer a relatively                              2013.
broad portfolio, and companies that are active only in certain
of the geographic or product markets served by the industry                                      revenue share in % (location of customer)

sector. the sector’s principal competitors with broad portfolios
are multinational companies such as abb, emerson electric,                                                                                                   asia, australia: 14%

schneider electric and rockwell. in the industries in which the
                                                                                                                                                                  americas: 25%
sector is active, consolidation is occurring on several levels. in                       europe, c.i.s.,1
                                                                                         africa, middle east: 61%                                               therein u.s.: 19%
particular, suppliers of automation solutions have supple-
mented their activities with actuator or sensor technology,                              therein germany: 15%

while suppliers of components and products have supple-
mented their portfolio with complementary products for their
sales channels.
                                                                                                 1 commenwealth of independent states.


the main competitors of the industry automation division
are abb, schneider electric, rockwell and emerson electric.                              the sector consists of five divisions: rail systems; mobility
within its product lifecycle management business, the divi-                              and logistics; low and medium voltage; smart grid; and build-
sion also competes with, among others, dassault systèmes                                 ing technologies. financial results of the rail systems and the
and ptc. competitors of the drive technologies division in-                              mobility and logistics divisions are combined and reported
clude companies with broad business portfolios such as abb,                              ­together as the results of the sector’s transportation & logistics
emerson electric and mitsubishi electric but also specialist                              business. financial results of the divisions low and medium
companies such as fanuc, yaskawa, weg and sew. the main                                   voltage and smart grid are combined and reported together as
competitors of the metals technologies business unit are                                  the sector’s power grid solutions & products business.
danieli and sms.
                                                                                         the rail systems division comprises siemens’ rail vehicle
asian competitors are generally focused on large-scale produc-                           business, encompassing the entire spectrum of rolling stock –
tion and cost-cutting. european and u.s. competitors are typi-                           including high-speed trains, commuter trains, passenger
cally focused on high-quality lifecycle service. nevertheless,                           coaches, metros, people movers, light rail vehicles, locomo-
most major competitors have established global bases for their                           tives, bogies, traction systems and rail-related services. the
businesses. in addition, competition in the field has become                             division combines its expertise in the fields of mass transit,
increasingly focused on technological improvements and                                   regional and long-distance transportation, driverless systems,
price. intense competition, customer budget constraints and                              traction systems, bogies and onboard power supplies in order
rapid technical progress within the industry continue to cause                           to offer comprehensive know-how for sustainable, efficient
significant downward pressure on prices. in addition, competi-                           and reliable rail vehicles.
tors continue to shift their production to low-cost countries.
                                                                                         the mobility and logistics division primarily provides prod-
infrastructure & cities                                                                  ucts, solutions (including it solutions) and services for rail
the infrastructure & cities sector offers a wide range of tech-                          transportation operating systems, such as central control sys-
nologies for increasing the sustainability of metropolitan cen-                          tems, interlockings and automated controls. the division also
ters and urban infrastructures worldwide, such as integrated                             provides offerings for road traffic, including traffic detection,
mobility solutions, building and security systems, power                                 information and guidance systems. in fiscal 2013, the division
­distribution equipment, smart grid applications and low and                             announced its plans to divest its airport logistics business for
 medium-voltage products. while the sector has decided to                                cargo tracking and baggage handling and its postal automa-
 ­divest its airport logistics and postal automation business, it                        tion business for letter and parcel sorting. in fiscal 2013, the
  has acquired the rail automation business of invensys plc.,                            division acquired the rail automation business of invensys,
  u.k. (invensys) to expand and complement its rail automation                           which has a leading position as provider of signal services and
  business.                                                                              rail control and communication solutions.




                                                                                                                      253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                      357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                    163
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      the low and medium voltage division supplies electrical                     tion, the divisions of the sector use, to varying degrees,
      grid operators, large industrial electricity consumers and con-             third-party distributors, panel builders, original equipment
      struction markets with medium and low-voltage electrical                    manufacturers, value added partners, installers and general
      power equipment. furthermore, the division provides prod-                   contractors.
      ucts, systems and services for distributing electrical power
      from high-voltage transmission grid access to medium or                     overall, the sector’s principal customers are industrial, infra-
      low-voltage grids and for directing electrical power to end con-            structure and public customers in a broad range of markets,
      sumers and their access points. medium voltage equipment                    including construction and real estate, transportation and
      includes distribution switchgear, control gear, circuit breakers            ­logistics and utilities. the timing and extent to which a divi-
      and components for distributing and switching of electrical                  sion of the infrastructure & cities sector is affected by econom-
      power coming from the high voltage transmission grid to the                  ic cycles depends largely on the kind of business activities it
      medium voltage distribution grid and within the medium volt-                 conducts. business activities that tend to react very quickly to
      age grid itself. the low voltage portfolio consists of power dis-            changes in the overall economic environment include those in
      tribution boards, busbar trunking systems, distribution boards               the low and medium voltage division. business activities that
      and terminal blocks, as well as products for protecting, switch-             are generally affected later by changes in the overall economic
      ing, measuring and monitoring devices and socket outlets.                    environment include those in the smart grid and building
                                                                                   technologies divisions. the development of markets served by
      the smart grid division provides energy automation solu-                     our divisions rail systems, mobility and logistics and parts of
      tions, smart grid applications, transmission and distribution                smart grid is driven primarily by public spending. customers
      services and rail infrastructure electrification solutions for               of these divisions usually have multi-year planning and imple-
      mainline and mass transit applications. in addition, the divi-               mentation horizons, and their contract tenders therefore tend
      sion offers meter data management solutions and services                     to be independent of short-term economic trends.
      ­relating to the planning of electric network grids and the oper-
       ation and maintenance of transmission and distribution prod-               the sector’s principal competitors are multinational com­
       ucts, systems and solutions.                                               panies such as abb, alstom, ansaldo, bombardier, general
                                                                                  electric, honeywell, johnson controls, schneider electric and
      the building technologies division offers products, services                ­tyco. the sector’s competitors vary by division. the main com-
      and solutions for commercial, industrial, public and residential             petitors of the rail systems division and the mobility and
      buildings. primary applications include building operation and               ­logistics division are alstom, ansaldo sts, bombardier and
      automation, comfort, safety and security. in addition, the divi-              general electric. the primary competitors of the low and
      sion offers energy solutions and energy management ser-                       ­medium voltage division are abb, eaton and schneider elec-
      vices aimed at improving a building’s energy cost, reliability,                tric. the principal competitors of the smart grid division are
      comfort and performance, while minimizing its impact on                        abb, alstom, general electric and schneider electric. the main
      the en­vironment. the division’s offerings include heating                     competitors of the building technologies division are honey-
      and ventilation controls, security systems and devices for                     well, johnson controls, schneider electric and tyco. infra-
      intruder detection, video surveillance and building access
      ­                                                                              structure & cities also faces competition from niche compe­
      control, total room automation systems, and fire safety solu-                  titors and from new entrants, such as utility companies
      tions for fire detection, protection alarms and non-water-                     and consulting firms, exploiting the fragmented energy effi-
      based fire extinguishing.                                                      ciency market. the sector’s solution businesses also compete
                                                                                     with engineering, procurement and construction providers,
      until the end of fiscal 2013, the infrastructure & cities sector               and competitors in the service field often include small local
      also held the atos s.a. (atos) shares, which siemens received                  players.
      following the sale of siemens it solutions and services to
      atos. due to a change in management responsibility related to               equity investments
      siemens’ shares in atos, the shares have been included within               in general, the segment equity investments comprises equity
      equity investments since the beginning of fiscal 2014.                      stakes held by siemens that are accounted for by the equity
                                                                                  method, at cost or as current available-for-sale financial assets
      the infrastructure & cities sector distributes its products and             and for strategic reasons are not allocated to a sector, sfs, cen-
      services through its own dedicated sales force, supported by                trally managed portfolio activities, siemens real estate (sre),
      siemens’ worldwide network of regional companies. in addi-                  corporate items or corporate treasury. our main investments




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance             155   c.    combined ­management report
164
                                                   156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                   173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                   179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                   192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                   204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

within equity investments are our stake of 50% in bsh bosch                              tions. their offerings comprise debt financing, equity parti­
und siemens hausgeräte gmbh (bsh), our stake of 17% in                                   cipations and financial advisory services. in addition, the
osram licht ag (osram) as well as our 49% stake in enter-                                project, structured & leveraged finance healthcare business
                                                                                         ­
prise networks holdings b.v. (en). in the fourth quarter of fis-                         unit offers leveraged solutions across all siemens businesses.
cal 2013, siemens closed the sale of its 50% stake in nokia
siemens networks holding b.v. (nsn) to the other shareholder                             these four business units each have a global mandate. the fo-
nokia corporation. osram was formerly wholly owned by                                    cus of their activities is directly or indirectly related to siemens
siemens. effective july 5, 2013, siemens spun off osram. the                             sectors’ businesses, predominantly in the energy, healthcare,
spin-off was made on the basis of the spin-off and transfer                              industry and infrastructure markets. their customers comprise
agreement dated november 28, 2012, authorized by the annual                              siemens sector customers as well as third-party vendors. the
shareholders’ meeting of siemens ag on january 23, 2013.                                 business units serve customers of all sizes including small-
with the spin-off, siemens shareholders received one osram                               and medium-sized enterprises, corporations and public sector
share per ten siemens ag shares. a total of 80.5% of the                                 organizations.
osram shares became widely held shares. following the
­spin-off, a further 2.5% of the shares were transferred to the                          the venture capital business segment’s main task, together
 siemens pension trust e.v. on july 8, 2013 osram started                                with siemens’ sectors, is to identify and finance young compa-
 trading on the stock exchange. due to a change in manage-                               nies worldwide during their start-up phase, thereby helping
 ment responsibility ­ related to siemens’ shares in atos, the                           siemens’ sectors to access new technological solutions and
 shares, which were held by the infrastructure & cities sector                           tap new markets.
 until the end of fiscal 2013, are included within equity invest-
 ments effective with the ­beginning of fiscal 2014.                                     the treasury business unit operates the global corporate
                                                                                         treasury of the siemens group, with sfs employees thereby
financial services                                                                       managing liquidity, cash and financial risks (interest, foreign
financial services (sfs) provides a variety of financial ser-                            exchange, commodities) on behalf of corporate treasury.
vices and products to other siemens units and their customers
and to third parties. sfs has three strategic pillars: supporting                        the financing & investment management business unit man-
siemens units with finance solutions for their customers,                                ages fee-based receivables and offers investment management
managing financial risks of siemens and offering third-party                             services. sfs operates the credit warehouse, i.e., it is engaged
finance services and products. financial services intends to                             in the process of monitoring and warehousing short-term
grow its business in a profitable, controlled manner.                                    trade receivables originated by the operating units and par­
                                                                                         tially transferred to corporate treasury. the investment man-
sfs’ business can be divided into capital business and fee                               agement services focus on pension asset management for
business. while capital business predominantly relates to                                siemens as well as selected external clients.
financial assets on sfs’ statements of financial position
­
­generating income from customers of siemens’ sectors and                                the insurance business unit acts primarily as an insurance
 other third parties, fee business mainly comprises internal                             broker for siemens and external customers. the business unit
 services provided to siemens. sfs conducts its business                                 supports siemens and non-affiliated companies in all insur-
 through seven business units, one business segment (ven-                                ance-related matters such as claims management as well as
 ture capital) and two functions: corporate pensions and                                 risk transfer to insurance and financial markets, including
 trade finance advisory.                                                                 structured solutions using own re-insurance capacities. it also
                                                                                         acts as broker of selected siemens-financed insurance policies
the commercial finance business unit offers a comprehen-                                 for employees.
sive range of solutions for equipment financing, leasing, rental
and related financing for equipment supplied by siemens or                               sfs’ products and services are provided through a network of
third-party providers.                                                                   companies, located throughout europe (including russia),
                                                                                         asia pacific (including china and india) and north america,
the project & structured finance energy; project, struc-                                 comprising non-regulated, partially or fully regulated entities,
tured & leverage finance healthcare and project & struc-                                 such as siemens bank gmbh. siemens bank gmbh’s banking
tured finance infrastructure and cities & industry business                              license, which was granted by the german federal financial
units offer a broad range of project & structured financing solu-                        supervisory authority (bundesanstalt für finanzdienstleis-




                                                                                                                253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                165
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      tungsaufsicht), covers engaging in loan and guarantee business                                        economy does not yet bring annual growth figures back to
      as well as in deposit taking and enables access to the deposit                                        ­prior-year level. global gdp growth is expected to slow to 2.4%
      and refinancing facilities of the deutsche bundesbank. in its                                          in calendar 2013 from 2.7% in calendar 2012. growth of global
      transactions with siemens and third parties, sfs observes                                              fixed investment spending and value added manufacturing –
      ­international banking industry standards, where applicable.                                           both important indicators for siemens as a producer of capital
                                                                                                             goods – is projected to decline to an even greater degree: fixed
      sfs’ competition mainly includes commercial finance opera-                                             investments from 4.1% in 2012 to 3.1% in 2013, and value-added
      tions of banks, independent commercial finance companies,                                              manufacturing from 2.9% in 2012 to 2.1% in 2013. these global
      captive finance companies and asset management companies.                                              aggregate figures reflect fairly divergent developments. on the
      international competitors include bnp paribas equipment                                                one hand, most advanced countries’ economies were gaining
      ­finance, de lage landen, general electric commercial finance,                                         momentum in the course of calendar 2013. on the other hand
       macquarie, société générale equipment finance and sumitomo                                            many emerging countries were losing momentum compared to
       mitsui financial group. particularly in the commercial finance                                        higher growth rates in the past.
       business, sfs’ competitors are often local financial institutions
       and competition therefore varies from country to country.                                            in most of the larger european economies the recession has
                                                                                                            ended. for the first time after six quarters of shrinking gdp,
                                                                                                            euro zone production increased again in the spring quarter of
      c.1.2 economic environment                                                                            2013. in addition, government bond yields receded clearly in
                                                                                                            the countries most affected by the sovereign debt crisis, which
      c.1.2.1 worldwide economic environment                                                                reduced their borrowing costs and put government budgets on
      the beginning of fiscal 2013 was accompanied by a further                                             a more sustainable path. the crisis in cyprus – the fifth coun-
      slowdown of the global economy. although european financial                                           try in the european union to receive an international bail-out
      markets calmed in reaction to a statement by the european cen-                                        – had only a temporary effect on yields and volatility in finan-
      tral bank (ecb) president committing the ecb to preserve the                                           cial markets. as governments kept tightening their budgets,
      euro, worldwide economic activity decreased thereafter. global                                         fiscal austerity remained a drag on the european economy. in
      gross domestic product (gdp) growth hit a trough of less than                                         addition, unresolved problems in the banking sector restricted
      2% in the fourth quarter of calendar 2012, and this continued                                         credit supply to the private sector. this lack of sufficient funds
      through the first quarter of calendar 2013. since then, the world                                     to finance investments still has the potential to stifle the re-
      economy has been reaccelerating, due to a slightly stronger u.s.                                      gion’s recovery. exchange rate developments involving the
      economy, a recovery in europe, the stabilization of chinese                                           ­euro did not support euro zone exports. in the middle east
      growth (which slowed at the beginning of 2013), and substan-                                           economic recovery continued to be very weak. in egypt, the
      tial improvements in japan. world gdp growth has picked up to                                          political crisis intensified again and the conflict in syria con­
      more than 3% for the rest of 2013. however, because of the                                             tinued to escalate. oil-exporting countries were affected by
      weak start to the year the recent reacceleration of the global                                         the slowdown of the world economy. gdp growth in these

             world real gdp growth (in % compared to previous period) 1

                                                   2009                                 2010                            2011                                 2012                             2013

             8
                 6                           4.8             4.5 5.0                     4.4
                                      3.6                                3.5 3.8                             3.7                   3.4                                       3.3 3.0 3.3
                 4
                                2.5                                                                                2.8 3.1                      2.4          2.7                                2.4
                                                                                                  2.0 2.4                                              1.8             1.8
                 2                                                                                                                       1.4
             0
            –2
                                                   (1.6)
            –4
            –6
            –8          (6.6)



                       quarterly gdp growth (seasonally adjusted annual rate)                      annual gdp growth
                                                                                                     
                       quarterly gdp growth forecast (seasonally adjusted annual rate)             annual gdp growth forecast
                                                                                                     
             1 siemens ag, based on an ihs global insight report as of october 15, 2013.




       92   a.       to our shareholders
      117   b.       corporate ­governance                                155     c.     combined ­management report
166
                                                                          156     c.1    business and ­economic environment               207    c.6    overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                          173     c.2    financial performance system                     209    c.7    subsequent events
                                                                          179     c.3    results of operations                            210    c.8    sustainability
                                                                          192     c.4    financial position                               227    c.9    r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                          204     c.5    net assets position                                                                 ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                        ­associated material o

countries was decreasing below historical trends. despite some                           caused foreign capital to exit the country and the rupee to
moderation in commodity prices, gdp growth in africa picked                              lose one fifth of its value against the u.s. dollar within one
up slightly. however, uncertainty on the economic and political                          year. these adverse developments for the asia, australia re-
fronts poses a continuing threat to african economic develop-                            gion were counterbalanced by the recovery of the japanese
ment. economic activity in the c.i.s. countries, which is mainly                         economy. the government’s unusual measures to kick-start
determined by its largest member, russia, was weak again in                              the japanese economy out of its deflationary spiral seem to be
2013. similar to some other emerging countries, russia suf-                              successful: gdp expanded by a 4% annual rate in the first half
fered from a reversal of capital flows out of the country. in sum,                       of 2013. although gdp growth for the asia, australia region re-
the region europe, c.i.s., africa and middle east in 2013 is proj­                       mained stable in 2013, growth of fixed investment and val-
ected to grow at nearly the same modest rate of 1% as in 2012.                           ue-added manufacturing slowed by roughly one percentage
investment spending performed even worse: it contracted 1%                               point, to 5.4% and 3.6%, respectively compared to 2012.
in 2013, after it had already shrunk 0.4% in 2012. value added
manufacturing also stagnated in 2013 after a decline in 2012.                                    real gdp growth per region (change in % compared to prior year)1

                                                                                                                  world    europe, c.i.s.,3         americas               asia,
                                                                                                                                   africa,                              australia
the americas region saw significantly slower growth in 2013:                                                                  middle east
gdp increased 1.8%, after growth of 2.7% in 2012. the u.s. was
the main factor, due to budget tightening measures (the “se-                                     5                                                                      4.8 4.7
quester”) which started at the beginning of calendar 2013.                                       4
­according to an international monetary fund estimate, the                                       3                  2.7                                    2.7
                                                                                                             2.4
 ­sequester reduced the country ’s 2013 growth rate by as much                                   2                                                   1.8
  as 1.75 percentage points. accordingly, gdp figures for the u.s.                                                                  1.0 1.1
                                                                                                 1
  are masking a gradual improvement in the private sector. for
  example, the construction sector was recovering further, con-
  sumer spending was growing moderately, and fixed invest-                                             2013 2            2012
                                                                                                 1 source: siemens ag, based on an ihs global insight as of october 15, 2013.
  ments – which were affected most by the political uncertain-
                                                                                                    growth rates provided by calendar year.
  ties and even went to negative growth at the beginning of                                      2 estimate for calendar year 2013.
  2013 – were picking up. monetary policy continued to be very                                   3 commonwealth of independent states.

  expansionary, although fears of a gradual reduction (“taper-
  ing”) of “quantitative easing” measures caused long-term inter-                        the partly estimated figures presented here for gross domestic
  est rates to rise. latin american growth was low and roughly                           product, fixed investments and manufacturing value added
  unchanged compared to 2012. after a very low gdp increase of                           are calculated by siemens ag based on an ihs global insight
  0.9% in 2012, the brazilian economy accelerated modestly to                            report dated october 15, 2013.
  2.4% in 2013. because the brazilian economy is estimated to
  operate near its potential, supply-side constraints have held                          our businesses are dependent on the development of raw ma-
  back growth and exacerbated inflationary pressures. for the                            terial prices. key materials to which we have significant cost
  americas region overall, growth of investment spending and                             exposure include copper, various grades and formats of steel
  value-added manufacturing both slowed in 2013: fixed invest-                           and aluminum. in addition, within stainless steel we have ex-
  ment growth from 4.6% in 2012 to 3.0% in 2013, value-added                             posure related to nickel and ferro-alloy materials.
  manufacturing from 4.3% to 1.8%.
                                                                                         the average monthly price of copper (denominated in € per
in asia, australia gdp growth in 2013 is expected to remain at                           metric ton) for september 2013 was 15% lower than the aver-
4.8%, virtually the same level as in the two previous years. in                          age monthly price in september 2012, reflecting a more moder-
the first half of 2013, the chinese economy continued to slow                            ate economic sentiment during fiscal 2013 and increasing pro-
down to 7.5% gdp growth year-over-year because global de-                                duction from new or extended mine projects. prices on a fis-
mand for chinese products was weaker and concerns emerged                                cal-year average were 5% lower in fiscal 2013 than the average
about the health of the country ’s financial system and the sus-                         for fiscal 2012. because copper is produced in multiple loca-
tainability of its public debt. india had to deal with even more                         tions and traded in multiple locations, such as the london
severe problems. the slowing economy, a current account                                  metal exchange, the risk to siemens is primarily a price risk
deficit, high inflation and unresolved structural problems                               rather than a supply risk.




                                                                                                                          253   d.     consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                          357   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                    167
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

              development of raw material prices (index: beginning of fiscal 2009 = 100)

                                          fy 2009                           fy 2010                            fy 2011                        fy 2012                            fy 2013

            220
            200
            180
            160
            140
            120
            100
            80
            60
            40




                      copper              aluminum (hg)             steel hrc
              source: london metal exchange (lme) for copper and aluminum, cru hrc germany for steel; cash prices in € per ton.




      average monthly prices of aluminum traded at the london                                          siemens employs various strategies to reduce the price risk in
      metal exchange were 17% lower in september 2013 as com-                                          its project and product businesses, such as long-term contract-
      pared to september 2012. prices on a fiscal-year average were                                    ing with suppliers, physical and financial hedging and price
      8% lower in fiscal 2013 than the average for fiscal 2012. higher                                 escalation clauses with customers.
      premiums for physically delivered aluminum offset the erosion
      of exchange prices to some extent. besides that, the alumi-                                      c.1.2.2 market development
      num industry is suffering from oversupply due to a combina-                                      overall, markets served by our energy sector grew moderately
      tion of weaker investment sentiment among customers and                                          in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012, with all of the sector’s
      rapid expansion of production capacities by manufacturers. as                                    businesses except for solar power benefiting from improved
      with copper, we see developments in the aluminum market as                                       market conditions year-over-year. in particular, the markets for
      posing a price risk, rather than a supply risk.                                                  fossil power, wind power and power transmission recovered
                                                                                                       from market declines in fiscal 2012 and returned to the levels
      the average monthly steel prices for september 2013 declined                                     reached in fiscal 2011.
      by 10% compared to the average monthly prices in september
      2012. prices on a fiscal-year average were 8% lower in fiscal                                    growth for the markets served by our fossil power genera-
      2013 than the average for fiscal 2012 (source: cru, an indepen-                                  tion division benefited from a shift towards larger, more effi-
      dent business analysis and consultancy group focused on,                                         cient units with higher power output. globally, customers in
      among other things, the mining and metals sectors).                                              emerging markets mainly added new capacities while custom-
                                                                                                       ers in advanced economies mainly replaced existing power
      our main exposure to the prices of copper and related prod-                                      plants that are now considered relatively inefficient and inflex-
      ucts, and to carbon steel and stainless steel, is in the sectors                                 ible. despite the overall growth of fossil markets, the market
      energy, industry and infrastructure & cities. our main price ex-                                 for advanced gas power plants remained approximately at the
      posure related to aluminum is in the energy sector. in addi-                                     same level as in fiscal 2012. demand in europe was held back
      tion, siemens is generally exposed to energy and fuel prices,                                    by an ongoing slow economic development and uncertainties
      both directly (electricity, gas, oil) and indirectly (energy used                                in regulatory frameworks. political instability impacted market
      in the manufacturing processes of suppliers, fuels included in                                   development in the middle east despite social and economic
      logistics costs).                                                                                pressure to add capacity. within the americas region, the u.s.




       92    a.   to our shareholders
      117    b.   corporate ­governance                               155   c.    combined ­management report
168
                                                                      156   c.1   business and ­economic environment              207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                      173   c.2   financial performance system                    209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                                      179   c.3   results of operations                           210   c.8   sustainability
                                                                      192   c.4   financial position                              227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                      204   c.5   net assets position                                                              ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                              ­associated material o

added gas turbines to replace aging infrastructure and take ad-                            particular strength in the u.s. on a geographic basis, markets
vantage of the country ’s ongoing natural gas boom. fossil                                 in asia, australia grew in the high single digits, including dou-
markets in the asia, australia region remained strong, with a                              ble-digit growth rates in china. markets in the americas
number of nations adding capacity. these included china and                              ­including the u.s. grew moderately. growth in the u.s. was
india for coal-fired power generation and south korea for gas-                            supported by strong demand for healthcare it solutions driven
fired power plants.                                                                       by the hitech act and the relevant portions of the affordable
                                                                                          care act. in contrast, markets in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle
in the markets served by our wind power division, growth                                  east declined slightly. in europe, markets experienced a
came from new offshore wind projects. also onshore wind                                   ­further decline in spending for healthcare in southern and
markets returned to a moderate growth path compared to                                     western european countries, which continued to suffer from
­fiscal 2012, except in the u.s. where concerns about potential                            the sovereign debt crisis.
 expiration of tax incentives had led to a market boom due to
 project pre-drawings in 2012.                                                           the overall market for our industry sector as well as for the
                                                                                         divisions industry automation and the drive technologies de-
the markets served by our oil & gas division rose on increased                           clined in fiscal 2013. while the pharmaceutical, chemical, auto-
investment demand for exploration and production of oil and                              motive and food and beverage markets grew slightly compared
gas. on a geographic basis, market growth for the division’s                             to the prior fiscal year, this growth was more than offset by
compression and oil and gas solutions business came mainly                               declines in other markets including particularly machine build-
from the u.s., the middle east, africa, russia, and brazil. growth                       ing and industry ’s markets for solutions and products for wind
in the division’s industrial power markets was led by asia, the                          power. on a regional basis, markets in asia, australia and the
middle east, and parts of europe. while market for small steam                           americas did not offer growth opportunities year-over-year,
turbines remained on previous year’s level, demand was stron-                            while markets in europe declined, particularly in southwest
ger for small-scale combined-cycle power plants.                                         europe. within the asia, australia region, growth accelerated
                                                                                         somewhat in china in the second half of fiscal 2013 following a
the markets served by our power transmission division re-                                weak development in the first half of the fiscal year. within the
covered from weakness a year earlier. while markets grew                                 americas, market development in the u.s. was supported by
slightly in most regions, year-over-year, growth was strongest                           lower energy prices due largely to a greater supply of energy
in north-east asia, the middle east, africa and the americas.                            produced in the u.s., primarily natural gas. but momentum
in emerging countries, growth was driven mainly by expan-                                ­declined somewhat during the fiscal year.
 sion of infrastructure. in industrialized economies, customers
 mainly replaced and modernized equipment and also integrat-                             within the markets served by our industry automation divi-
ed renewable sources into their transmission grids. despite                              sion, short-cycle manufacturing industries saw de-stocking by
the larger pattern of global growth, power transmission mar-                             customers which held back market development. industrial it
kets also suffered from overcapacities in certain segments,                              markets grew moderately, but slightly below their expected
­especially power transformers.                                                          long-term average growth rate.

in fiscal 2013, markets addressed by our healthcare sector                               markets served by our drive technologies division also saw
grew moderately year-over-year. growth was clearly driven by                             de-stocking effects within short-cycle industries. markets for
emerging markets, as these countries continue to expand                                  industrial infrastructure industries, including the division’s
­access to healthcare for a broader population and build up                              markets for solutions and products for wind power and rail
 their healthcare infrastructure. in contrast, markets in indus-                         markets, declined or showed no growth momentum. markets
 trialized countries grew only modestly compared to the prior                            for long-cycle industries such as mining and oil and gas grew
 fiscal year as demand was held back by healthcare reforms and                           only slightly year-over-year, or even declined. in some indus-
 budgetary constraints, particularly in europe. healthcare it                            tries customers delayed or postponed large infrastructure
 markets grew faster than the healthcare market as a whole, on                           projects.




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               169
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      overall, the market for the infrastructure & cities sector grew            c.1.3 strategy
      moderately in fiscal 2013. while markets served by the trans-
      portation & logistics business showed a steady recovery                    c.1.3.1 global megatrends
      ­including tenders for a number of large projects, markets for             global megatrends are long-term developments that are ex-
       the power grid solutions & products business and the building             pected to have an impact on all humanity. we at siemens
       technologies division showed little or no growth. customers               view demographic change, urbanization, climate change and
       cut spending in both these markets, and also delayed project              globalization as megatrends that will drive global demand in
       awards in the power grid solutions market.                                coming decades. we have aligned our strategy with these
                                                                                 ­developments and accordingly have organized our business
      in fiscal 2013, markets served by our transportation & logis-               into four sectors: energy, healthcare, industry, and infrastruc-
        tics business showed a steady recovery from the weak envi-                ture & cities.
        ronment a year earlier. moderate growth was driven by large
        contract awards, particularly in the u.k. and the middle east.           demographic change includes two major trends: the world’s
      furthermore, market growth was positively influenced by                    population continues to grow steadily, and it continues to get
      ­demand from major cities, which continued to invest in public             older. together, these two trends will challenge the ability of
       transport systems. on a regional basis, the highest growth                future healthcare systems to make healthcare available to
       rates came from asia, australia, driven by strong demand from             ­everyone. urbanization refers to the growing number of
       china. demand in the americas was also clearly up year-over-               densely-populated metropolitan centers around the world.
       year. within europe, market development was divided between                this trend intensifies the already strong demand for sustain-
       northwestern countries, which kept their public transport                  able and energy-efficient infrastructures for buildings, trans-
       ­investments stable and southern countries, which held back                portation systems, energy and water. we view climate change
        investments as part of wider austerity programs. as a result,             as a fact and that reducing greenhouse gas emissions is vital
        markets in the europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east region                 to counteract the increasingly drastic effects on our eco­
        showed the lowest growth of all regions.                                  system. there is a strong need for innovative technologies to
                                                                                  ­increase efficiency and reduce the emissions related to energy
      demand in the markets served by our power grid solutions &                   generation and consumption. globalization refers to the
      products business remained weak across all regions in fiscal                 ­increasing integration of the world’s economies, politics, cul-
      2013. higher demand from industrial customers was more                        ture and other areas of life. globalization leads to increased
      than offset by delayed project awards and reduced grid invest-                competitive pressure and demand for economical, timely-to-­
      ments by utility companies. reduced investments were partic-                  market, high-quality products and solutions.
      ularly evident in southern europe. investment sentiment was
      also affected by uncertainty in the regulatory environment,                c.1.3.2 strategy of the siemens group
      such as in germany which is undertaking a massive shift to                 our vision is to be a pioneer in
      renewable energy (“energiewende”). demand in the u.s.
      showed signs of recovery in the industry and construction cat-             >> energy efficiency,
      egories, but investment in power grid solutions by utilities               >> industrial productivity,
      ­remained weak.                                                            >> next-generation healthcare, and
                                                                                 >> intelligent infrastructure solutions.
      markets served by our building technologies division held
      steady year-over-year as customers were hesitant to increase               our company strategy guides us in turning our vision into real-
      investments. markets in the solution business suffered from                ity. we are aiming to be a market and technology leader in our
      ongoing price pressure due mainly to aggressive pricing by                 businesses, based on our values – to be responsible, excel-
      system houses and large providers of building technologies                 lent and innovative. we believe that this will position us to
      solutions. on a regional basis, slight market growth in asia,              achieve sustainable, profitable growth and thereby continually
      australia and the americas was largely offset by a slight de-              increase our company value. we intend to profit from the
      cline in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east.                              mega­trends described above.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance            155   c.    combined ­management report
170
                                                  156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                  173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                  179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                  192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                  204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                   ­associated material o

our strategy comprises what we call our three strategic                                   and mostly located in emerging markets. a second focus area
­directions:                                                                              is to expand our service business. we believe that the large in-
                                                                                          stalled base of our products and solutions at our clients pro-
>> focusing on innovation-driven growth markets,                                          vides promising growth opportunities for our service business.
>> getting closer to our customers, and                                                   services play a key role in profitable growth at siemens and,
>> using the power of siemens.                                                          in addition, long-term service agreements are less likely to be
                                                                                         impacted by economic fluctuations. to intensify our customer
one siemens is our framework for sustainable value creation,                             focus is our third focus area. we believe that customer proxim-
with a financial target system for capital-efficient growth and                          ity and local presence are important factors in being able to
the goal of continuous improvement relative to the market and                            ­respond quickly to changing market requirements.
our competitors.
                                                                                         in the strategic direction of using the power of siemens, our
one siemens defines financial key performance indicators for                             first focus area is to encourage lifelong learning and develop-
revenue growth, for capital efficiency and profitability, and for                        ment of our employees. we invest continuously in expanding
the optimization of our capital structure. in addition, we set                           the expertise of our people through tailored training and edu-
hurdle rates that generally need to be considered before we                              cation programs. we aim to develop the potential of our
proceed to make acquisitions. further, we defined an indicator                           ­employees worldwide by identifying talent and offering chal-
targeted at an attractive dividend policy. we believe that these                          lenging tasks. to empower our diverse and engaged people
indicators will play a key role in driving the value of our com-                          worldwide is our second focus area. we believe that the strong
pany. for further information, see          c.2 financial perfor-                         potential of our employees’ skills, experience and qualifica-
mance system .                                                                            tions can give us a clear competitive advantage in our global
                                                                                          markets. the third focus area is to stand for integrity. on the
to achieve our one siemens goal of sustainably enhancing the                              basis of our values, we have formulated clear and binding
value of siemens and exploiting the full potential of our com-                            principles of conduct that cover all aspects of our entrepre-
pany, we have defined three concrete focus areas along each                               neurial activities.
of the three strategic directions set forth above, which we aim
to address in the years ahead.                                                           beginning in fiscal 2013, we have been implementing “siemens
                                                                                         2014,” a company-wide program supporting the one siemens
in the strategic direction of focusing on innovation-driven                              framework for sustainable value creation. the goal of the pro-
growth markets, our first focus area is to be a pioneer in tech-                         gram is to reduce cost, increase competitiveness, and become
nology-driven markets. here, we intend to concentrate on                                 faster and less bureaucratic. our sectors are continuing to exe-
­markets that are widely expected to have future growth poten-                           cute a broad range of measures expected to yield sustainable
 tial, such as software and it. our second focus area is to                              productivity gains.
 strengthen our portfolio. we are actively and systematically
 managing our portfolio with the principal aim of having our                             c.1.3.3 sector strategies
 businesses achieve or maintain a no. 1 or no. 2 position in                             all sectors share the common target established in our one
 their respective markets. to provide a leading environmental                            siemens framework: to grow faster than our competitors with-
 portfolio is our third focus area: our environmental portfolio                          out compromising profitability in order to reach or maintain a
 increases our company ’s revenue and makes a significant con-                           leading position in their respective markets.
 tribution to ­climate protection.
                                                                                         our energy sector is one of the world’s leading suppliers of a
in the strategic direction of getting closer to our customers,                           wide range of products, solutions and services in the field of
one of our focus areas is to grow in emerging markets while                              energy technology. its know-how, products, solutions and key
maintaining our position in our established markets. we plan                             components span the entire energy generation and transmis-
to offer more products, solutions and services for the rapidly                           sion chain. the energy sector focuses its business and portfolio
growing entry-level segments, which are more price-sensitive                             on large and strongly growing markets such as gas turbines,




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               171
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      wind turbines, and the oil and gas industry. through strong                 cations in automation, drive train systems and service. its on-
      and continuing innovation efforts, it aims to ensure the tech-              going strategic approach is to continuously drive innovation
      nological leadership of its products, solutions and services. the           and seamlessly integrate the different software for product de-
      sector is active on a global basis with special emphasis on cer-            sign, engineering, and collaboration with digital manufactur-
      tain countries and regions such as the u.s., china, the middle              ing and production execution. the sector is an established
      east, and europe. the sector aims to ensure its market position             player in discrete manufacturing industries such as the auto-
      through a balanced business model that includes not only                    motive industry and aims to grow its business in hybrid and
      highly competitive products, but also comprehensive solutions               process industries (e.g. food and beverage).
      which demonstrate its integration competence. this offering is
      supplemented by strong services which help the sector secure                the drive train system business in manufacturing and process
      customer proximity and enable a constant flow of revenue.                   industries, and energy and infrastructure builds on the integra-
                                                                                  tion of gears, motors, inverters and motion control and is seam-
      our healthcare sector strives to be the pioneer in next-gener-              lessly integrated with the sector’s software and it solutions.
      ation healthcare. it aims to outpace its respective markets and             the sector’s product business is complemented by its service
      generate high returns by helping customers gain efficiencies                business: in addition to servicing its installed base, the sector
      in healthcare delivery. these efficiencies are a key imperative             is growing technology based value-added services such as
      in meeting globally increasing demand for healthcare in bud-                ­energy and environmental services. in its solution business, it
      get-constrained environments. in anticipation of increased                   offers a complete set of solutions for specific i­ndustries such
      ­demand in economically challenging times, the sector had                    as automotive. in addition, its metals technologies business
       launched and completed “agenda 2013,” which started in fiscal               unit – a life-cycle partner for customers of ­metallurgical plants –
       2012 and was implemented by the end of fiscal 2013. “agenda                 drives innovation and continues to e      ­xpand its presence in
       2013” was a program to drive innovation and competitiveness                 emerging countries. regionally, the core markets of the sector
       across the portfolio, to broaden the regional footprint and to              are in developed and emerging economies with a large indus-
       drive people excellence across the sector.                                  trial base, in particular in ger­many, china and the u.s.

      healthcare constantly renews its portfolio to ensure that it                the strategy of infrastructure & cities sector is to focus on
      meets the future needs of its customers, both in terms of qual-             three areas: strategies to grow beyond; effective go-to-market;
      ity and price, and to continuously improve its cost position.               and profitability of the core business.
      the sector endeavors to improve operational excellence in its
      various businesses, and make use of new growth opportuni-                   in the focus area to grow beyond, the sector defines its offer-
      ties in healthcare. these opportunities arise from closer inte-             ings for targeted growth markets. one focus is to increase the
      gration between diagnostics and therapy, and increasing                     offering of entry-level products. in addition, the sector aims to
      ­demand from emerging markets. the sector’s integrated ap-                  increase market shares for its vertical it and software-based
       proach covers the entire medical treatment chain – from pre-               business, and for its intelligent infrastructure solutions. it also
       vention and early detection to diagnosis, therapy and aftercare.           strives for focused capital allocation and portfolio expansion.
       it combines medical imaging and therapy systems, laboratory                in the effective go-to-market area, the sector aims to strength-
       diagnostics and healthcare it systems.                                     en its sales approach in the city and infrastructure markets,
                                                                                  e.g. by addressing infrastructure customers through one lead
      the industry sector aims to drive the productivity, efficiency              division. another focus area is to secure and improve the prof-
      and flexibility of its customers by seamlessly integrating the              itability of the sector. levers for this area are flawless order
      industry value chain. it is pursuing its strategic path to be-              backlog execution; rigorous working capital management; ex-
      come a provider of a comprehensive portfolio of industrial                  cellence in procurement; an increase in global value sourcing;
      software and it solutions. this portfolio will cover the entire             containing selling, general and administrative expenses; es-
      industrial product design and production lifecycle. the sector              tablishing lean processing; and maintaining a global focus on
      also continues to add vertically integrated products and appli-             employee development and recruiting.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance             155   c.    combined ­management report
172
                                                   156   c.1   business and ­economic environment        207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                   173   c.2   financial performance system              209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                   179   c.3   results of operations                     210   c.8   sustainability
                                                   192   c.4   financial position                        227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                   204   c.5   net assets position                                                        ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

c.2  financial performance system


c.2.1 overview                                                                                         c.2.3 profitability and capital efficiency
as part of one siemens, we have developed a financial target                                           within the framework of one siemens it is our goal to achieve
system for capital-efficient growth that we believe will in-                                           margins throughout the entire business cycle that are compa-
crease the value of our company. our goal is to achieve contin-                                        rable to those of the best competitors within our markets. we
uous improvement relative to the market and our competitors.                                           seek to maintain or improve the profitability of our businesses
the financial target system defines indicators for revenue                                             as appropriate. therefore we have defined adjusted ebitda
growth, profitability and capital efficiency, the optimization                                         margin ranges for our four sectors. these are defined as the
of our capital structure, and our dividend policy. in addition,                                        ratio of adjusted ebitda (as presented in       c.3.3 reconcilia-

we set hurdle rates that generally must be considered before                                           tion to adjusted ebitda (continuing operations) ) to revenue.

we make acquisitions.                                                                                  adjusted ebitda target margin ranges for the sectors, and
                                                                                                       their performance are shown in the chart below.
in the following subchapters we describe financial perfor-
mance measures which have been defined in accordance                                                            adjusted ebitda margins 1

with one siemens and are used to manage and control activi-                                                                            margin                                             target range
ties at the group level. these measures are or may be non-
                                                                                                       energy
gaap financial measures. other companies that report or de-
                                                                                                         fy 2013                        9.9%
scribe similarly titled financial measures may calculate them                                                                                                                              10 – 15%
                                                                                                         fy 2012                        8.9%
differently.
                                                                                                       healthcare
                                                                                                         fy 2013                       19.8%
                                                                                                                                                                                           15 – 20%
c.2.2 revenue growth                                                                                     fy 2012                       18.5%

                                                                                                       industry
we believe that profitable revenue growth is an important
                                                                                                         fy 2013                       11.6%
driver for increasing our company ’s value over the long term.                                                                                                                             11 – 17%
                                                                                                         fy 2012                       15.5%
within the framework of one siemens we have set ourselves
the goal to grow our revenue faster than the average revenue                                           infrastructure & cities

growth of our most relevant competitors. for comparison with                                             fy 2013                        3.7%
                                                                                                                                                                                            8 – 12%
our competitors, our revenue growth is calculated as the                                                 fy 2012                        7.5%

growth rate of reported revenue as presented in the consoli-
dated financial statements. for purposes of measuring, man-                                                     1 adjusted ebitda margins of respective markets throughout business cycle.
                                                                                                                      target range
aging and controlling the organic revenue growth this growth
rate is adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.
a detailed analysis regarding revenue growth is provided in                                            in fiscal 2013, we used income from continuing operations at
   c.3.1.1 orders and revenue .                                                                        the group level to measure, manage and control profitability.
                                                                                                       for a detailed analysis of this measure refer to      c.3.1.2 con-
         revenue growth                                                                                solidated statements of income . effective with the beginning of

                                                                                                       fiscal 2014, we use net income. this measure is the primary
 revenue current period                                                                                driver of basic earnings per share (eps) from net income,
		                         – 1   × 100%
 revenue prior-year period                                                                             which we use for communicating with the capital markets.

                                                                                                       within the framework of one siemens we seek to work profit-
actual
                                                                                                       ably and as efficiently as possible with the capital of our share-
 fy 2013                         (2)%
                                                                                                       holders and lenders. we manage and control our capital effi-
 fy 2012                           7%
                                                                                                       ciency using adjusted return on capital employed, or roce
adjusted 1                                                                                             (adjusted), for continuing operations. this financial measure
 fy 2013                         (1)%                                                                  assesses our generated income from the point of view of our
 fy 2012                           3%                                                                  shareholders and lenders. roce (adjusted) for continuing op-
                                                                                                       erations is d
                                                                                                                   ­ efined as income from continuing operations be-
         1   adjusted for currency translation and portfolio effects.                                  fore interest after tax divided by average capital employed. we




                                                                                                                                         253    d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                         357    e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                         173
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance                 246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                               ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant                   250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      intend to achieve a target for roce (adjusted) for continuing                               return on equity (roe) (after tax)

      operations of 15% to 20%. roce (adjusted) for continuing oper-
      ations amounted to 13.8% in fiscal 2013, compared to 15.5% a                              sfs’ profit after tax
                                                                                                                                          × 100 %
      year earlier. the decrease was due to a combination of lower                              sfs’ average allocated equity
      income from continuing operations and higher average capital
      employed. roce (adjusted) for continuing and discontinued
      operations amounted to 13.5% in fiscal 2013, compared to 13.1%                        fy 2013                    17.1%
      a year earlier. for information on the calculation of roce (ad-                       fy 2012                    21.9%

      justed) and its components see      c.2.7 additional information

      for financial performance measures . siemens’ weighted aver-                                      target range: 15 – 20%

      age cost of capital (wacc) at the end of fiscal 2013 was approx-
      imately 7.5%.
                                                                                          c.2.4 capital structure
             return on capital employed (roce (adjusted))
             (continuing operations)
                                                                                          a key consideration within the framework of one siemens is to
                                                                                          maintain ready access to the capital markets through various
            income from continuing operations before interest after tax                   debt products and preserve our ability to repay and service our
                                                                          × 100%
            average capital employed                                                      debt obligations over time. therefore, we use the ratio of ad-
                                                                                          justed industrial net debt to adjusted ebitda for managing
                                                                                          and controlling our capital structure and as an indicator for the
       fy 2013                   13.8%                                                    required period in years to repay the adjusted industrial net
       fy 2012                   15.5%                                                    debt. interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are not
                                                                                          taken into consideration for purposes of this financial mea-
                   target range: 15 – 20%                                               sure. our goal is to achieve a ratio in the range of 0.5 – 1.0. the
                                                                                          capital structure ratio as of september 30, 2013 increased to
      our financial indicator for measuring capital efficiency at                         0.34, compared to 0.24 a year earlier. this difference was due
      ­financial services (sfs) is return on equity after tax, or roe                     to an increase of adjusted industrial net debt and a decrease of
       (after tax), in line with common practice in the financial ser-                    adjusted ebitda (continuing operations). for more informa-
       vices industry. we define roe (after tax) as sfs’ profit after tax,                tion, see    c.3.3 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda (continuing

       divided by sfs’ average allocated equity. for purposes of calcu-                   operations) and      c.4.2 capital structure .

       lating roe (after tax), the relevant income tax is calculated on
       a simplified basis, by applying an assumed 30% flat tax rate to                            capital structure (continuing operations)

       sfs’ profit, excluding income (loss) from investments account-
       ed for using the equity method, net, which is basically net                              adjusted industrial net debt
       of income tax already, and tax-free income components and                                adjusted ebitda
       others such as components which have already been taxed or
       are generally tax-free. we intend to achieve a target for roe
       (after tax) of 15% to 20% at sfs.                                                    fy 2013                      0.34
                                                                                            fy 2012                      0.24


                                                                                                        target range: 0.5 – 1.0




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance                     155   c.    combined ­management report
174
                                                           156   c.1   business and ­economic environment                 207       c.6    overall assessment of the economic position
                                                           173   c.2   financial performance system                       209       c.7    subsequent events
                                                           179   c.3   results of operations                              210       c.8    sustainability
                                                           192   c.4   financial position                                 227       c.9    r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                           204   c.5   net assets position                                                                      ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                           ­associated material o

c.2.5 dividend and share buybacks                                                          outlays for siemens publicly announced share buybacks (ex-
                                                                                           cluding incidental transaction charges) during fiscal 2013
we intend to continue providing an attractive return to share-                           ­totaled €1.152 billion and represent 26% of net income. the
holders. therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a                              percentage for fiscal 2012 was 41% with outlays for share
dividend payout which, combined with outlays during the fis-                              ­buybacks in the amount of €1.766 billion.
cal year for publicly announced share buybacks, results in a
sum representing 40% to 60% of net income, which for this                                with the spin-off of osram in fiscal 2013, siemens sharehold-
purpose we may adjust to exclude selected exceptional non-                               ers received one osram share per ten siemens ag shares. for
cash effects. furthermore, for fiscal 2014, we are taking pro-                           additional information regarding the spin-off of osram, see
ceeds from the sale of the nsn stake in fiscal 2013 into consid-                            c.1.1.2 business description .

eration. as in the past, we intend to fund the dividend payout
from free cash flow.
                                                                                         c.2.6 additional measures
at the annual shareholders’ meeting, the managing board, in
agreement with the supervisory board, will submit the follow-                            in addition to the financial performance measures discussed
ing proposal to allocate the unappropriated net income of                                above, we use several other financial measures to assess the
siemens ag for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2013: to                              economic success of our business activities. to determine
distribute a dividend of €3.00 on each no-par value share enti-                          whether a particular investment is likely to generate value for
tled to the dividend for fiscal year 2013 existing at the date of                        siemens, we use net present value or economic value added
the annual shareholders’ meeting, with the remaining amount                              (eva™). eva™ considers the cost of capital in calculating value
to be carried forward. payment of the proposed dividend is                               creation by comparing the expected earnings of an investment
contingent upon approval by siemens shareholders at the                                  against the cost of capital employed. eva™ is also an indicator
­annual shareholders’ meeting on january 28, 2014. the prior                             for measuring capital efficiency in our sectors and at sfs.
 year dividend was €3.00 per share.
                                                                                         to measure liquidity management of our operating activities,
the proposed dividend of €3.00 per share for fiscal 2013 rep-                            we analyze net operating working capital turns. in addition,
resents a total payout of €2.529 billion based on shares out-                            we set hurdle rates that generally must be considered before
standing as of september 30, 2013. based on net income of                                we make acquisitions. in particular, acquisitions should have
€4.409 billion for fiscal 2013, the dividend payout percentage                           the potential to be accretive to eva™ within three years after
would be 57%. the percentage for fiscal 2012 was 59%, based                              the integration and generate a 15% cash return within five
on a total dividend payout of €2.528 billion and a net income of                         years. cash return is defined as free cash flow divided by aver-
€4.282 billion. net income in fiscal 2012 was adjusted retro-                            age capital employed.
spectively for effects of adopting ias 19r.

       dividend payout percentage



      total dividend payout
                                × 100%
      net income



 fy 2013                     57%
 fy 2012                     59%




                                                                                                              253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                              357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                              175
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.2.7 additional information
      for financial performance measures

      c.2.7.1 return on capital employed
      (roce (adjusted))
      as part of one siemens, we monitor our capital efficiency us-                                     this financial measure as defined under one siemens and also
      ing the financial measure return on capital employed roce                                         provide a reconciliation to roce (adjusted) for continuing and
      (adjusted) (continuing operations). the following tables report                                   discontinued operations.



       (in millions of €)                                                                                           09/30/2013       06/30/2013           03/31/2013         12/31/2012       09/30/2012
       capital employed fiscal 2013
       total equity                                                                                                    28,625             27,909             26,620            30,551           31,424
       plus: long-term debt                                                                                            18,509             19,140             20,182            16,651           16,880
       plus: short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt                                                    1,944             3,656              2,752             3,709             3,826
       less: cash and cash equivalents                                                                                 (9,190)             (6,071)           (7,892)           (7,823)         (10,891)
       less: current available-for-sale financial assets                                                                  (601)              (506)              (533)             (517)             (524)
       plus: post-employment benefits                                                                                    9,265             9,325              9,890             9,856             9,801
       less: sfs debt                                                                                                 (15,600)            (15,004)          (14,879)         (14,490)          (14,558)
       less: fair value hedge accounting adjustment 1                                                                  (1,247)             (1,323)           (1,473)           (1,570)           (1,670)
       capital employed (continuing operations and discontinued operations)                                            31,706             37,127             34,667            36,367           34,289
       less: 	assets classified as held for disposal presented as ­discontinued operations                               (768)            (4,783)           (4,616)           (4,589)           (4,693)
       plus: 	liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal
               presented as discontinued operations                                                                        258             1,948              1,948             2,045             2,010
       capital employed (continuing operations)                                                                        31,195             34,291             31,999            33,823           31,606


             1 debt is generally reported with a value representing           value mainly due to changes in interest rates. accord-            for the calculation presented above. for further infor­
                approximately the amount to be repaid. however, for            ingly, we deduct these changes in market value in order           mation on fair value hedges see    note 31 in
                debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value          to end up with an amount of debt that approximately will            d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .
                hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market          be repaid, which we believe is a more meaningful figure




       (in millions of €)                                                                                           09/30/2012       06/30/2012           03/31/2012         12/31/2011       09/30/2011
       capital employed fiscal 2012
       total equity                                                                                                    31,424             32,417             32,250            34,059           32,271
       plus: long-term debt                                                                                            16,880             15,234             14,731            14,566           14,280
       plus: short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt                                                    3,826             5,236              4,799             2,841             3,660
       less: cash and cash equivalents                                                                                (10,891)             (8,963)           (8,424)           (8,977)         (12,468)
       less: current available-for-sale financial assets                                                                  (524)              (532)              (542)             (478)             (477)
       plus: post-employment benefits                                                                                    9,801             8,949              7,378             6,657             7,188
       less: sfs debt                                                                                                 (14,558)            (13,644)          (13,303)         (13,424)          (12,075)
       less: fair value hedge accounting adjustment 1                                                                  (1,670)             (1,638)           (1,474)           (1,544)           (1,470)
       capital employed (continuing operations and discontinued operations)                                            34,289             37,058             35,414            33,699           30,909
       less: 	assets classified as held for disposal presented as ­discontinued operations                            (4,693)             (4,695)           (4,893)           (4,968)           (4,666)
       plus: 	liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal
               presented as discontinued operations                                                                      2,010             1,919              1,679             1,663             1,749
       capital employed (continuing operations)                                                                        31,606             34,283             32,201            30,394           27,993


             1 debt is generally reported with a value representing           value mainly due to changes in interest rates. accord-            for the calculation presented above. for further infor­
                approximately the amount to be repaid. however, for            ingly, we deduct these changes in market value in order           mation on fair value hedges see    note 31 in
                debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value          to end up with an amount of debt that approximately will            d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .
                hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market          be repaid, which we believe is a more meaningful figure




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance                                  155   c.    combined ­management report
176
                                                                        156   c.1   business and ­economic environment                     207    c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                        173   c.2   financial performance system                           209    c.7   subsequent events
                                                                        179   c.3   results of operations                                  210    c.8   sustainability
                                                                        192   c.4   financial position                                     227    c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                        204   c.5   net assets position                                                                      ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                        ­associated material o

                                                                                                                                                                              year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                                 2013              2012
 income from continuing operations before interest after tax
 net income                                                                                                                                                                       4,409             4,282
 plus/less: other interest expenses/income, net                                                                                                                                    (455)             (471)
 less/plus: sfs other interest expenses/income 1                                                                                                                                    556               462
 plus:          interest expenses from post-employment benefits                                                                                                                     297               310
 less:          taxes on interest adjustments 2                                                                                                                                    (111)               (91)
      income before interest after tax                                                                                                                                            4,695             4,493
 less/plus: income/loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                                                                                          (197)              360
      income from continuing operations before interest after tax                                                                                                                 4,499             4,853
 return on capital employed (roce) (adjusted) (continuing and discontinued operations)
 (i) income before interest after tax                                                                                                                                             4,695             4,493
 (ii) average capital employed (continuing and discontinued operations) 3                                                                                                       34,831            34,274
      (i) / (ii) roce (adjusted) (continuing and discontinued operations)                                                                                                        13.5%             13.1%
 return on capital employed (roce) (adjusted) (continuing operations)
 (i) income from continuing operations before interest after tax                                                                                                                  4,499             4,853
 (ii) average capital employed (continuing operations) 3                                                                                                                        32,583            31,295
      (i) / (ii) roce (adjusted) (continuing operations)                                                                                                                         13.8%             15.5%


         1 sfs other interest income/expenses is included in other        2     effective tax rate for the determination of taxes on       3    average capital employed for a fiscal year is determined
            interest income/expenses, net. adding back sfs other                  interest adjustments is calculated by dividing income            as a five-point average in capital employed of the
            interest income/expenses in the numerator corresponds                 tax expenses through income from continuing                      respective quarters starting with the capital employed
            to the adjustment for sfs debt in the denominator.                    ­operations before income taxes, both as reported                as of september 30 of the previous fiscal year.
                                                                                  in    d.1 consolidated statements of income .




c.2.7.2 return on equity (roe) (after tax)
the following table reports the calculation of roe (after tax) of
sfs as defined under one siemens.



                                                                                                                                                                              year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                                 2013              2012
 calculation of income taxes of sfs
 profit of sfs (income before income taxes, ibit)                                                                                                                                   409               479
 less/plus: income/loss from investments ­accounted for using the equity method, net of sfs 1                                                                                        (85)            (168)
 less/plus: tax-free income components and others 2                                                                                                                                  (26)               57
 tax basis                                                                                                                                                                          298               368
 tax rate (flat)                                                                                                                                                                    30%               30%
      calculated income taxes of sfs                                                                                                                                                  89              110
 profit after tax of sfs
 profit of sfs (ibit)                                                                                                                                                               409               479
 less: calculated income taxes of sfs                                                                                                                                                (89)            (110)
      profit after tax of sfs                                                                                                                                                       320               368
 roe (after tax) of sfs
 (i) profit after tax of sfs                                                                                                                                                        320               368
 (ii) average allocated equity of sfs 3                                                                                                                                           1,874             1,681
      (i) / (ii) roe (after tax) of sfs                                                                                                                                          17.1%             21.9%


         1 for information on income (loss) from investments                     are reclassified from at equity to available-for-sale      3 average allocated equity of sfs for a fiscal year is deter-
            accounted for using the equity method, net of sfs,                   f­ inancial assets and are therefore not included in the       mined as a five-point average in allocated equity of sfs
            see c.3.3 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda                           (income) loss from investments accounted for using            of the respective quarters starting with the allocated
            (continuing operations) .                                             the equity method, net of sfs. such results are already       equity of sfs as of september 30 of the previous fiscal
                                                                                  taxed or generally tax free. others may also comprise         year.
         2 tax-free income components include forms of financing
                                                                                  an adjustment for material taxable income (loss) from
            which are generally exempted from income taxes.
                                                                                  investments accounted for using the equity method,
            others comprise result components related to the
                                                                                  net of sfs.
            (partial) sale/divestment of equity investments, which


                                                                                                                                            253    d.    consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                            357    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                              177
245    c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance             246       c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
            statement pursuant to section 289a of the                               ­german ­commercial code)
            ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant               250       c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
             ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.2.7.3 definitions of                                                      order backlog represents an indicator for the future revenues
      other financial measures                                                    of our company resulting from already recognized orders.
      we also use other financial measures in addition to the mea-                ­order backlog is calculated by adding the orders of the current
      sures described above, such as orders and order backlog for                  fiscal year to the balance of the order backlog as of the end of
      the assessment of our future revenue potential. we define and                the prior fiscal year and then subtracting the revenue recog-
      calculate orders and order backlog as follows:                               nized in the current fiscal year. if the amount of an order al-
                                                                                   ready recognized in the current or the previous fiscal years is
      under our policy for the recognition of orders, we generally                 modified or if an order from the current fiscal year is cancelled,
      recognize the total contract amount for an order when we en-                we adjust orders for the current quarter and also our order
      ter into a contract that we consider legally effective and com-             backlog accordingly, but do not retroactively adjust previously
      pulsory based on a number of different criteria. the contract               published orders. however, if an order from a previous fiscal
      amount is the agreed price or fee for that portion of the con-              year is cancelled, orders of the current quarter and, according-
      tract for which the delivery of goods and / or the provision of             ly, the current fiscal year are generally not adjusted; instead,
      services has been irrevocably agreed. future revenue from ser-              the existing order backlog is revised directly. aside from can-
      vice, maintenance and outsourcing contracts is recognized as                cellations, the order backlog is also subject to currency transla-
      orders in the amount of the total contract value only if there is           tion and portfolio effects.
      adequate assurance that the contract will remain in effect for
      its entire duration (e.g., due to high exit barriers for the cus-           there is no standard system for compiling and calculating or-
      tomer). orders are generally recognized immediately when the                ders and order backlog information that applies across compa-
      relevant contract is considered legally effective and compulso-             nies. accordingly, our orders and order backlog may not be
      ry. the only exceptions are orders with short overall contract              comparable with orders and order backlog measures reported
      terms. in this case, a separate reporting of orders would pro-              by other companies. we subject our orders and our order back-
      vide no significant additional information regarding our per-               log to internal documentation and review requirements. we
      formance. for orders of this type, the recognition of orders                may change our policies for recognizing orders and order back-
      thus occurs when the corresponding revenue is recognized.                   log in the future without previous notice.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance             155   c.    combined ­management report
178
                                                   156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                   173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                   179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                   192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                   204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

c.3  results of operations


c.3.1 results of siemens
the following discussion presents selected information for
siemens for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2013:

c.3.1.1 orders and revenue

       orders and revenue by region in fiscal year 2013 and 2012 (location of customer) (in millions of €)


                                                                                                                  europe, c.i.s.,2 africa, middle east

                                                                                                                          fy 2013

                                                                                                          orders          44,534                  fy 2012 change
                                                                                                                                                  38,536 16%

                                                                                                                          fy 2013

                                                                                                          revenue         39,874                  fy 2012 change
                                                                                                                                                  39,947 0%




                      americas

                              fy 2013                                                                                      asia, australia

            orders            22,219                    fy 2012 change
                                                        21,539 3%                                                                   fy 2013

                              fy 2013                                                                               orders          15,598                  fy 2012 change
                                                                                                                                                            15,863 (2)%

            revenue           20,916                    fy 2012 change
                                                        22,078 (5)%                                                                 fy 2013

                                                                                                                    revenue         15,092                  fy 2012 change
                                                                                                                                                            15,370 (2)%



       orders (location of customer)                                                                       revenue (location of customer)

                                       year ended              % change                   therein                                        year ended            % change                 therein
                                    september 30,                                                                                     september 30,
                                                                       ad-         cur-     port­-                                                                    ad-       cur-      port­-
 (in millions of €)               2013         2012     actual     justed1       rency      folio    (in millions of €)             2013        2012    actual    justed1     rency       folio
 europe, c.i.s.,2                                                                                    europe, c.i.s.,2
 africa, middle east          44,534       38,536        16%        16%          (1)%        1%      africa, middle east      39,874        39,947         0%        0%       (1)%         1%
  therein germany             11,743         9,871       19%        19%            0%        0%       therein germany         10,750        11,049       (3)%      (3)%            0%      0%
 americas                     22,219       21,539          3%           5%       (3)%        1%      americas                 20,916        22,078       (5)%      (4)%       (2)%         1%
  therein u.s.                14,635       14,727        (1)%       (1)%         (1)%        1%       therein u.s.            14,179        15,946     (11)%      (11)%       (1)%         1%
 asia, australia              15,598       15,863        (2)%           0%       (3)%        1%      asia, australia          15,092        15,370       (2)%        0%       (3)%         1%
  therein china                6,605         6,017       10%            8%         0%        2%       therein china             6,140         6,322      (3)%      (4)%            0%      1%
 siemens                      82,351       75,939          8%       10%          (2)%        1%      siemens                  75,882        77,395       (2)%      (1)%       (2)%         1%


       1   excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.    2    commonwealth of independent states.




                                                                                                                                253    d.     consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   179
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance            246    c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                           ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant              250    c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      orders for fiscal 2013 totaled €82.351 billion, an 8% increase                     as previously disclosed, siemens has decided that, subject to
      year-over-year, due primarily to higher volume from large                          certain limited exceptions, it will not enter into new contracts
      ­orders. in contrast, revenue came in at €75.882 billion, down                     with customers in iran and has issued group-wide policies es-
       2% from the prior year. this resulted in a book-to-bill ratio of                  tablishing the details of its general decision. in the fourth
       1.09 for siemens in fiscal 2013. on an organic basis, excluding                   quarter of fiscal 2012, as a result of an analysis of our contracts
       currency translation and portfolio effects, orders increased                      with iranian customers in particular with respect to expected
       10% and revenue came in 1% below the prior year.                                  payment defaults and force majeure events, we recorded ad-
                                                                                         justments affecting several line items in our consolidated
      the order backlog (defined as the sum of order backlogs of our                     statements of income, in particular revenue and cost of sales,
      sectors) was €100 billion as of september 30, 2013, up from                        recognized in prior periods from projects that were still per-
      €97 billion a year earlier, despite negative currency translation                  mitted to be provided under these policies. for additional in-
      effects of €4 billion.                                                             formation, see      c.9.3 risks .



      orders related to external customers in fiscal 2013 increased                       revenue related to external customers declined 2% com-
      8% overall, with results varying among the sectors. infrastruc-                     pared to fiscal 2012. a slight increase in infrastructure & cities
      ture & cities reported double-digit growth on large orders at                       was more than offset by moderate declines in energy and
      transportation & logistics, including a €3.0 billion contract                      ­industry due to weak investment sentiment through most of
      win for trains and maintenance in the u.k. orders for energy                        fiscal 2013 and continuing softness in industry ’s short-cycle
      were up 7%, driven by major contracts for wind power, and                           markets. healthcare revenue came in near the prior-year level.
      were level in healthcare. order intake declined 3% in industry                      on a global basis, emerging markets grew 1% and accounted
      due mainly to the challenging market environment for the sec-                       for €25.827 billion, or 34%, of total revenue in fiscal 2013.
      tor’s short-cycle businesses during most of fiscal 2013. on a
      global basis, orders from emerging markets, as these markets                       while revenue was stable year-over-year in the europe, c.i.s.,
      are defined by the international monetary fund, increased                          africa, middle east region, results within the region were
      10%, faster than orders overall, and accounted for €28.702 bil-                    mixed for the sectors. increases in infrastructure & cities and
      lion, or 35%, of total orders for fiscal 2013.                                     energy were offset by declines in industry and healthcare.
                                                                                         lower revenue in the americas was due primarily to energy,
      in the region europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east, orders in-                      which experienced an order gap for wind-farms in the u.s. in
      creased 16%, including double-digit increases in infrastruc-                       the latter half of calendar 2012 due to uncertainties regarding
      ture & cities and energy driven by the major contract wins                         production tax incentives. the sharp drop in orders subse-
      mentioned above. the higher volume of large orders in both                         quently affected fiscal 2013 revenue development. in the asia,
      sectors was also the primary factor in order growth in germa-                      australia region, revenue declined 2% on decreases in indus-
      ny. orders for healthcare and industry in the region came in                       try and energy that could not be offset by increases in the
      slightly below the level of fiscal 2012. within moderate order                     ­other two sectors.
      growth in the americas, a 10% increase in energy more than
      offset an 8% decline in industry. order intake in the asia, aus-
      tralia region showed a slight decrease in fiscal 2013.

             orders and revenue by quarter (in millions of €)

       orders                                                            revenue                                                             book-to-bill ratio
       q4 2013      21,011                                               q4 2013       21,168                                                0.99
       q3 2013      20,932                                               q3 2013       19,009                                                1.10
       q2 2013      21,235                                               q2 2013       17,779                                                1.19
       q1 2013      19,173                                               q1 2013       17,925                                                1.07
       q4 2012      21,251                                               q4 2012       21,444                                                0.99
       q3 2012      17,515                                               q3 2012       19,271                                                0.91
       q2 2012      17,597                                               q2 2012       19,033                                                0.92
       q1 2012      19,576                                               q1 2012       17,648                                                1.11




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance                   155    c.    combined ­management report
180
                                                         156    c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                         173    c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                         179    c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                         192    c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                         204    c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                           ­associated material o

c.3.1.2 consolidated statements of income                                                  income from continuing operations before income taxes
                                                                                           for fiscal 2013 declined to €5.843 billion from €6.636 billion a
                                                                                           year earlier.
                                            year ended september 30,       % change
 (in millions of €)                               2013           2012                      the largest factor in the decline was €1.276 billion in charges
 gross profit                                 20,829        21,925             (5)%        in the sectors for the “siemens 2014” program. these charges
  as percentage of revenue                     27.4%         28.3%                 –       resulted from measures taken in fiscal 2013 to reduce costs by
 research and development                                                                  improving regional footprints, adjusting capacity, and increas-
 ­expenses                                     (4,291)      (4,245)            (1)%
                                                                                           ing process efficiency. the charges are included in the follow-
  as percentage of revenue                       5.7%         5.5%                 –
                                                                                           ing functional costs:
 selling and general
 ­administrative expenses                    (11,286)      (11,043)            (2)%
  as percentage of revenue                     14.9%         14.3%                 –
 other operating income                           503            523           (4)%                                                                                 year ended
                                                                                                                                                                 september 30,
 other operating expenses                        (427)        (364)           (17)%          (in millions of €)                                                           2013
 income (loss) from invest-                                                                  cost of sales (and accordingly, gross profit)                               762
 ments accounted for using the
                                                                                             research and development expenses                                             37
 equity method, net                               510         (333)              n/a
                                                                                             selling and general administrative expenses                                 374
 interest income                                  948            939             1%
 interest expenses                               (789)        (760)            (4)%
  other financial income
 ­(expenses), net                                (154)            (5)     < (200)%
 income from continuing
                                                                                           in addition, charges of €104 million were included in other line
 ­operations before                                                                        items, predominantly in other operating expenses. for com-
  income taxes                                  5,843        6,636            (12)%        parison, in fiscal 2012, healthcare reported charges of €184
 income tax expenses                           (1,630)      (1,994)             18%        million under its “agenda 2013” initiative, which began a year
  as percentage of income                                                                 before the “siemens 2014” program. in fiscal 2013, the sector’s
   from continuing operations
   before income taxes                           28%             30%               –       charges under this initiative are included within “siemens
 income from continuing                                                                    2014” charges.
 ­operations                                    4,212        4,642             (9)%
 income (loss) from                                                                        a number of factors in addition to the “siemens 2014” charges
 ­discontinued ­operations,
                                                                                           reduced gross profit year-over-year. these included continuing
  net of income taxes                             197         (360)              n/a
 net income                                     4,409        4,282               3%
                                                                                           market challenges, such as lower capacity utilization in indus-
  net income attributable to
                                                                                           try, pricing pressure and a less favorable revenue mix in a
  non-controlling interests                       126            132               –       number of our businesses. in addition, both years included
  net income attributable to                                                              various charges and gains, including project charges in the
   shareholders of siemens ag                   4,284        4,151               3%        sectors energy and infrastructure & cities. the most relevant of
                                                                                           these charges are disclosed in         c.3.2 segment information

                                                                                           analysis . while the net amounts of these items were signifi-

                                                                                           cant at group level in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, there was only
                                                                                           a small change in the net amount year-over-year.




                                                                                                                      253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                      357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                 181
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance    246    c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                   ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant      250    c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      income from continuing operations before income taxes bene-                       this substantial positive swing was due mainly to osram, for
      fited from a sharply lower loss related to our stake in nokia                     which the prior-year amount included a negative catch-up ef-
      siemens networks holding b.v. (nsn), which narrowed to                            fect of €443 million (pretax), arising when we deemed it no
      €76 million from €741 million a year earlier. in addition, results                longer highly probable to complete our original plan to dispose
      related to nsn in fiscal 2013 benefited from a positive effect of                 of osram via an initial public offering. we subsequently com-
      €301 million stemming from a partial reversal of a fiscal 2009                    pleted the spin-off and listing of osram in the fourth quarter
      impairment of our stake in nsn, and a gain of €76 million from                    of fiscal 2013.
      the sale of the nsn stake in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013.
      these changes year-over-year are included in income (loss)                        in addition, the item other in fiscal 2012 included a burden
      from investments accounted for ­using the equity method.                          of €143 million (pretax) from a settlement related to greece.
                                                                                        for additional information on discontinued operations, see
      including the developments described above, income from                              note 2 in   d. 6 notes to consolidated financial statements .

      continuing operations before income taxes declined 12% year-
      over-year. due to a lower tax base and a lower effective tax rate                 as a result of the positive swing in income from discontinued
      compared to fiscal 2012, the decline in income from continu-                      operations, net income for siemens was 3% higher than in
      ing operations year-over-year came in at 9%.                                      the same period a year earlier. net income attributable to
                                                                                        shareholders of siemens ag increased to €4.284 billion, from
      income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                          €4.151 billion in fiscal 2012.
      in fiscal 2013 was €197 million, compared to a loss of €360 mil-
      lion in fiscal 2012, and was comprised of the following:                          basic earnings per share were €5.08 in fiscal 2013, up from
                                                                                        €4.74 in fiscal 2012, reflecting higher net income attributable
                                                                                        to shareholders of siemens ag, and a lower number of weight-
                                         year ended september 30,       % change        ed average shares outstanding due to share buybacks in fiscal
       (in millions of €)                     2013            2012                      2013. for additional information, see    note 35 in   d.6 notes

                                                                                        to consolidated financial statements .
       osram                                  277          (135)              n/a
       siemens it solutions
       and services                            71              40            78%
       other                                 (151)         (265)             43%




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance                  155    c.    combined ­management report
182
                                                        156    c.1   business and ­economic environment      207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                        173    c.2   financial performance system            209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                        179    c.3   results of operations                   210   c.8   sustainability
                                                        192    c.4   financial position                      227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                        204    c.5   net assets position                                                      ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                         ­associated material o

c.3.2 segment information analysis
c.3.2.1 energy

        sector

                                                                                 year ended september 30,                                      % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                                  2013              2012                actual              adjusted 1          currency            portfolio
 profit                                                                          1,955              1,901                    3%
 profit margin                                                                    7.3%               6.9%
 orders                                                                         28,797             26,930                    7%                      8%                (2)%                 1%
 total revenue                                                                  26,638             27,736                  (4)%                    (3)%                (2)%                 0%
  external revenue                                                              26,386             27,501                  (4)%
      therein:
    europe, c.i.s., 2 africa, middle east                                       14,346             14,261                    1%
   therein germany                                                               2,231              1,927                   16%
   americas                                                                      7,153              8,141              (12)%
    asia, australia                                                              4,886              5,098                  (4)%


        1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                 2   commonwealth of independent states.



energy reported a profit of €1.955 billion in fiscal 2013, up 3%                                  on a retrospective basis. the loss from the solar business was
year-over-year. the sector took €301 million in charges under                                     nearly unchanged year-over-year, at €255 million, compared to
the “siemens 2014” program, primarily for reducing its cost                                       €258 million a year earlier. in the current fiscal year, the loss
structure, adjusting capacity and improving its regional foot-                                    included impairments and costs associated with the ramp-
print. fossil power generation contributed lower earnings                                         down of the business of €181 million. in fiscal 2012, the loss
than a year earlier, but still accounted for most of the sector’s                                 included impairments of €150 million.
profit and was the highest profit performer among all siemens
divisions. profit at oil & gas increased year-over-year on sub-                                   revenue declined 4% compared to the prior-year period as
stantially lower charges related to iran. wind power’s profit re-                                 ­declines at fossil power generation and power transmission
mained on the same level as in fiscal 2012, despite €94 million                                    were only partially offset by increases at wind power and oil &
in charges related to turbine blades. power transmission cut                                       gas. on a regional basis, revenue rose in europe, c.i.s., africa,
its loss nearly in half compared to the prior year, due mainly to                                  middle east and declined in other regions. orders came in 7%
substantially lower charges mainly related to grid-connections                                     higher due mainly to large orders at wind power in europe,
to offshore wind-farms. these charges totaled €171 million in                                      c.i.s., africa, middle east. order intake was clearly higher in
fiscal 2013 compared to €570 million in fiscal 2012. the solar                                     the americas, while orders declined significantly in the asia,
business was reclassified from discontinued operations to con-                                     australia region. the book-to-bill ratio for energy was 1.08, and
tinuing operations in fiscal 2013 and is reported within energy                                    its order backlog was €54 billion at the end of the fiscal year.

        orders by business

                                                                                 year ended september 30,                                      % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                                  2013              2012                actual              adjusted 1          currency            portfolio
 fossil power generation                                                        10,682             11,116                  (4)%                    (2)%                (2)%                 0%
 wind power                                                                      6,593              4,932                   34%                    34%                 (2)%                 1%
 oil & gas                                                                       5,801              5,307                    9%                      9%                (2)%                 2%
 power transmission                                                              5,700              5,824                  (2)%                      0%                (2)%                 0%


        1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.




                                                                                                                                    253   d.      consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                    357   e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   183
245    c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance           246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
            statement pursuant to section 289a of the                         ­german ­commercial code)
            ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant             250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
             ­information and ­explanatory report

             revenue by business

                                                                                      year ended september 30,                              % change                                      therein
       (in millions of €)                                                               2013               2012           actual             adjusted 1             currency             portfolio
       fossil power generation                                                      10,239              11,161            (8)%                    (7)%                 (1)%                   0%
       wind power                                                                     5,174              5,066              2%                      4%                 (2)%                   1%
       oil & gas                                                                      5,152              5,115              1%                      0%                 (1)%                   2%
       power transmission                                                             6,167              6,593            (6)%                    (4)%                 (2)%                   0%


             1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.


             profit and profit margin by business

                                                                                                                                         profit                                    profit margin
                                                                                               year ended september 30,                                               year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                   2013                   2012            % change                         2013                     2012
       fossil power generation                                                            1,693                   1,933              (12)%                       16.5%                    17.3%
       wind power                                                                           306                    304                     1%                      5.9%                     6.0%
       oil & gas                                                                            433                    218                   99%                       8.4%                     4.3%
       power transmission                                                                  (156)                  (302)                  48%                     (2.5)%                   (4.6)%




      fossil power generation generated profit of €1.693 billion in                                    than compensated for a sharp decline in the americas. the
      fiscal 2013, significantly below €1.933 billion in fiscal 2012. the                              sharp decline in the americas was due to the onshore wind
      main drivers of the change were a decline in revenue in the                                      farm business, where the u.s is the largest national market for
      solutions business and a less favorable revenue mix particular-                                  wind power. new projects in the u.s. were halted or postponed
      ly in the products business. both years included burdens on                                      in the latter half of 2012 due to uncertainty regarding continu-
      profit. in the current year, the division recorded €129 million in                               ation of production tax incentives. the resulting order gap led
      “siemens 2014” charges. a year earlier, charges of €152 million                                  to a steep drop in fiscal 2013 revenue in the americas com-
      related to the olkiluoto project in finland were partly offset by                                pared to a year earlier. order intake was up 34% year-over-year,
      an €87 million gain on the division’s divestment of its joint                                    due mainly to a much higher volume from large orders, which
      venture stake in oao power machines. revenue was 8% lower                                        included several large offshore wind-farms in europe, c.i.s.,
      year-over-year, resulting mainly from declining order intake for                                 africa, middle east.
      turnkey projects. on a geographic basis, revenue declined sig-
      nificantly in the europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east region. order                              profit at oil & gas almost doubled year-over-year, to €433 mil-
      intake was down 4%, as a substantial decrease in asia, austra-                                   lion, due primarily to substantially lower charges related to ad-
      lia and a moderate decline in the region europe, c.i.s., africa,                                 justments for long-term construction and service contracts
      middle east were partially offset by a significant increase in                                   with customers in iran. in fiscal 2013, the division recorded
      the americas.                                                                                    €46 million in these charges on division profit in the first quar-
                                                                                                       ter as part of compliance with sanctions on iran, primarily on
      profit at wind power was €306 million in fiscal 2013, nearly                                     its oil and gas industries, enacted in october 2012. in fiscal
      unchanged from fiscal 2012. both fiscal years included burdens                                   2012, the division recorded charges totaling €275 million relat-
      on profit. in the current fiscal year, the division took the €94                                 ed to iran, mainly as a result of a revenue reduction of €282
      million in charges mentioned above, for inspecting and retro-                                    million. the division also took €34 million in charges for the
      fitting installed onshore turbine blades, primarily in the u.s.                                  “siemens 2014” program. revenue was slightly higher com-
      a year earlier, profit was held back by a €32 million provision                                  pared to the prior year on increases in europe, c.i.s., africa,
      related to a wind turbine component from an external supplier                                    middle east and the americas, partially offset by a decrease in
      and a charge of €20 million related to capacity adjustment.                                      asia, australia. order intake was up 9% as growth in asia, aus-
      revenue was slightly higher than in the prior year as increases                                  tralia and europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east more than offset a
      in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east and asia, australia more                                  decline in the americas.




       92   a.     to our shareholders
      117   b.     corporate ­governance                                155   c.    combined ­management report
184
                                                                        156   c.1   business and ­economic environment             207    c.6     overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                        173   c.2   financial performance system                   209    c.7     subsequent events
                                                                        179   c.3   results of operations                          210    c.8     sustainability
                                                                        192   c.4   financial position                             227    c.9     r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                        204   c.5   net assets position                                                                ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                  ­associated material o

power transmission sharply reduced its loss compared to fis-                                      and orders booked in prior periods with significant pricing
cal 2012, to €156 million, despite €129 million in charges for                                    pressure. operational challenges strongly cut back profit in
the “siemens 2014” program. the major factor in the change                                        the high-voltage products business. revenue for the division
was lower project charges related mainly to grid connections                                      was down 6% year-over-year due to declines in europe, c.i.s.,
to offshore wind-farms, which fell to €171 million from €570                                      africa, middle east and asia, australia. orders came in 2% low-
million a year earlier. these charges were due to project de-                                     er compared to the prior year, due in part to more selective
lays resulting from regulatory complexity and the projects’                                       order intake. on a regional basis, a decline in europe, c.i.s.,
challenging marine environment, which required revised esti-                                      africa, middle east was partially offset by increases in other
mates of resources and personnel. profit development was                                          regions. the division expects continuing challenges in com-
held back by margin compression related to these projects                                         ing quarters.



c.3.2.2 healthcare

        sector

                                                                                 year ended september 30,                                      % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                                  2013              2012                actual              adjusted 1          currency            portfolio
 profit                                                                          2,048              1,815                   13%
 profit margin                                                                  15.0%               13.3%
 orders                                                                         13,950             13,806                    1%                      4%                (3)%                 0%
 total revenue                                                                  13,621             13,642                    0%                      2%                (3)%                 0%
  external revenue                                                              13,598             13,600                    0%
      therein:
    europe, c.i.s., 2 africa, middle east                                        4,544              4,593                  (1)%
   therein germany                                                                   995            1,056                  (6)%
   americas                                                                      5,631              5,692                  (1)%
    asia, australia                                                              3,422              3,315                    3%


        1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                 2   commonwealth of independent states.



the healthcare sector delivered €2.048 billion in profit in fis-                                  charges fell to €35 million from €80 million in fiscal 2012. pur-
cal 2013, up significantly from the prior-year level with all busi-                               chase price allocation (ppa) effects related to past acquisitions
nesses contributing to profit growth. results for the year were                                   at diagnostics were €169 million in fiscal 2013. a year earlier,
positively influenced by lower charges associated with the sec-                                   diagnostics recorded €173 million in ppa effects.
tor’s “agenda 2013” initiative, which declined to €84 million
from €184 million in fiscal 2012. healthcare intends to main-                                     revenue for healthcare in fiscal 2013 was nearly unchanged
tain the achievements of the initiative going forward, includ-                                    compared to fiscal 2012, while orders increased slightly year-
ing improvements in cost position and competitiveness. in                                         over-year. on an organic basis, both revenue and orders were
particular, expenses for research and development and selling                                     up. on a geographic basis, revenue growth in asia, australia
and general administrative expenses both declined compared                                        was offset by declines in the other regions. asia, australia and
to fiscal 2012. effective january 1, 2013, results for healthcare                                 the americas drove order growth due to increases in china and
included negative effects on profit from an excise tax on medi-                                   the u.s. the book-to-bill ratio was 1.02, and healthcare’s order
cal devices which was introduced in the u.s., affecting most                                      backlog was €7 billion at the end of fiscal 2013.
businesses in the sector.
                                                                                                  revenue at diagnostics declined 1% in fiscal 2013, from €3.969
profit at diagnostics came in at €350 million compared to €314                                    billion to €3.942 billion, and showed the same development
million a year earlier. profit development followed the pattern                                   as the sector with regard to the regions. on comparable basis
of the sector with regard to “agenda 2013,” including lower                                       ­revenue was up 2%.
charges and improvements in cost position. in particular the




                                                                                                                                    253   d.      consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                    357   e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   185
245    c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance           246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
            statement pursuant to section 289a of the                         ­german ­commercial code)
            ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant             250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
             ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.3.2.3 industry

              sector

                                                                                       year ended september 30,                                  % change                                     therein
       (in millions of €)                                                                  2013             2012                 actual           adjusted 1            currency             portfolio
       profit                                                                          1,478              2,448              (40)%
       profit margin                                                                    8.0%              12.6%
       orders                                                                        18,417              18,962                  (3)%                 (3)%                 (1)%                   1%
       total revenue                                                                 18,586              19,409                  (4)%                 (4)%                 (1)%                   1%
        external revenue                                                             16,943              17,772                  (5)%
            therein:
          europe, c.i.s., 2 africa, middle east                                        9,261              9,644                  (4)%
         therein germany                                                               4,198              4,464                  (6)%
         americas                                                                      3,290              3,484                  (6)%
          asia, australia                                                              4,393              4,644                  (5)%


              1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                 2   commonwealth of independent states.



      in fiscal 2013, profit at industry fell sharply to €1.478 billion,                                signs of stabilizing towards the end of the period, revenue de-
      impacted by €424 million in charges for the “siemens 2014”                                        clined moderately year-over-year on broad-based decreases at
      program primarily for improving the sector’s global footprint                                     both divisions and the metals technologies business. orders
      and reducing costs associated with administrative processes.                                      for the sector declined 3% year-over-year, as reported growth
      profit development was held back also by lower revenue and a                                      on larger orders at the end of the year was more than offset by
      less favorable business mix, due mainly to continuing softness                                    a low order intake through most of fiscal 2013.
      in the sector’s short-cycle businesses. in addition, the sector
      took €100 million in charges for two large projects at its metals                                 on a geographic basis, industry ’s orders and revenue both
      technologies business.                                                                            showed a broad-based decline in all three reporting regions.
                                                                                                        the book-to-bill ratio was 0.99, and industry ’s order backlog
      the market environment for industry through most of fiscal                                        declined to €10 billion at the end of fiscal 2013.
      2013 was clearly more challenging than a year earlier. despite

              orders by business

                                                                                       year ended september 30,                                  % change                                     therein
       (in millions of €)                                                                  2013             2012                 actual           adjusted 1            currency             portfolio
       industry automation                                                             8,143              8,524                  (4)%                 (5)%                 (1)%                   2%
       drive technologies                                                              9,024              9,395                  (4)%                 (3)%                 (1)%                   0%


              1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.


              revenue by business

                                                                                       year ended september 30,                                  % change                                     therein
       (in millions of €)                                                                  2013             2012                 actual           adjusted 1            currency             portfolio
       industry automation                                                             8,194              8,463                  (3)%                 (3)%                 (1)%                   1%
       drive technologies                                                              9,208              9,640                  (4)%                 (4)%                 (1)%                   0%


              1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.




       92    a.   to our shareholders
      117    b.   corporate ­governance                                  155   c.    combined ­management report
186
                                                                         156   c.1   business and ­economic environment                   207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                         173   c.2   financial performance system                         209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                                         179   c.3   results of operations                                210   c.8   sustainability
                                                                         192   c.4   financial position                                   227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                         204   c.5   net assets position                                                                   ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                      ­associated material o

        profit and profit margin by business

                                                                                                                                          profit                                   profit margin
                                                                                            year ended september 30,                                                  year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                     2013                    2012                % change                         2013                   2012
 industry automation                                                                  1,038                    1,316                  (21)%                       12.7%                  15.6%
 drive technologies                                                                     527                     970                   (46)%                        5.7%                  10.1%




profit at industry automation declined substantially year-                                          from deferred revenue adjustments and inventory step-ups re-
over year, due in part to €114 million in charges for “siemens                                      lated to lms totaled an additional €43 million. both fiscal years
2014.” continuing softness in the division’s short-cycle mar-                                       under review included ppa effects from the acquisition of ugs
kets led to lower revenue year-over-year and reduced capacity                                       corp., acquired in fiscal 2007. these effects were €147 million
utilization. the division took measures to improve its busi-                                        in fiscal 2013 and €149 million a year earlier.
ness mix via a ramp-down of certain low-margin activities, in-
cluding the solar inverter business. in contrast, the division’s                                    profit at drive technologies in fiscal 2013 came in at €527 mil-
industrial it and software business contributed revenue and                                         lion, a sharp decline from the prior-year level. the main impact
order growth year-over-year, due in part to recent acquisitions                                     was €243 million in charges for “siemens 2014.” profit develop-
including lms. revenue for the division overall came in 3%                                          ment also included a revenue-driven decline due to challeng-
below the prior year, on declines in the americas and europe,                                       ing market conditions for the division’s higher-margin
c.i.s., africa, middle east. the division’s moderate decline in                                     short-cycle businesses and its offerings for renewable energy.
orders year-over-year was evident in all three reporting re-                                        on a geographic basis, both orders and revenue declined mod-
gions, led by a clear decrease in the americas.                                                     erately on lower volume in all three reporting regions, particu-
                                                                                                    larly including asia, australia which showed a clear decline
in addition, the division took ppa effects related to long-lived                                    year-over-year.
assets of lms, which totaled €33 million for the year. effects

c.3.2.4 infrastructure & cities

        sector

                                                                                 year ended september 30,                                       % change                                 therein
 (in millions of €)                                                                  2013               2012               actual               adjusted 1          currency            portfolio
 profit                                                                              306              1,102            (72)%
 profit margin                                                                    1.7%                 6.3%
 orders                                                                         21,894               17,150                 28%                     28%                 (3)%                 2%
 total revenue                                                                  17,879               17,585                  2%                       1%                (1)%                 2%
  external revenue                                                              17,128               16,731                  2%
      therein:
    europe, c.i.s., 2 africa, middle east                                       10,482               10,121                  4%
   therein germany                                                               2,633                2,880                (9)%
   americas                                                                      4,283                4,344                (1)%
    asia, australia                                                              2,363                2,267                  4%


        1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.                 2   commonwealth of independent states.



profit at infrastructure & cities came in at €306 million in fis-                                   building technologies, which otherwise showed strong profit
cal 2013, down from €1.102 billion a year earlier. the biggest                                      performances. transportation & logistics took the largest part
factor in this decline year-over-year was €468 million in                                           of the sector’s “siemens 2014” charges. furthermore, its profit
“siemens 2014” charges, taken primarily to improve the sec-                                         was impacted by project charges of €270 million related to
tor’s cost efficiency and regional footprint. these charges led                                     high-speed trains. in the prior fiscal year, charges related to
to declines in profit at power grid solutions & products and                                        these matters were sharply lower at €86 million. transaction




                                                                                                                                    253    d.      consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                    357    e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                    187
245    c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance           246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
            statement pursuant to section 289a of the                         ­german ­commercial code)
            ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant             250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
             ­information and ­explanatory report

      and integration costs related to its invensys rail acquisition,                                  tics, which recorded a sharply higher volume from major or-
      which closed in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, further im-                                    ders compared to the prior fiscal year including €3.0 billion for
      pacted the business’ profit year-over-year. as a result of the                                   trains and maintenance in the u.k. orders for power grid solu-
      above mentioned factors, transportation & logistics posted a                                     tions & products were also higher year-over-year, while orders
      loss in the current fiscal year, compared to a profit in the prior                               for building technologies came in near the prior-year level. on
      fiscal year.                                                                                     a regional basis, revenue rose in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle
                                                                                                       east and in asia, australia. regional order development was
      revenue was up 2% compared to the prior fiscal year, as in-                                      similar but even more pronounced. the large contract awards
      creases at transportation & logistics and power grid solu-                                       mentioned above drove growth in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle
      tions & products more than offset a slight decline at building                                   east. orders in asia, australia were also up substantially. on a
      technologies. orders for the sector rose substantially year-                                     book-to-bill ratio of 1.22, infrastructure & cities’ order backlog
      over-year. this growth was driven by transportation & logis-                                     rose to €29 billion at the end of fiscal 2013.

             orders by business

                                                                                      year ended september 30,                              % change                                      therein
       (in millions of €)                                                               2013                2012          actual             adjusted 1             currency             portfolio
       transportation & logistics                                                    10,040              5,382             87%                     85%                 (5)%                   6%
       power grid solutions & products                                                6,392              6,275              2%                      4%                 (2)%                   0%
       building technologies                                                          5,769              5,809            (1)%                      0%                 (1)%                   0%


             1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.


             revenue by business

                                                                                      year ended september 30,                              % change                                      therein
       (in millions of €)                                                               2013                2012          actual             adjusted 1             currency             portfolio
       transportation & logistics                                                     6,318              5,969              6%                      2%                 (2)%                   6%
       power grid solutions & products                                                6,102              6,068              1%                      3%                 (2)%                   0%
       building technologies                                                          5,754              5,820            (1)%                      0%                 (1)%                   0%


             1 excluding currency translation and portfolio effects.


             profit and profit margin by business

                                                                                                                                         profit                                    profit margin
                                                                                               year ended september 30,                                               year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                   2013                   2012            % change                         2013                     2012
       transportation & logistics                                                          (448)                   236                     n/a                   (7.1)%                     4.0%
       power grid solutions & products                                                      403                    457               (12)%                         6.6%                     7.5%
       building technologies                                                                351                    379                   (7)%                      6.1%                     6.5%




      transportation & logistics posted a loss of €448 million in                                      tion & logistics intends to sell. profit development for the fiscal
      the current fiscal year, compared to profit of €236 million a                                    year was also held back by low margins associated with large
      year earlier. the two main factors for the change were sharply                                   long-term contracts. the acquisition of invensys rail during
      higher project charges year-over-year, which included the                                        the third quarter of fiscal 2013 resulted in €76 million in trans-
      above mentioned €270 million from delays for receiving certifi-                                  action and integration costs for the fiscal year and ppa effects
      cation for new high-speed trains in fiscal 2013, up from €86                                     of €23 million. revenue for the business rose 6% while orders
      million for these matters in the prior fiscal year, and €267 mil-                                were up 87%, due primarily to a sharply higher volume from
      lion in charges related to “siemens 2014.” the latter charges                                    major orders year-over-year, including the above-mentioned
      include a goodwill impairment of €46 million on the airport                                      €3.0 billion order in the u.k. both revenue and order growth
      logistics and postal automation business which transporta-                                       benefited from the acquisition of invensys rail.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance                                  155   c.    combined ­management report
188
                                                                        156   c.1   business and ­economic environment             207    c.6     overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                        173   c.2   financial performance system                   209    c.7     subsequent events
                                                                        179   c.3   results of operations                          210    c.8     sustainability
                                                                        192   c.4   financial position                             227    c.9     r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                        204   c.5   net assets position                                                                ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                  ­associated material o

profit at power grid solutions & products came in at €403 mil-                             profit (defined as income before income taxes) at sfs came in
lion, down from €457 million a year earlier. the decline was                               at €409 million, compared to €479 million in the prior-year
due to €97 million in “siemens 2014” charges. revenue and or-                              ­period, which benefited from a €78 million gain on the sale of
ders increased slightly year-over-year. on a regional basis, rev-                           a portion of sfs’s stake in bangalore international airport limit-
enue was higher in asia, australia and the americas and de-                                 ed. sfs continued to successfully execute its growth strategy
clined slightly in europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east. orders rose                        and higher total assets year-over-year helped generate a higher
in asia, australia and europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east, only                           interest result compared to the prior-year. the current period
partly offset by a decline in the americas.                                                was affected by burdens including a €52 million impairment of
                                                                                           sfs’s equity stake in a power plant project in the u.s.
profit at building technology declined to €351 million in fiscal
2013, from €379 million a year earlier as the division absorbed                            c.3.2.7 reconciliation to
€100 million in “siemens 2014” charges in the current period.                              consolidated financial statements
selective order intake led to a more favorable business mix                                reconciliation to consolidated financial statements includes
compared to the prior fiscal year, particularly including build-                           centrally managed portfolio activities, siemens real estate
ing technologies’ higher-margin product and service business.                              (sre) and various categories of items which are not allocated
it also led to a slight decline in revenue and orders year-over-                           to the sectors and to sfs because the company ’s management
year. on a regional basis, lower volume was due mainly to the                              has determined that such items are not indicative of the sec-
americas.                                                                                  tors’ and sfs’ respective performance.

c.3.2.5 equity investments                                                                 centrally managed portfolio activities
in fiscal 2013, equity investments recorded a profit of €396                               centrally managed portfolio activities reported a loss of €12
million, compared to a loss of €549 million a year earlier. this                           million in fiscal 2013, compared to a loss of €29 million in fiscal
improvement year-over-year was due mainly to a sharply lower                               2012.
loss related to our share in nsn, which declined to €76 million
from €741 million a year earlier. in addition, results related to                          siemens real estate (sre)
nsn in fiscal 2013 benefited from a positive effect of €301 mil-                           income before income taxes at sre was €171 million in fiscal
lion stemming from a partial reversal of a fiscal 2009 impair-                             2013, compared to €115 million in fiscal 2012. this increase
ment of our stake in nsn, and a gain of €76 million from the                               was due in part to higher income related to the disposal of real
sale of the nsn stake in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. the                            estate.
equity investment loss related to our share in en widened to
€96 million in fiscal 2013 from a loss of €23 million a year earli-                        corporate items and pensions
er. the loss in the current period was due largely to additions                            corporate items and pensions reported a loss of €839 million
to siemens’ net investment in en, which resulted in the recog-                             in fiscal 2013 compared to a loss of €668 million in fiscal 2012.
nition of previously unrecognized losses. profit at equity invest-                         the loss at corporate items was €419 million, compared to a
ments in both fiscal years included equity investment income                               loss of €261 million in fiscal 2012 which included positive
related to our stake in bsh.                                                               ­effects related to legal and regulatory matters. centrally car-
                                                                                            ried pension expense totaled €420 million in fiscal 2013, com-
c.3.2.6 financial services (sfs)                                                            pared to €407 million in fiscal 2012.

                                                                                           eliminations, corporate treasury
                                            year ended september 30,       % change        and other reconciling items
 (in millions of €)                               2013           2012                      income before income taxes from eliminations, corporate
 income before income taxes                       409            479          (14)%        treasury and other reconciling items was a negative €70 mil-
 total assets                                 18,661        17,405               7%        lion in fiscal 2013, compared to a positive €23 million in the
                                                                                           same period a year earlier. the change year-over-year included
                                                                                           lower results from corporate treasury activities, due mainly to
                                                                                           lower interest income from liquidity compared to the prior-year
                                                                                           period.




                                                                                                                 253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                 357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                 189
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance    246    c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                   ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant      250    c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.3.3 reconciliation to adjusted ebitda (continuing operations)
      the following table gives additional information on topics in-                                        ifrs is net income as reported in our “consolidated statements
      cluded in profit and income before income taxes and provides                                          of income.” for further information regarding adjusted ebit
      a reconciliation to adjusted ebitda based on continuing opera-                                        and adjusted ebitda, please see        c.12 notes and forward-

      tions. we report adjusted ebit and adjusted ebitda as a perfor-                                       looking statements .

      mance measure. the closest comparable gaap figure under

              for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012

                                                                                                                                                            profit1                   income (loss) from
                                                                                                                                                                                 investments accounted
                                                                                                                                                                                     for using the equity
                                                                                                                                                                                            method, net2
       (in millions of €)                                                                                                                 2013               2012                2013                2012
       sectors
            energy sector                                                                                                           1,955                  1,901                  (39)                    22
         therein:           fossil power generation                                                                                 1,693                  1,933                   32                     41
                            wind power                                                                                                    306                304                    (8)                     6
                            oil & gas                                                                                                     433                218                     –                      –
                            power transmission                                                                                        (156)                 (302)                  20                     25
            healthcare sector                                                                                                       2,048                  1,815                     8                      8
         therein:           diagnostics                                                                                                   350                314                     –                      –
            industry sector                                                                                                         1,478                  2,448                   (4)                    11
         therein:           industry automation                                                                                     1,038                  1,316                     –                      1
                            drive technologies                                                                                            527                970                    (5)                   10
            infrastructure & cities sector                                                                                                306              1,102                   26                     25
         therein:           transportation & logistics                                                                                (448)                  236                   18                     15
                            power grid solutions & products                                                                               403                457                     8                      9
                            building technologies                                                                                         351                379                     –                      1
       total sectors                                                                                                                5,788                  7,266                  (10)                    66
            equity investments                                                                                                            396               (549)                372                (568)
            financial services (sfs)                                                                                                      409                479                   85                168
       reconciliation to consolidated financial statements
          centrally managed portfolio activities                                                                                          (12)                (29)                 69                       7
          siemens real estate (sre)                                                                                                       171                115                     –                      –
          corporate items and pensions                                                                                                (839)                 (668)                    –                      –
          eliminations, corporate treasury and other reconciling items                                                                    (70)                 23                   (6)                   (5)
       siemens                                                                                                                      5,843                  6,636                 510                (333)


              1 profit of the sectors as well as of equity investments and         siemens is income from continuing operations before         3 includes impairment of non-current available-for-sale
                  centrally managed portfolio activities is earnings before          income taxes. for a reconciliation of income from              financial assets. for siemens, financial income (ex-
                  financing interest, certain pension costs and income               continuing operations before income taxes to net in-           penses), net comprises interest income, interest ex-
                  taxes. certain other items not considered performance              come see     d.1 consolidated statements of income .           penses and other financial income (expenses), net as
                  indicative by management may be excluded. profit of                                                                               reported in the consolidated statements of income.
                                                                                2 includes impairments and reversals of impairments of
                  sfs and sre is income before income taxes. profit of
                                                                                   investments accounted for using the equity method.




       92    a.   to our shareholders
      117    b.   corporate ­governance                                   155   c.      combined ­management report
190
                                                                          156   c.1     business and ­economic environment                   207    c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                          173   c.2     financial performance system                         209    c.7   subsequent events
                                                                          179   c.3     results of operations                                210    c.8   sustainability
                                                                          192   c.4     financial position                                   227    c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                          204   c.5     net assets position                                                                    ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                          ­associated material o

            financial income                   adjusted ebit4                     amortization5            depreciation and                    adjusted ebitda           adjusted ebitda margin
             (expenses), net3                                                                       impairments of property,
                                                                                                       plant and equipment
                                                                                                              and goodwill6
         2013            2012           2013              2012           2013             2012           2013             2012           2013                2012            2013         2012


         (27)             44          2,022           1,835              132                97           478              537           2,631              2,470            9.9%         8.9%
         (13)             67          1,674           1,825               19                21           143              142           1,835              1,988
           (6)             (5)           320              303             32                27           103              100            454                 430
           (3)             (4)           436              222             49                38             79              71            564                 330
         (10)            (20)           (167)          (308)              13                11           114              109             (39)              (187)
         (18)               2         2,059           1,804              314              377            323              349           2,696              2,530          19.8%         18.5%
         (27)               9            377              305            196              232            211              226            784                 763
         (17)            (14)         1,499           2,452              303              253            354              300           2,156              3,005          11.6%         15.5%
           (4)             (7)        1,041           1,323              240              195            123              114           1,404              1,631
         (11)              (6)           542              966             56                48           219              172            817               1,187
            2             29             278          1,048              154              112            226              165            657               1,324            3.7%         7.5%
           (7)           (16)           (459)             236             39                13             99              46           (321)                296
           (6)             (4)           401              452             57                39             78              71            536                 562
            –              (2)           352              381             58                60             46              47            456                 488
         (60)             61          5,858           7,139              902              839          1,381           1,350            8,141              9,329
            7               7             17               12                 –              –               –               –                17               12
         389             385             (64)             (73)                5              7           225              264            166                 197


           (2)              –            (80)             (36)                2              4               2               2            (76)                (31)
        (110)           (112)            281              227                 1              2           313              325            595                 553
        (249)           (305)           (590)          (363)              17                16             74              51           (499)               (296)
          30             137             (94)          (109)                  –              –            (34)            (41)          (128)               (151)
            5            173          5,328           6,796              927              867          1,960           1,950            8,215              9,613


4 adjusted ebit is income from continuing operations before     5 amortization and impairments, net of reversals, of intangi-   6 depreciation and impairments of property, plant and
   income taxes less financial income (expenses), net and           ble assets other than goodwill.                                  equipment, net of reversals. includes impairments of
   income (loss) from investments accounted for using the                                                                            goodwill of €70 million in the current period and €85
   equity method, net.                                                                                                               million in the prior-year period, respectively.




                                                                                                                                  253    d.        consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                  357    e.        additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                  191
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance          246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                        ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant            250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.4  financial position


      c.4.1 principles and objectives                                              c.4.1.2 cash management
      of financial management                                                      cash management comprises the management of bank part-
                                                                                   ner relationships and bank accounts as well as the execution
      siemens is committed to a strong financial profile, which pro-               of payments, including the administration of cash pools, on a
      vides the financial flexibility to achieve growth and portfolio              global level. siemens strives to raise efficiency and transparen-
      optimization goals largely independent of capital market con-                cy through a high level of standardization and continuous
      ditions.                                                                     ­advancement of payment processes. where permissible, the
                                                                                    execution of intercompany and third party payments is effect-
      financial management at siemens is executed according to ap-                  ed centrally through group-wide tools with central controls to
      plicable laws and internal guidelines and regulations. it in-                 ensure compliance with internal and external guidelines and
      cludes the following activities:                                              requirements. to ensure efficient management of siemens’
                                                                                    funds, corporate treasury has established a central cash man-
      c.4.1.1 liquidity management                                                  agement approach: to the extent legally and economically fea-
      our principal source of financing is cash inflows from operat-                sible, funds are pooled and managed centrally by corporate
      ing activities. corporate treasury generally manages cash and                 treasury. conversely, funding needs within siemens are cov-
      cash equivalents for siemens and has primary responsibility                   ered centrally by corporate treasury via intercompany current
      for raising funds in the capital markets for siemens through                  accounts and / or loans where legally and economically feasible.
      various debt products, with the exception of countries with
      conflicting capital market controls. the relevant consolidated               c.4.1.3 financial risk management
      subsidiaries in these countries obtain financing primarily from              investments of cash and cash equivalents are subject to credit
      local banks. siemens follows a prudent borrowing policy that                 requirements and counterparty limits. corporate treasury
      is aimed towards a balanced financing portfolio, a diversified               pools and centrally manages siemens’ interest rate, certain
      maturity profile and a comfortable liquidity cushion. as of sep-             commodity and currency risk exposures and uses financial de-
      tember 30, 2013, siemens held €9.190 billion in cash and cash                rivative instruments in transactions with external financial in-
      equivalents, mainly in euro, which were predominantly man-                   stitutions to offset such concentrated exposures. especially
      aged by corporate treasury. especially since the beginning                   since the beginning of the global financial market crisis,
      of the global financial markets crisis, siemens monitors fund-               siemens monitors counterparty risk in its financial assets and
      ing options available in the capital markets, trends in the avail-           financial derivative instruments very closely. for more detailed
      ability of funds and the cost of such funding very closely in or-            information about financial risk management at siemens, see
      der to evaluate possible strategies regarding its financial and                 note 32 in    d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .

      risk profile.
                                                                                   c.4.1.4 management
      corporate treasury enters into reverse repurchase agreements                                    ­ enefits
                                                                                   of post-employment b
      with financial institutions with investment grade credit rat-                our funding policy for post-employment-benefits is part of our
      ings. siemens holds securities as collateral under these agree-              overall commitment to sound financial management, which
      ments via a third party (euroclear) and is permitted to sell or              includes a continuous analysis of the structure of our pension
      re-pledge the securities. the extent to which siemens engages                liabilities. for more detailed information about our pension
      in transactions involving reverse repurchase agreements de-                  plan funding, see     c.4.6.4 post-employment benefits .

      pends on its liquidity management needs and the availability
      of cash and cash equivalents which varies from time to time.                 c.4.1.5 capital structure management
      for further information on reverse purchase agreements, see                  to effectively manage its capital structure, we seek to maintain
         note 30 in   d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .             ready access to the capital markets through various debt prod-
                                                                                   ucts and to preserve its ability to repay and service its debt ob-
                                                                                   ligations over time. for further information on capital struc-
                                                                                   ture management, see       c.4.2 capital structure .




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
192
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

c.4.2 capital structure
                                                                                                                                                                                  september 30,
as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 our capital structure was as                                   (in millions of €)                                                        2013             2012
follows:                                                                                         short-term debt and current maturities
                                                                                                 of long-term debt 1                                                     1,944           3,826
                                                                                                 plus: long-term debt 1                                                18,509           16,880
                                                                                                 less: cash and cash equivalents                                        (9,190)       (10,891)
                                                          september 30,        % change
                                                                                                 less: current available-for-sale financial assets                        (601)            (524)
 (in millions of €)                               2013               2012
                                                                                                 net debt                                                              10,663            9,292
 total equity attributable to
 shareholders of siemens ag                   28,111           30,855              (9)%          less: sfs debt 2                                                     (15,600)        (14,558)
 as percentage of total capital                  58%                 60%                         plus: post-employment benefits 3                                        9,265           9,801
  short-term debt and current                                                                   plus: credit guarantees                                                   622              326
   maturities of long-term debt                 1,944           3,826                            less: 50% nominal amount hybrid bond 4                                   (899)            (920)
  long-term debt                              18,509           16,880                            less: fair value hedge accounting adjustment 5                         (1,247)         (1,670)
 total debt                                   20,453           20,707              (1)%          adjusted industrial net debt                                            2,805           2,271
 as percentage of total capital                  42%                 40%
 total capital                                                                                   adjusted ebitda (continuing operations)                                 8,215           9,613
 (total equity and total debt)                48,564           51,561              (6)%

                                                                                                 adjusted industrial net debt /adjusted ebitda
                                                                                                 (continuing operations)                                                  0.34             0.24


for information on changes in equity and debt, see                               c.5 net               1 the item short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as well as the
                                                                                                          item long-term debt included in total fair value hedge accounting adjustments of
assets position .
                                                                                                          €1,247 million and €1,670 million for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2013 and
                                                                                                          2012, respectively.
                                                                                                       2 the adjustment considers that both moody’s and s&p view sfs as a captive finance
we believe that sustainable revenue and profit development                                                company. these rating agencies generally recognize and accept higher levels
can be achieved only on the basis of a healthy capital struc-                                             of debt attributable to captive finance subsidiaries in determining credit ratings.
                                                                                                          following this concept, we exclude sfs debt in order to derive an adjusted industrial
ture. a key consideration of our capital structure management                                             net debt which is not affected by sfs’s financing activities.
is to maintain ready access to the capital markets through                                             3 to reflect siemens’ total pension liability, adjusted industrial net debt includes line
                                                                                                          item post-employment benefits as presented in          d.3 consolidated statements
­various debt products and to preserve our ability to repay and                                           of financial position .

 service our debt obligations over time. siemens set a capital                                         4 the adjustment for our hybrid bond considers the calculation of this financial
                                                                                                          ratio applied by rating agencies to classify 50% of our hybrid bond as equity and
 structure target range of 0.5 – 1.0. the ratio is defined as the                                         50% as debt. this assignment reflects the characteristics of our hybrid bond such
 item adjusted industrial net debt divided by the item adjusted                                           as a long maturity date and subordination to all senior and debt obligations.
                                                                                                       5 debt is generally reported with a value representing approximately the amount
 ebitda (continuing operations). this financial performance                                               to be repaid. however, for debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value
 measure indicates the approximate amount of time in years                                                hedges), this amount is adjusted by changes in market value mainly due to changes
                                                                                                          in interest rates. accordingly, we deduct these changes in market value in order to
 that would be needed to pay off adjusted industrial net debt                                             end up with an amount of debt that approximately will be repaid. we believe this
                                                                                                          is a more meaningful figure for the calculation presented above. for further in­for­
 through continuing income, without taking into account inter-                                            mation on fair value hedges see       note 31 in    d.6 notes to consolidated
 est, taxes, depreciation and amortization.                                                               financial statements .




we calculate the item adjusted industrial net debt as set forth
in the table below. for further information on the calculation
of adjusted ebitda (continuing operations), see        c.3.3 recon-

ciliation to adjusted ebitda (continuing operations) .




                                                                                                                                253    d.     consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                    193
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance        246    c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                       ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant          250    c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      sfs’ capital structure differs from the capital structure for our              in fiscal 2014, we may again fulfill commitments for share-
      industrial business, because sfs’ business is capital-intensive                based compensation through treasury shares. for additional
      and requires larger amounts of debt to finance its operations,                 information with respect to treasury shares, see    note 33 in

      in particular to finance its asset growth strategy. the following                 d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .

      table provides information on the capital structure of sfs as of
      september 30, 2013 and 2012:
                                                                                     c.4.3 credit rating

                                                                 september 30,       a key factor in maintaining a strong financial profile is our
       (in millions of €)                                 2013            2012       credit rating, which is affected by, among other factors, our
       allocated equity                              1,938              1,790        capital structure, profitability, ability to generate cash flow,
       sfs debt                                     15,600            14,558         geographic and product diversification and our competitive
                                                                                     market position. our current corporate credit ratings from
       debt to equity ratio                           8.05                8.13       moody ’s investors service (moody ’s) and standard & poor’s
                                                                                     ratings services (s&p) are noted as follows:



      for purposes of measuring capital efficiency at sfs, equity                                                                       moody’s                     s&p
      capital is allocated to sfs. allocated equity capital differs from               long-term debt                                       aa3                     a+
      book capital as it is mainly determined and influenced by the                    short-term debt                                       p-1                  a -1+
      size and quality of its portfolio of commercial finance assets,
      project and structured finance assets (primarily loans and leas-
      es) and equity investments. this allocation is designed to cov-
      er the risks of the underlying business. the actual risk of the                on may 14, 2013, moody ’s changed its outlook for siemens’
      sfs portfolio is evaluated and controlled on a regular basis.                  credit rating from “stable” to “negative,” stating that “despite the
      the allocated equity is calculated quarterly.                                  group’s substantial cost reduction initiatives, we expect its prof-
                                                                                     itability, cash flow generation and capital structure to be weaker
      in august 2012 we announced, that we would adjust our capi-                    than anticipated in 2013 and 2014.” a rating outlook is an opin-
      tal structure through share buybacks amounting to up to €3                     ion regarding the likely direction of an issuer’s long-term credit
      billion by december 30, 2012. in fiscal 2012, we repurchased                   rating over the medium-term. rating outlooks of moody ’s fall
      23,202,500 treasury shares at a weighted average share price                   into the following six categories: “positive,” “negative,” “stable,”
      of €76.14. at the beginning of fiscal 2013 we repurchased a fur-               “developing,” “ratings under review” or “no outlook.”
      ther 14,746,786 treasury shares at a weighted average price of
      €78.14, and completed this share buyback program in novem-                     at the same time, moody ’s affirmed our “aa3” long-term and
      ber 2012. in addition, in fiscal 2013, we repurchased as many                  our “p-1” short-term credit ratings. the classification “aa” is the
      treasury shares as necessary to keep the number of treasury                    second highest category within moody ’s long-term credit rat-
      shares at a set level until the effective date of the spin-off of              ing scale. the numerical modifier “3” indicates a ranking in the
      osram and fulfilled commitments for share-based compensa-                      lower end of that category. the classification “p-1” is the high-
      tion through treasury shares.                                                  est available rating in the prime rating system of moody ’s,
                                                                                     which assesses issuers’ ability to honor senior financial obliga-
      in november 2013, we announced a new share buyback pro-                        tions and contracts. it applies to senior unsecured obligations
      gram. we intend to repurchase shares of up to €4 billion in                    with an original maturity of less than one year.
      volume within the next up to 24 months. the program will
      support our continued approach toward our capital structure                    s&p made no rating changes in fiscal 2013. s&p’s long-term
      target. the shares repurchased may be used for the purposes                    credit rating for siemens is “a+” and the rating outlook is “sta-
      of cancellation and reduction of capital stock, issuances to                   ble.” within s&p’s long-term credit rating scale, “a” is the
      employees, board members of affiliated companies and mem-                      third-highest long-term rating category. the modifier “+” indi-
      bers of the managing board as well as to meet obligations                      cates that our long-term debt ranks in the upper end of the “a”
      arising under and in connection with convertible bonds and                     category. rating outlooks of s&p fall into the following four
      warrant bonds.                                                                 categories: “positive,” ”negative,” ”stable” or “developing.” s&p’s




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155    c.     combined ­management report
194
                                                    156    c.1    business and ­economic environment        207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173    c.2    financial performance system              209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179    c.3    results of operations                     210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192    c.4    financial position                        227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204    c.5    net assets position                                                        ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                        ­associated material o

short-term rating is “a-1+,” which is the highest rating within                          healthcare’s investments are mainly driven by the medical im-
s&p’s short-term rating scale.                                                           aging and therapy systems and laboratory diagnostics busi-
                                                                                         nesses. large parts of the additions are related to intangible
the u.s. securities and exchange commission granted moody ’s                             assets, such as licenses as well as developing and implement-
and s&p the status of nationally recognized statistical rating                           ing software and it solutions.
organizations (nrsros). siemens does not have any agree-
ments with other nationally recognized statistical rating orga-                          industry spends a large portion of its additions to intangible
nizations to provide long-term and short-term credit r­ atings.                          assets, particularly software, and property, plant and equip-
                                                                                         ment for additional capacities for innovative products, for opti-
we believe that our high credit rating for our long-term debt                            mization of its global footprint; and for the replacement of
applied by moody ’s and s&p allows us to raise funds in the                              these fixed assets.
capital markets with attractive conditions or to obtain flexible
financing from banks. a high credit rating generally leads to                            infrastructure & cities spends large amounts of its additions to
lower credit spreads and therefore our rating also positively                            intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for invest-
affects our funding costs. we expect no significant impact on                            ments in innovations at the power grid solutions & products
our funding costs as a consequence of the changed rating                                 business, particularly including the low and medium voltage
outlook by moody ’s.                                                                     division, and at the building technologies division. the sector
                                                                                         also invests significant amounts in the replacement and ex-
security ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold                           pansion of technical equipment in order to improve productivi-
securities. credit ratings may be subject to revision or with-                           ty and its position in growing market segments, particularly at
drawal by the rating agencies at any time and each rating                                the transportation & logistics business.
should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
                                                                                         the changes of additions to intangible assets and property,
                                                                                         plant and equipment from fiscal 2012 to 2013 were as follows:
c.4.4 investing activities
                                                                                                 additions to intangible assets and property,
                                                                                                 plant and equipment (in millions of €)
due to tight control of capital expenditures, additions to intan-
gible assets and property, plant and equipment from continu-                               siemens (continuing operations)
ing operations decreased from €2.195 billion in the prior year                             fy 2013           1,869
                                                                                                                                                                       (15)%
to €1.869 billion in fiscal 2013. within the sectors, in fiscal 2013                       fy 2012           2,195
we directed significant portions of €1.350 billion of our addi-
                                                                                           energy
tions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment to
                                                                                           fy 2013            425
investments for technological innovations, extending our ca-                                                                                                           (22)%
                                                                                           fy 2012            547
pacities for designing, manufacturing and marketing new
solutions and for the necessary replacements of these fixed                                healthcare
assets. the majority of the additions in fiscal 2013 took place in                         fy 2013            291
the focus areas of investing activities described below, which                                                                                                         (18)%
                                                                                           fy 2012            354
will basically continue to be the focus areas regarding the in-
vesting activities of the sectors in fiscal 2014. the remaining                            industry

portion in fiscal 2013, €519 million, related mainly to sre and                            fy 2013            395
                                                                                                                                                                        (5)%
its responsibility for uniform and comprehensive management                                fy 2012            417
of company real estate worldwide.
                                                                                           infrastructure & cities
                                                                                           fy 2013            239
energy ’s additions include investments mainly in improving                                                                                                            (18)%
                                                                                           fy 2012            290
the sector’s global footprint to secure organic growth and
competitiveness by improving its cost position and strength-
ening technological innovations. these investments include
further spending in the extension of capacities and facilities
especially for the technology-driven wind power market, par-                             for information with respect to acquisitions of businesses, see
ticularly in northern europe.                                                               note 4 in   d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .




                                                                                                                     253     d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                     357     e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                               195
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.4.5 cash flows                                                                                   ed in the measure, such as dividends, debt repayment or acqui-
                                                                                                         sitions. we also use free cash flow to compare cash generation
      the following discussion presents an analysis of our cash                                          among the segments of our business. free cash flow should not
      flows from operating, investing and financing activities for fis-                                  be considered in isolation or as an alternative to measures of
      cal 2013 and 2012 for both continuing and discontinued opera-                                      cash flow calculated in accordance with ifrs. for further infor-
      tions. discontinued operations include primarily osram and                                         mation about the usefulness and limitations of this measure,
      siemens it solutions and services, which were classified as                                        see     c.12 notes and forward-looking statements .

      discontinued operations during the second quarter of fiscal
      2011, and the water technologies business unit, which was                                          cash flows from operating activities – continuing opera-
      classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter                                    tions provided cash for operating activities of €7.126 billion in
      of fiscal 2013. siemens it solutions and services was sold to                                      fiscal 2013, compared to cash provided of €6.923 billion in the
      atos in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. in july 2013, siemens                                   prior-year period. in both periods, the major component of
      successfully completed its spin-off and listing of osram.                                          cash inflows was income from continuing operations, which
                                                                                                         was €4.212 billion in fiscal 2013 compared to €4.642 billion in
      the cash flows from operating activities are presented using                                       fiscal 2012. included therein were amortization, depreciation
      the indirect method, i.e. cash flows are determined by adjust-                                     and impairments of €2.888 billion and €2.818 billion, in fiscal
      ing net income by using a reconciliation, considering the                                          2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively. a build-up of operating net
      ­effects of non-cash items, changes during the period in assets                                    working capital led to cash outflows of €1.8 billion in fiscal
       and liabilities, particularly in operating net working capital,                                   2013, compared to cash outflows of €0.8 billion in the pri-
       and all other items for which cash effects are investing or                                       or-year. in both periods the increase in operating net working
       ­financing activities. cash flows from investing and financing                                    capital was due mainly to a decrease in billings in excess of
        activities are determined on the basis of the direct method,                                     costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts and
        whereby major classes of cash flows are disclosed.                                               related advances primarily in the energy sector. fiscal 2013
                                                                                                         benefited from positive cash flow effects relating to the change
      we report free cash flow as a supplemental liquidity measure,                                      of other assets and liabilities including the increase of person-
      which is defined as cash flows from operating activities less                                      nel-related liabilities compared to a decrease in the prior year.
      cash used for additions to intangible assets and property, plant                                   fiscal 2013 included cash outflows of approximately €0.4 bil-
      and equipment. we believe that a positive free cash flow en-                                       lion corresponding to charges to income taken for the
      ables us to maintain a healthy capital structure, and that the                                     “siemens 2014” program. for comparison fiscal 2012 included
      presentation of free cash flow also provides useful information                                    cash outflows of approximately €0.3 billion related to the re-
      to investors because it gives an indication of the long-term                                       valuation of healthcare’s particle therapy business for general
      cash-generating ability of our business and of our ability to pay                                  patient treatment as well as healthcare’s “agenda 2013” initia-
      for discretionary and non-discretionary expenditures not includ-                                   tive. both fiscal years included interest received of €0.8 billion.

              cash flows

                                                                                                       continuing operations            discontinued operations                      continuing and
                                                                                                                                                                           ­discontinued operations
                                                                                                    year ended september 30,            year ended september 30,           year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                                                 2013             2012              2013              2012              2013              2012
       cash flows from:
       operating activities                                                                            7,126              6,923              214               188            7,340             7,110
       investing activities                                                                           (4,836)          (5,029)              (240)             (656)          (5,076)           (5,685)
            therein: additions to intangible assets and
                      property, plant and equipment                                                   (1,869)          (2,195)              (142)             (215)          (2,012)           (2,410)
            free cash flow 1                                                                           5,257              4,727                71               (27)          5,328             4,700
       financing activities                                                                           (3,422)          (3,523)                 26              468           (3,396)           (3,055)


              1 the closest comparable financial measure of free cash          continuing operations as well as from continuing and           that report free cash flow may define and calculate this
                 flow under ifrs is the line item cash flows from operat-       discontinued operations is reported in   d.4 consoli-          measure differently.
                 ing activities. cash flows from operating activities from      dated statements of cash flows . other companies




       92    a.   to our shareholders
      117    b.   corporate ­governance                                  155   c.    combined ­management report
196
                                                                         156   c.1   business and ­economic environment                  207    c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                         173   c.2   financial performance system                        209    c.7   subsequent events
                                                                         179   c.3   results of operations                               210    c.8   sustainability
                                                                         192   c.4   financial position                                  227    c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                         204   c.5   net assets position                                                                   ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                      ­associated material o

discontinued operations provided cash of €214 million in fiscal                                  free cash flow (in millions of €) 1

2013, compared to cash inflows of €188 million in the prior
                                                                                           q4 2013           4,357
year. in both periods cash inflows related primarily to osram.
                                                                                           q3 2013             956
                                                                                           q2 2013           1,360
cash flows from investing activities – cash used in investing                              q1 2013           (1,416)
activities for continuing operations amounted to €4.836 billion                            q4 2012           4,328
in fiscal 2013, compared to cash used of €5.029 billion in the                             q3 2012             870
prior-year period. acquisitions of businesses, net of cash ac-                             q2 2012             534
quired, totaled €2.801 billion in the current period, including a                          q1 2012           (1,004)
preliminary purchase price payment (excluding cash acquired)
of €1.987 billion for infrastructure & cities’ acquisition of inven-                             1 continuing operations.
sys rail and €670 million for industry ’s acquisition of lms in-
ternational nv. sfs continued to successfully execute its asset
growth strategy, and cash outflows for the change in receiv-                             cash flows from financing activities – continuing opera-
ables from financing activities amounted to €2.175 billion and                           tions used cash for financing activities of €3.422 billion in fis-
€2.087 billion, in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. the prior                         cal 2013, compared to cash used of €3.523 billion in the same
year included acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired,                          period a year earlier. as described in     c.4.6.1 debt and credit

totaling €1.295 billion, including among others the acquisition                          facilities , the current period included proceeds from the issu-

of the connectors and measurements division of expro hold-                               ance of long-term debt of €3.772 billion related to the bonds
ings uk 3 ltd. in fiscal 2013 cash inflows of €2.463 billion for                         issued and term loans taken. these cash inflows were more
the disposal of investments, intangibles and property, plant                             than offset by the repayment of long-term debt of €2.927 billion
and equipment included proceeds of €1.7 billion relating to the                          related mainly to the redemption of €2.0 billion fixed-rate-in-
sale of our 50% stake in nsn and €0.3 billion relating to the                            struments and a us$1.0 billion floating-rate term loan and by
sale of our atos convertible bonds. for comparison, cash in-                             the cash outflows for the purchase of treasury shares totaling
flows of €753 million in the prior year included proceeds from                           €1.394 billion. the purchase of treasury shares was made pri-
the sale of our interest in oao power machines. due to tight                             marily under siemens’ share buyback program, which was
control of capital expenditures particularly within the sectors,                         completed in november 2012. for comparison, prior-year pro-
additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equip-                            ceeds from the issuance of long-term debt were €5.113 billion,
ment from continuing operations decreased from €2.195 bil-                               including the issuance of us$3.0 billion bonds with warrant
lion in the prior year to €1.869 billion in fiscal 2013.                                 units as well as the issuance of €1.4 billion and £1.0 billion in
                                                                                         fixed-rate instruments in four tranches. these cash inflows
discontinued operations used cash of €240 million in fiscal                              were largely offset by the repayment of long-term debt of
2013, compared to cash used of €656 million in the prior year,                           €3.218 billion in the prior year for the redemption of €1.55 bil-
when cash outflows related to siemens it solutions and ser-                              lion in 5.25% fixed rate instruments, €0.7 billion in floating rate
vices included payments of a mid triple-digit million euro                               assignable loans, us$0.5 billion in floating rate notes and
amount.                                                                                  us$0.75 billion in 5.5% notes and by the cash outflows for the
                                                                                         purchase of treasury shares totaling €1.721 billion. both peri-
free cash flow from continuing operations increased to €5.257                            ods included cash outflows for dividends paid to shareholders
billion in fiscal 2013 from €4.727 billion a year earlier, reflecting                    of siemens ag, which were €2.528 billion (for fiscal 2012) in
a higher conversion of income into cash year-over-year. the in-                          fiscal 2013 compared to €2.629 billion in fiscal 2012 (for fiscal
crease of free cash flow year-over-year was due to higher cash                           2011). in fiscal 2013 we recorded cash inflows of €298 million
inflows from operating activities and lower additions to intan-                          for financing of discontinued operations, compared to cash
gible assets and property, plant and equipment as discussed                              outflows of €506 million a year earlier. discontinued opera-
above.                                                                                   tions are financed generally from corporate treasury. how­
                                                                                         ever, fiscal 2013 included an external term loan in the amount
on a sequential basis free cash flow during fiscal 2013 and                              of €300 million, which was drawn by osram near the effective
­fiscal 2012 developed as follows:                                                       date of its spin-off.




                                                                                                                       253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                       357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       197
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.4.6 capital resources and requirements                                                              net debt results from total debt less total liquidity. manage-
                                                                                                            ment uses the net debt measure for internal finance manage-
      our capital resources consist of a variety of short- and long-                                        ment, as well as for external communication with investors,
      term financial instruments including, but not limited to, loans                                       analysts and rating agencies, and accordingly we believe that
      from financial institutions, commercial paper, notes and                                              presentation of net debt is useful for those concerned. net
      bonds, and credit facilities. in addition to cash and cash equiv-                                     debt should not, however, be considered in isolation or as an
      alents and available-for-sale financial assets, liquid resources                                      alternative to short-term debt and long-term debt as presented
      consist of future cash flows from operating activities.                                               in accordance with ifrs. for further information about the
                                                                                                            usefulness and limitations of net debt, see      c.12 notes and

      our capital requirements include, among others, sched-                                                forward-looking statements .

      uled debt service, regular capital spending, ongoing cash
      ­requirements from operating and sfs financing activities,
       ­including cash outflows related to the growth strategy of                                                                                                                               september 30,
        sfs, dividend payments, pension plan funding, portfolio ac-                                           (in millions of €)                                                           2013            2012
        tivities, and cash outflows in connection with “siemens                                               short-term debt and current maturities
                                                                                                              of long-term debt                                                          1,944           3,826
        2014,” a company-wide program aimed at improving profit-
                                                                                                              long-term debt                                                           18,509          16,880
      ability in the sectors.
                                                                                                              total debt                                                               20,453          20,707
                                                                                                              cash and cash equivalents                                                 (9,190)       (10,891)
      c.4.6.1 debt and credit facilities
                                                                                                              available-for-sale financial assets (current)                               (601)           (524)
      total debt comprises our notes and bonds, loans from banks,
                                                                                                              total liquidity                                                           (9,790)       (11,415)
      obligations under finance leases and other financial indebted-
                                                                                                                net debt 1                                                             10,663            9,292
      ness such as commercial paper. total debt comprises short-
      term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as well as
                                                                                                                     1 we typically need a considerable portion of our cash and cash equivalents as well
      long-term debt, as stated on the consolidated statements of                                                        as current available-for-sale financial assets at any given time for purposes other
      financial position. total liquidity refers to the liquid financial                                                 than debt reduction. the deduction of these items from total debt in the calculation
                                                                                                                         of net debt therefore should not be understood to mean that these items are
      assets we had available at the respective ends of the reporting                                                   ­available exclusively for debt reduction at any given time. net debt comprises
                                                                                                                         items as stated on      d.3 consolidated statements of financial position .
      periods to fund our business operations and pay for near-term
      obligations. total liquidity comprises cash and cash equiva-
      lents as well as current available-for-sale financial assets, as                                      the changes in net debt from fiscal 2012 to 2013 may also be
      stated on the consolidated statements of financial position.                                          presented as follows:

             changes in net debt (in millions of €)

                   9,292                      1,787                      (8,914)                     4,836                         3,186                         476                       10,663




             net debt as of             cash outflows for the        income and other           cash flows from            changes in certain             effect of deconsolidati-    net debt as of
             september 30, 2012         build-up of operating        changes in cash            investing activities 2     financing activities 3         on of osram on cash         september 30, 2013
                                        net working capital 1        flows from                                                                           and cash equivalents
                                                                     operating activities

                                        total cash flows from operating activities 2


             1 in fiscal 2013, cash outflows for the build-up of operating    of €217 million and for billings in excess of costs and              3 included cash flows relating to certain financing activities
                net working capital included cash outflows for inventories     ­estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts and related                such as dividends paid and purchase of treasury shares
                less advance payments received of €218 million, for trade       advances of €1,060 million.                                            as well as effects without cash flow impact such as effects
                and other receivables of €293 million, for trade payables                                                                              of exchange rates and fair value hedge accounting
                                                                               2 continuing operations.
                                                                                                                                                       adjustments.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance                                   155   c.      combined ­management report
198
                                                                         156   c.1     business and ­economic environment                     207      c.6    overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                         173   c.2     financial performance system                           209      c.7    subsequent events
                                                                         179   c.3     results of operations                                  210      c.8    sustainability
                                                                         192   c.4     financial position                                     227      c.9    r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                         204   c.5     net assets position                                                                         ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                              ­associated material o

commercial paper program – we have a us$9.0 billion (€6.7                                   june 2018. in august 2008, we increased two of the three
billion) global multi-currency commercial paper program in                                  tranches of the €3.4 billion fixed-rate instruments by €750
place, which includes the ability to issue us$-denominated ex-                              million, comprising: €350 million in 5.25% p.a. instruments
tendible notes. in fiscal 2013 we issued commercial paper in                                matured and redeemed at face value in december 2011 and
varying amounts to fund our ongoing short-term capital re-                                  €400 million in 5.625% p.a. instruments due in june 2018.
quirements. our issuances of commercial paper typically have                             >> in march 2006, we issued us$1.0 billion in instruments in
a maturity of less than 90 days. as of september 30, 2013, we                               two tranches, comprising: us$500 million in floating-rate
had no commercial paper outstanding. all commercial paper                                   instruments (three months libor + 0.15% p.a.) matured and
issued in fiscal 2013 was completely repaid within the year.                                redeemed at face value in march 2012 and us$500 million in
                                                                                            5.625% p.a. fixed-rate instruments due in march 2016.
notes and bonds – we have a “program for the issuance of
debt instruments” (debt issuance program) of €15.0 billion in                            the nominal amount outstanding under the debt issuance pro-
place which we update on a regular basis. the last update was                            gram was €10.9 billion as of september 30, 2013.
made in may 2013. under this program, we issued the follow-
ing instruments:                                                                         in february 2012, siemens issued us$ fixed-rate bonds with
                                                                                         warrant units in an aggregate principal amount of us$3.0 bil-
>> in june 2013, we issued us$400 million in floating-rate in-                           lion in two tranches, comprising: (1) us$1.5 billion in 1.05%
   struments due in june 2020 (private placement).                                       p.a. instruments due in august 2017 and (2) us$1.5 billion in
>> in march 2013, we issued €2.25 billion and us$500 million in                          1.65% p.a. instruments due in august 2019. each of the us$1.5
   fixed-rate instruments in three tranches, comprising: €1.25                           billion bonds were issued with 6,000 detachable warrants. the
   billion in 1.75% p.a. instruments due in march 2021, €1.0 bil-                        warrants’ exercise price was fixed in euro. the warrants were
   lion in 2.875% p.a. instruments due in march 2028 and                                 classified as equity instruments with a fair value of €126 mil-
   us$500 million in 1.5% p.a. instruments due in march 2018.                            lion at issuance presented in capital reserves in line item other
>> also in march 2013, we issued us$100 million in 3.5% p.a.                             changes in equity. the warrants entitle the holders, at their op-
   fixed-rate instruments due in march 2028 (private place-                              tion, to receive 1,806.1496 siemens ag shares per warrant at an
   ment).                                                                                exercise price per share of €104.0018 during the exercise period
>> in september 2012, we issued €1.4 billion and £1.0 billion in                         for bond (1) and bond (2), which mature in august 2017 and au-
   fixed-rate instruments in four tranches, comprising: €400                             gust 2019, respectively. after the spin-off of osram in fiscal
   million in 0.375% p.a. instruments due in september 2014,                             2013, the warrants entitle the holders to obtain osram shares
   €1.0 billion in 1.5% p.a. instruments due in march 2020,                              in addition to siemens shares. accordingly, the warrants no lon-
   £350 million in 2.75% p.a. instruments due in september                               ger qualify as equity instruments since the approval of the spin-
   2025 and £650 million in 3.75% p.a. instruments due in sep-                           off in january 2013 and the warrants’ fair value of €163 million
   tember 2042.                                                                          was reclassified from line item capital reserves to non-current
>> in february 2012, we issued us$400 million in floating-rate                           other financial liabilities. the warrants result in option rights re-
   instruments (three months london interbank offered rate                               lating to a total of 21.7 million siemens ag shares. the equiva-
   (libor) + 1.4% p.a.) due in february 2019 (private place-                             lent amount of these bonds excluding warrant units outstand-
   ment).                                                                                ing was €2.2 billion as of september 30, 2013.
>> in february 2009, we issued €4.0 billion in fixed-rate instru-
   ments in two tranches, comprising: €2.0 billion in 4.125%                             in september 2006, we issued a subordinated fixed-rate hybrid
   p.a. instruments matured and redeemed at face value in                                bond in two tranches, comprising: €900 million in 5.25% p.a.
   february 2013, €2.0 billion in 5.125% p.a. instruments due in                         instruments and £750 million in 6.125% p.a. instruments, both
   february 2017.                                                                        tranches with a final legal maturity in september 2066. the
>> in june 2008, we issued €3.4 billion in fixed-rate instru-                            company has a call option after ten years or thereafter. if the
   ments in three tranches, comprising: €1.2 billion in 5.25%                            instruments are not called, both tranches will become float-
   p.a. instruments matured and redeemed at face value in de-                            ing-rate instruments according to the conditions of the bond.
   cember 2011, €1.0 billion in 5.375% p.a. instruments due in                           the total nominal amount of our hybrid bond was €1.8 billion
   june 2014 and €1.2 billion in 5.625% p.a. instruments due in                          as of september 30, 2013.




                                                                                                                253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                 199
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      in august 2006, we issued us$5.0 billion medium-term notes                      + 0.15% p.a.) which was drawn in january 2007 and re-
      in four tranches, comprising: us$750 million in floating-rate                   deemed at face value in august 2013 as well as an undrawn
      instruments (three months libor + 0.05% p.a.) matured and                       us$3.0 billion revolving tranche.
      redeemed at face value in august 2009, us$750 million in 5.5%                >> €4.0 billion undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving
      p.a. fixed-rate instruments matured and redeemed at face val-                   credit facility provided by a syndicate of international banks
      ue in february 2012, us$1.750 billion in 5.75% p.a. fixed-rate                  with a five year tenor and two one-year extension options,
      instruments due in october 2016 and us$1.750 billion in                         which was signed in april 2012. in february 2013, we ex-
      6.125% p.a. fixed-rate instruments due in august 2026. we may                   tended this facility by one year, until april 2018. one one-
      redeem, at any time, all or some of the fixed-rate instruments                  year extension option is still remaining.
      at the early redemption amount (call) according to the condi-                >> €450 million bilateral undrawn revolving credit facility pro-
      tions of the instruments. the nominal amount of these us                        vided by a domestic bank expired in september 2013. this
      ­medium term notes outstanding was €2.6 billion as of septem-                   credit facility has been extended to september 2014. 
       ber 30, 2013.
                                                                                   the maturity profile of the loans, notes and bonds described
      assignable and term loans                                                    above is presented below:
      >> in march 2013, we signed and fully drew two bilateral
         us$500 million floating-rate term loans (three months                             loans, notes and bonds maturity profile
                                                                                           (nominal amounts outstanding in billions of €)
         ­libor +0.79% p.a.). both loans are due in march 2018 and
          include options for two one-year extensions. the nominal
          amount outstanding was €0.7 billion as of september 30,                                             4.42
          2013.
      >> in june 2008, we issued four tranches of assignable loans                                                   2.7
                                                                                                       2.2
           with an aggregate amount of €1.1 billion: €370 million in                                                                                                      1.81
                                                                                          1.4                               1.4    1.3 1.3            1.32 1.1
           floating-rate instruments (six months european interbank                                    1.81
                                                                                                                                                                    0.8
           offered rate (euribor) + 0.55% p.a.) and €113.5 million in                           0.3                                             0.4
                                                                                                        0.4
           5.283% p.a. fixed-rate instruments, both matured in june                      2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2025 2026 2028 2042 2066
           2013 and €283.5 million in floating-rate instruments (six
           months euribor + 0.7% p.a.) and €333 million in 5.435% p.a.                     1 the maturity of the hybrid bond depends on the exercise of a call option:
                                                                                              the bond is callable by us in september 2016 and thereafter, with a final legal
           fixed-rate instruments, both maturing in june 2015. both                           maturity ending in september 2066.

           floating-rate instruments were called in august 2011 and                        2 we may redeem, at any time, all or some of us$-notes, issued in august
                                                                                              2006, at the early redemption amount (call) according to the conditions of
          ­redeemed at face value in december 2011. in june 2013, we                          the notes.

           redeemed at face value the €113.5 million in 5.283% p.a.
           fixed-rate instruments.
                                                                                   as mentioned above, we maintain two lines of credit, in the
      credit facilities – we have three credit facilities at our dispos-           amounts of €4.0 billion and us$3.0 billion, respectively.
      al for general corporate purposes. our credit facilities as of               these two lines of credit provide their lenders with a right of
      september 30, 2013, consisted of €6.7 billion in committed, un-              termination in the event that (1) siemens ag becomes a sub-
      used lines of credit. these facilities included:                             sidiary of another company or (2) a person or a group of per-
                                                                                   sons acting in concert acquires control over siemens ag by
      >> us$3.0 billion undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving                being able to exercise decisive influence over its activities
         credit facility provided by a syndicate of international banks            (art. 3 (2) of council regulation (ec) 139 / 2004). in addition,
         with a five year tenor and two one-year extension options,                 siemens ag has a bilateral credit line at its disposal in the
         which was signed in september 2013. it replaced a                         amount of €450 million as mentioned above which may be
         us$4.0 billion syndicated multi-currency credit facility which            terminated by the lender if major changes in siemens ag’s
         expired in august 2013. the us$4.0 billion facility comprised             corporate legal situation occur that jeopardize the orderly
         a us$1.0 billion floating-rate term loan (three months libor              ­repayment of the credit.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
200
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment                   207   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system                         209   c.7    subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                                210   c.8    sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                                   227   c.9    r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                                    ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                  ­associated material o

none of our credit facilities contains a material adverse change                               debt – as of september 30, 2013, siemens had €20.453 billion
provision of the type often found in facilities of such nature,                                of short- and long-term debt, of which €1.944 billion will
and none of our global commercial paper and debt issuance                                      ­become due within the next twelve months. short-term debt
programs nor our credit facilities contain specific financial cov-                              includes current maturities of long-term debt, as well as loans
enants such as rating triggers or interest coverage, leverage or                                from banks coming due within the next twelve months. fur-
capitalization ratios that could trigger remedies, such as accel-                               ther information about the components of debt is given in
eration of repayment or additional collateral.                                                     note 22 in   d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .



we mitigate the risk resulting from changes in the fair value of                                debt for siemens as of september 30, 2013 consisted of the
future changes relating to our loans, notes and bonds by using                                 ­following:
derivative financial instruments which allow us to hedge fair
value changes by swapping fixed rates of interest rates to vari-
able rates. as of september 30, 2013, 41% of our underlying                                      (in millions of €)                        short-term     long-term         total
loans, notes and bonds were changed from fixed interest rates                                    notes and bonds                               1,431        17,060        18,491
into variable interest rates. in addition, in order to optimize our                              loans from banks                                 412         1,233        1,645
position with regard to interest income and interest expense                                     other financial indebtedness                      82           106         188
and to manage the overall financial interest rate risk with re-                                  obligations under finance leases                  20           110         130
spect to valuation risk affecting profit and loss and economic                                   total debt                                    1,944        18,509        20,453
risk of changing interest rates, our corporate treasury per-
forms a comprehensive corporate interest rate management,
under which the interest rate risk relating to the sfs business
and to the remaining group are managed separately. further                                     purchase obligations – purchase obligations include agree-
information about our bonds and the other components of our                                    ments to purchase goods or services, which are enforceable
debt as well as about the use of financial instruments for hedg-                               and legally binding and which specify all of the following
ing purposes is provided in         notes 22, 31 and 32 in       d.6                           items: (1) fixed or minimum quantities, (2) fixed, minimum or
notes to consolidated financial statements .                                                   variable price provisions and (3) approximate timing of the
                                                                                               transaction. as of september 30, 2013, siemens had €19.977
c.4.6.2 contractual obligations                                                                billion in purchase obligations. these purchase obligations pri-
in the ordinary course of business, siemens’ primary contrac-                                  marily related to agreements of our sectors on the purchase of
tual obligations regarding cash relate to debt, purchase obliga-                               goods such as property, plant and equipment, intangible as-
tions and operating leases.                                                                    sets, raw materials and supplies or to the purchase of services
                                                                                               such as advertising or maintenance. these purchase obliga-
the following table summarizes our contractual obligations as                                  tions have not been recognized as liabilities or expenses as of
of september 30, 2013 that will result in future cash outflows:                                september 30, 2013.

        payments due by period                                                                 in december 2010, siemens and atos signed an option agree-
                              total    less than    1-3 years     4-5 years         after      ment (written call option) which granted atos the right to ac-
 (in millions of €)                       1 year                                  5 years
                                                                                               quire siemens it solutions and services. the closing of the
 debt                     20,453         1,944        2,928           7,580       8,001        transaction was on july 1, 2011. related to the transaction is a
 purchase
                                                                                               seven-year outsourcing contract worth around €5.5 billion, un-
 obligations              19,977       14,441         3,037           1,148       1,350
                                                                                               der which atos provides managed services and system inte-
 operating leases           3,120          807        1,020            536          757
                                                                                               gration to siemens. the expected remaining cash outflows
 total contractual
 obligations              43,550       17,192         6,985           9,264     10,108         from the outsourcing contract are included in these purchase
                                                                                               obligations. for further information on that transaction, see
                                                                                                  note 4 in   d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .




                                                                                                                        253     d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                        357     e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                    201
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance         246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                       ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant           250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      operating leases – as of september 30, 2013, siemens had                     post-employment benefits, see              note 23 in            d.6 notes to

      a total of €3.120 billion in total future payment obligations                consolidated financial statements .

      ­under non-cancelable operating leases, mainly relating to sre
       activities.                                                                 for further information with respect to contractual obligations,
                                                                                   see     note 32 in   d.6 notes to consolidated financial state-

      other – siemens is subject to asset retirement obligations                   ments .

      ­related to certain items of property, plant and equipment. such
       asset retirement obligations are primarily attributable to envi-            c.4.6.3 off-balance sheet arrangements
       ronmental clean-up costs related to remediation and environ-                guarantees – siemens guarantees are principally credit guar-
       mental protection, which amounted to €1.096 billion as of sep-              antees and guarantees of third-party performance. as of sep-
       tember 30, 2013. the environmental clean-up costs related to                tember 30, 2013, the undiscounted maximum amount of poten-
       remediation and environmental protection liabilities have                   tial future payments for guarantees was €5.973 billion, including
       been accrued based on the estimated costs of decommission-                  guarantees relating to discontinued operations. credit guaran-
       ing facilities for the production of uranium and mixed-oxide                tees cover the financial obligations of third-parties in cases
       fuel elements in hanau, germany (hanau facilities), as well as              where siemens is the vendor and / or contractual partner. in
       a nuclear research and service center in karlstein, germany                 ­addition, siemens provides credit guarantees generally as credit-­
       (karlstein facilities). for additional information with respect to           line guarantees with variable utilization to joint ventures and
       asset retirement obligations, see        note 24 in   d.6 notes to          associated and other companies accounted for using the equity
       consolidated financial statements .                                         method. total credit guarantees were €622 million as of sep-
                                                                                   tember 30, 2013. furthermore, siemens issues guarantees of
      our liquidity may be adversely affected in future periods by                 third-party performance, which include performance bonds
      regular or special contributions to fund our post-employment                  and guarantees of advanced payments in cases where siemens
      benefits. as of september 30, 2013, our liability for post-em-                is the general or subsidiary partner in a consortium. in the
      ployment benefits as recognized in the consolidated state-                    event of non-fulfillment of contractual obligations by the con-
      ments of financial positions amounted to €9.265 billion. how-                 sortium partner(s), siemens will be required to pay up to an
      ever, the recognized liability may fluctuate significantly in fu-             agreed-upon maximum amount. guarantees of third-­party per-
      ture periods due to changes in assumptions used in calculat-                  formance amounted to €1.593 billion as of september 30, 2013.
      ing the defined benefit obligations (dbo), in particular the
      discount rates, compensation increase rates, pension progres-                in fiscal 2007, the federal republic of germany commissioned
      sion rates and mortality rates. actual developments may differ               a consortium consisting of siemens and ibm deutschland g  ­ mbh
      from assumptions due to changing economic and other condi-                   (ibm) to modernize and operate the non-military information
      tions of the country in which the retirement plans are situated,             and communications technology of the german federal armed
      thereby resulting in an increase or decrease of the liability. em-           forces (bundeswehr). this project is called herkules. a proj-
      ployer contributions expected to be paid to the funded pen-                  ect company, bwi informationstechnik gmbh (bwi), provides
      sion plans during fiscal 2014 amount to €631 million, including              the services required by the terms of the contract. siemens is a
      contributions due to contractual and legal obligations of ap-                shareholder in the project company. the total contract value
      proximately €0.2 billion. additional contributions to our pen-               amounts to a maximum of approximately €6 billion. in connec-
      sion benefit plans may be made or contractually agreed at the                tion with this project, siemens issued several guarantees con-
      discretion of our management after the end of the reporting                  nected to each other legally and economically in favor of the
      period. the latest funding valuation in the u.k. in calendar                 federal republic of germany and of the consortium member
      year 2011 resulted in a technical underfunding of £939 (€1,123)              ibm in december 2006. the guarantees ensure that bwi has
      million, based on the assumptions at that date. as a result                  sufficient resources to provide the required services and to ful-
      siemens entered in fiscal 2013 into an agreement with the                    fill its contractual obligations. total future payments that we
      trustees to provide an annual payment of £31 (€37) million for               could potentially be required to make amounted to €1.89 bil-
      the next 20 years, beginning in fiscal 2014. in addition to these            lion as of september 30, 2013, and will be reduced by approxi-
      payments the company is obliged to pay £15 (€18) million until               mately €400 million per year over the remaining four-years of
      the next funding valuation, when the funding requirements                    the contract period as of september 30, 2013. yearly payments
      will be updated based on new assumptions. this valuation will                under these guarantees are limited to €400 million plus, if ap-
      take place approximately at the end of calendar year 2015. for               plicable, a maximum of €90 million in unused guarantees car-
      additional information regarding contributions to the fund our               ried forward from the prior year.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
202
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

other guarantees amounted to €1.867 billion as of september                              the combined funded status of siemens’ predominantly un-
30, 2013 and included indemnifications issued in connection                              funded other post-employment benefit plans amounted to an
with dispositions of business entities. such indemnifications,                           underfunding of €0.6 billion as of september 30, 2013, com-
if customary to the relevant transactions, may protect the buy-                          pared to an underfunding of €0.7 billion at the end of the prior
er from potential tax, legal and other risks in conjunction with                         fiscal year. the underfunding decreased mainly due to benefits
the purchased business entity. indemnifications include those                            paid and the annual remeasurement of dbo.
for en, disposed of in fiscal 2008, and siemens it solutions
and services disposed of in fiscal 2011. in the event that it be-                        for more information on siemens’ pension plans, see                   note 23

comes probable that siemens will be required to satisfy these                            in   d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .

guarantees, provisions are established. such provisions are es-
tablished in addition to the liabilities recognized for the                              c.4.6.5 other capital resources
non-contingent component of the guarantees.                                              and requirements
                                                                                         at the annual shareholders’ meeting scheduled for january
capital commitments – as of september 30, 2013, the compa-                               28, 2014, the managing board, in agreement with the super­
ny had commitments to make capital contributions to various                              visory board, will submit the following proposal to allocate the
companies of €223 million.                                                               unappropriated net income of siemens ag for the fiscal year
                                                                                         ended september 30, 2013: distribution of a dividend of €3.00
for additional information with respect to guarantees and our                            on each no-par value share entitled to the dividend for fiscal
other commitments, see       note 28 in   d.6 notes to consoli-                          year 2013 existing at the date of the annual shareholders’
dated financial statements .                                                             meeting, which is presently expected to result in total distribu-
                                                                                         tion of approximately €2.5 billion.
c.4.6.4 post-employment benefits
as of september 30, 2013, the combined funded status of                                  in november 2013, we announced that we will adjust our capi-
siemens’ pension plans showed an underfunding of €8.5 bil-                               tal structure through share buybacks. we expect cash outflows
lion, compared to an underfunding of €8.9 billion as of sep-                             up to €4 billion within the next up to 24 months.
tember 30, 2012. while the fair value of plan assets remained
unchanged, the defined benefit obligation (dbo) decreased by                             other capital requirements also include expected cash out-
€0.4 billion.                                                                            flows of €0.7 billion in fiscal 2014 relating to charges for the
                                                                                         “siemens 2014” productivity improvement program.
the dbo of siemens’ pension plans, which takes into account
future compensation and pension increases, amounted to €32.6                             after the end of fiscal 2013, we signed an agreement to sell our
billion on september 30, 2013, compared to a dbo of €33.0 bil-                           business for treating and processing municipal and industrial
lion at the end of the prior fiscal year. the decrease resulted                          water and wastewater that are bundled in our water technolo-
from benefits paid and positive currency translation effects, on-                        gies business unit, as well as the related service activities, to
ly partly offset by accrued service and interest cost. effects from                      funds managed by american european associates investors lp
assumption changes and deviations between ­        actual and as-                        (aea), u.s. we expect to receive payments relating to this
sumed development of the dbo offset each other in fiscal 2013.                           transaction of €0.6 billion in the first half of fiscal 2014.

the fair value of siemens’ plan assets was €24.1 billion, as of                          with our ability to generate positive operating cash flows, our
both september 30, 2013 and september 30, 2012. the actual                               total liquidity of €9.790 billion and our €6.7 billion in unused
return on plan assets for fiscal 2013 amounted to €1.3 billion,                          lines of credit and given our credit ratings at year-end, we be-
resulting mainly from equity investments. employer contribu-                             lieve that we have sufficient flexibility to fund our capital re-
tions amounted to €0.5 billion. these positive factors were off-                         quirements including scheduled debt service, regular capital
set by benefits paid and negative currency translation effects.                          spending, ongoing cash requirements from operating and sfs
                                                                                         financing activities, dividend payments, pension plan funding
       funded status of siemens’ pension plans (in billions of €) 1                      and portfolio activities. also in our opinion, our working capi-
                                                                                         tal is sufficient for the company ’s present requirements.
 september 30, 2013           (8.5)
 september 30, 2012           (8.9)


       1 continuing operations.




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                         203
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.5  net assets position


              structure of consolidated statements                                                         cash and cash equivalents decreased by €1.701 billion from
              of financial position (in millions of €)                                                     the prior-year level. for detailed information regarding the
                                                                                                           change, see     c.4.5 cash flows .
                                                                           total liabilities
                             total assets                                    and equity

                                   (6)%                                              (6)%                  the main factor in the decrease in the line item trade and oth-
                                                                                                           er receivables of €367 million was negative currency transla-
                                          108,251                                           108,251        tion effects.
                    101,936                                             101,936
      total current
                                                52,128   total current                            42,627
      assets
                                                (48%)    liabilities                              (39%)    the increase in loans receivable of sfs, associated with its
      46,937
                                                         37,868
      (46%)
                                                         (37%)
                                                                                                           growth strategy, was the primary factor in the increase of €349
      therein:
      total liquidity                           11,415                                                     million year-over-year in the line item other current financial
      9,790                                     (11%)    total
      (10%)                                              non-current                              34,200   assets.
                                                         liabilities                              (32%)
      total                                              35,443
      non-current                                        (35%)
      assets
                                                56,123
                                                (52%)
                                                                                                           in july 2013, we successfully completed our spin-off and listing
      54,999                                             total equity
      (54%)                                              28,625
                                                                                                  31,424
                                                                                                  (29%)
                                                                                                           of osram. as a result, we derecognized the net carrying
                                                         (28%)
                                                                                                           amount of the disposal group osram and the associated spin-
                        sep. 30,          sep. 30,                      sep. 30,            sep. 30,       off liability. mainly due to this spin-off, the line item assets
                         2013              2012                          2013                2012
                                                                                                           classified as held for disposal decreased to €1.393 billion as of
                                                                                                           september 30, 2013 compared to €4.799 billion a year earlier.

      our total assets in fiscal 2013 were influenced by negative cur-
      rency translation effects of €3.434 billion, led by the us$.                                                                                                                 september 30,
      within total assets of €101.936 billion, total assets related to                                       (in millions of €)                                                2013           2012
      sfs increased to €18.661 billion as of september 30, 2013 from                                         goodwill                                                      17,883         17,069
      €17.405 billion a year earlier. within total liabilities, sfs debt                                     other intangible assets                                         5,057          4,595
      increased to €15.600 billion from €14.558 billion a year earlier.                                      property, plant and equipment                                   9,815        10,763
      both changes were driven by the growth strategy at sfs. sfs                                            investments accounted for using
                                                                                                             the equity method                                               3,022          4,436
      assets represented 18% of siemens’ total assets as of septem-
                                                                                                             other financial assets                                        15,117         14,666
      ber 2013, compared to 16% a year earlier. sfs debt represented
                                                                                                             deferred tax assets                                             3,234          3,748
      15% of siemens total liabilities and equity, compared to 13% at
                                                                                                             other assets                                                      872            846
      the end of fiscal 2012.
                                                                                                             total non-current assets                                      54,999         56,123

      the following discussion presents an analysis of changes of
      our consolidated statements of financial position.
                                                                                                           goodwill increased to €17.883 billion as of september 30, 2013
                                                                                                           compared to €17.069 billion a year earlier. the increase in
                                                                                       september 30,       goodwill was due mainly to acquisitions and purchase ac-
       (in millions of €)                                                       2013              2012     counting adjustments, partly offset by negative currency
       cash and cash equivalents                                               9,190           10,891      translation effects. acquisitions and purchase accounting ad-
       available-for-sale financial assets                                      601               524      justments included the acquisition of invensys rail, which is
       trade and other receivables                                         14,853              15,220      being integrated into the infrastructure & cities sector’s mobili-
       other current financial assets                                          3,250            2,901      ty and logistics division, and lms international nv, which is
       inventories                                                         15,560              15,679      being integrated into the industry sector’s industry automa-
       current income tax assets                                                794               836      tion division.
       other current assets                                                    1,297            1,277
       assets classified as held for disposal                                  1,393            4,799
       total current assets                                                46,937              52,128




       92   a.      to our shareholders
      117   b.      corporate ­governance                                155    c.      combined ­management report
204
                                                                         156    c.1     business and ­economic environment             207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                         173    c.2     financial performance system                   209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                                         179    c.3     results of operations                          210   c.8   sustainability
                                                                         192    c.4     financial position                             227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                         204    c.5     net assets position                                                             ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                   ­associated material o

other intangible assets increased to €5.057 billion as of sep-                            the decrease of €436 million in the line item trade payables
tember 2013 compared to €4.595 billion a year earlier. the in-                            was due primarily to negative currency translation effects.
crease is due mainly to the acquisitions mentioned above,
partly offset by amortization and impairments.                                            the main factor of the decrease in the line item other current
                                                                                          liabilities to €19.701 billion as of september 30, 2013 from
property, plant and equipment decreased by €948 million year-                             €20.302 billion a year earlier was a decrease in billings in ex-
over-year. additions in fiscal 2013 were more than offset by re-                          cess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted con-
tirements, depreciation and impairments and negative curren-                              tracts and related advances.
cy translation effects.
                                                                                          liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal
investments accounted for using the equity method de-                                     decreased to €473 million as of september 30, 2013 from
creased year-over-year by €1.415 billion. the main factor was                             €2.049 billion a year earlier. the main factor was lower liabili-
the sale of our 50% share in nsn to its other shareholder,                                ties due to osram’s spin-off.
nokia corporation.

the line item other financial assets increased to €15.117 billion                                                                                                    september 30,
as of september 30, 2013 compared to €14.666 billion a year                                 (in millions of €)                                                  2013         2012
earlier. the change was due primarily to higher loans receiv-                               long-term debt                                                  18,509        16,880
able driven by the growth strategy at sfs and to the recogni-                               post-employment benefits                                          9,265        9,801
tion of our 17.0% stake in osram after the spin-off, partly off-                            deferred tax liabilities                                            504          494
set by a decrease in the non-current portion of the fair market                             provisions                                                        3,907        3,908
values of financial derivatives used for our hedging activities.                            other financial liabilities                                       1,184        1,083
                                                                                            other liabilities                                                 2,074        2,034
                                                                                            total non-current liabilities                                   35,443        34,200

                                                                        september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                              2013           2012
 short-term debt and current
 maturities of long-term debt                                   1,944         3,826
                                                                                          long-term debt increased by €1.629 billion as of september 30,
 trade payables                                                 7,599         8,036
                                                                                          2013, due mainly to the issuance of €1.25 billion in 1.75% p.a.
 other current financial liabilities                            1,515         1,460
                                                                                          instruments, €1.0 billion in 2.875% p.a. instruments, us$500
 current provisions                                             4,485         4,750
                                                                                          million in 1.5% p.a. instruments, two bilateral us$500 million
 current income tax liabilities                                 2,151         2,204
                                                                                          floating-rate term loans, us$400 million in floating-rate instru-
 other current liabilities                                  19,701           20,302
                                                                                          ments and us$100 million in 3.5% p.a. fixed-rate instruments.
 liabilities associated with assets
 classified as held for disposal                                 473          2,049       these issuances were partly offset by the above-mentioned re-
 total current liabilities                                  37,868           42,627       classification in the line item short-term debt and current ma-
                                                                                          turities of long-term debt.



short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt de-
creased by €1.882 billion as of september 30, 2013 compared to
the end of the prior fiscal year. the main factors in the de-
crease were the redemption of €2.0 billion in fixed-rate-instru-
ments and a us$1.0 billion floating-rate term loan, partly offset
by reclassifications of long-term €1.0 billion in 5.375% p.a. in-
struments due in june 2014 and €400 million in 0.375% p.a.
instruments due in september 2014.




                                                                                                                          253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                          357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                     205
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246    c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                  ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250    c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      the line item post-employment benefits decreased by €536                      european sovereign credit exposures – due to uncertainties
      million as of september 30, 2013, mainly due to the decrease of               regarding european sovereign debt exposures, we regularly
      the defined benefit obligation.                                               monitor our credit exposures in particular to public and private
                                                                                    sector debtors in italy, spain, greece, portugal and ireland.
                                                                                    these credit exposures include trade receivables from the sale
                                                                september 30,       of goods and services, receivables from finance leases and oth-
       (in millions of €)                                 2013           2012       er financial assets, totaling a low single-digit billion euro
       total equity attributable                                                    amount as of september 30, 2013. to evaluate these exposures
       to shareholders of siemens ag                  28,111         30,855
                                                                                    we perform a credit rating for public and private sector debtors
       equity ratio                                       28%            29%
                                                                                    using different methods subject to centrally defined limits. for
       non-controlling interests                          514            569
                                                                                    exposures to public sector debtors, which represented approxi-
       total liabilities and equity                  101,936        108,251
                                                                                    mately one third of these exposures, we applied a specific poli-
                                                                                    cy. this policy requires that the rating applied to individual
                                                                                    public sector customers cannot be better than the weakest of
                                                                                    the sovereign ratings provided by moody ’s, s&p’s and fitch for
      total equity attributable to shareholders of siemens ag de-                   the respective country. based on our ratings and our credit ex-
      creased from €30.855 billion at the end of fiscal 2012 to €28.111             posures to end customers or main contractors located in italy,
      billion at the end of fiscal 2013. in fiscal 2013, the main factors           spain, greece, portugal and ireland, we believe that siemens is
      relating to the decrease in total equity attributable to share-               well-positioned to bear these risks.
      holders of siemens ag were: (1) dividend payments of €2.528
      billion (paid for fiscal 2012); (2) measuring osram’s spin-off
      ­liability at fair value with any changes recognized in retained
       earnings of €2.270 billion and (3) repurchase of 17,150,820
       treasury shares at weighted average costs per share of €78.66.
       this decrease was partly offset by net income attributable to
       shareholders of siemens ag of €4.284 billion.

      for additional information on our net assets position, see
         d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.     combined ­management report
206
                                                    156   c.1    business and ­economic environment      207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2    financial performance system            209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3    results of operations                   210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4    financial position                      227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5    net assets position                                                      ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

c.6  overall assessment of the economic position


in fiscal 2013 our revenue came in 2% below the prior fiscal                               charges associated with the initiative compared to the prior
year. a slight increase at infrastructure & cities was more than                           year. profit at energy rose moderately year-over-year. in both
offset by lower revenue at industry and energy. revenue at                                 fiscal years the sector’s profit development was heavily bur-
healthcare was stable year-over-year. on an organic basis, ex-                             dened by charges. while profit in the current period was par-
cluding currency translation and portfolio effects, revenue was                            ticularly impacted by “siemens 2014” charges, charges related
1% down year-over-year, within our forecast given in our annual                            to projects and iran were substantially higher in the prior-year
report for fiscal 2012. we increased orders by 8% year-over-                             period. while total sectors profit fell year-over-year, this was
year. this increase was driven by our infrastructure & cities                            partly offset by a strong improvement outside the sectors. in
sector and the energy sector. both sectors won a sharply high-                           particular, equity investments posted a profit in fiscal 2013
er volume from major contracts – infrastructure & cities within                          ­following a loss a year earlier, as it benefited from a positive
its transportation & logistics business and energy within its                             effect stemming from a partial reversal of an impairment of
wind power division.                                                                      our stake in nsn and a gain related to the sale of this stake
                                                                                          during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. in the prior fiscal year,
in fiscal 2013, we achieved income from continuing opera-                                 results at equity investments were burdened by substantial
tions of €4.212 billion. this was lower than income from con-                             ­restructuring charges at nsn.
tinuing operations of €4.642 billion a year earlier and also be-
low our expectation of €4.5 to €5.0 billion as presented in our                          net income in fiscal 2013 increased to €4.409 billion, up from
annual report for 2012. a condition of that forecast was an                              €4.282 billion a year earlier, as results related to discontinued
expected recovery in the markets for our short-cycle busi-                               operations swung to a positive €197 million in fiscal 2013 from
nesses in the second half of fiscal 2013. this did not mate­                             a negative €360 million a year earlier. the improvement in
rialize. additionally, that forecast assumed “siemens 2014”                              discontinued operations year-over-year was due mainly to
                                                                                         ­
charges for fiscal 2013 of €1.0 billion (pretax). in fact the                            osram, which we successfully spun off in the fourth quarter
amount came in €0.3 billion higher. other factors largely                                of fiscal 2013. due to higher net income and a lower number
offset each other. while profit in the energy sector was
­                                                                                        of shares outstanding year-over-year following the share buy-
­burdened by portfolio topics related to the solar business,                             back program which we initiated in the fourth quarter of fiscal
 this impact was more than offset by positive effects related to                         2012, basic eps rose to €5.08 in the current period, up from
 the sale of our stake in nsn. due mainly to these factors, we                           €4.74 a year earlier.
 adjusted our forecast for income from continuing operations
 to €4.0 billion in the interim report for the third quarter of                          in fiscal 2013, healthcare reached the upper end of its adjusted
 fiscal 2013.                                                                            ebitda margin target range. adjusted ebitda margin at indus-
                                                                                         try fell year-over-year, but the sector remained in its target
lower income from continuing operations year-over-year was                               range. despite burdens from the solar business, energy nearly
due mainly to sharply lower profit in infrastructure & cites and                         reached the lower end of its adjusted ebitda target range,
industry. these sectors took the two largest shares in the                               while infrastructure & cities clearly missed its range.
above-mentioned “siemens 2014” charges. profit at infrastruc-
ture & cities was also burdened by sharply higher project                                as a result of a combination of lower than expected income
charges while profit development at industry was also held                               from continuing operations and a higher average capital em-
back by challenging market conditions, particularly in the sec-                          ployed, roce (adjusted) for continuing operations declined to
tor’s short-cycle businesses as mentioned above. in contrast,                            13.8% in fiscal 2013. this was below the lower end of our target
healthcare significantly improved profit year-over-year due                              range of 15% to 20%, which we expected to reach. roce (adjust-
mainly to successful execution of its “agenda 2013” and lower                            ed) for continuing operations a year earlier was 15.5%.




                                                                                                                253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                207
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      our free cash flow from continuing operations rose 11% to                    during fiscal 2013, we also made strong progress in focusing
      €5.257 billion year-over-year, as we increased our cash flows                our portfolio. our successful spin-off of osram was the first
      from operating activities and reduced investments in intangi-                such partial spin-off by a german company. with the spin-off,
      ble assets and property, plant and equipment year-over-year.                 siemens shareholders received one osram share per ten
                                                                                   siemens ag shares. independence gives osram the entrepre-
      we made further progress in fiscal 2013 with regard to reach-                neurial flexibility to focus exclusively on its own market, with
      ing our capital structure target. this target is defined as the ra-          additional sources for financing. a stake in osram gives
      tio of adjusted industrial net debt to adjusted ebitda, and set              shareholders of siemens ag an additional opportunity to
      at 0.5 to 1.0 for the medium term. as forecast in our annual                 ­participate in osram’s potential growth and value creation.
      report for 2012, we increased the ratio year-over-year, to 0.34               the shares of siemens ag rose on the first day of trading for
      from 0.24 a year earlier.                                                     osram, july 8, 2013, and the shares of both companies clearly
                                                                                    outperformed the german dax stock index through the re-
      overall, we believe that we achieved the goals for revenue and                mainder of the fi ­ scal year. we also sold our 50% stake in nsn.
      our capital structure announced in our annual report for 2012.                after the end of fiscal 2013, we signed an agreement to sell
      also we exceeded our revised target for income from continu-                  our business of ­mechanical, biological and chemical water
      ing operations announced in our interim report for the third                  treatment and processing. furthermore, we intend to sell our
      quarter of fiscal 2013. roce (adjusted) for continuing opera-                 airport logistics and postal automation business and exit our
      tions was below our expectations due primarily to lower in-                   solar business ­after completion of projects under execution.
      come from continuing operations than we forecast a year ago.                  at the same time, we strengthened our core activities by
                                                                                    ­acquiring lms international nv (lms) to expand and com­
      during the course of fiscal 2013 it became less likely that our                plement the industry sector’s industrial it and software busi-
      previous expectations for our markets would materialize. we                    ness, and by acquiring invensys rail to expand infrastruc-
      therefore no longer expect to achieve a total sectors profit                   ture & cities’ presence in the growing global rail automation
      margin of at least 12% in fiscal 2014. but we will continue to                 market.
      rigorously execute our “siemens 2014” program that was de-
      signed to achieve the margin target. at the end of fiscal 2013,              we intend to continue providing an attractive return to share-
      we were ahead of identifying and implementing the measures                   holders. as in the past, we intend to fund the dividend payout
      within the program aimed at sustainably improving our pro-                   from free cash flow. the siemens managing board, in agree-
      ductivity. we expect that “siemens 2014” will help us to narrow              ment with the supervisory board, proposes a dividend of €3.00
      or close the gap to our competitors in coming years.                         per share, unchanged from a year earlier.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
208
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

c.7  subsequent events


after the end of fiscal 2013, siemens signed an agreement to
sell its business for treating and processing municipal and in-
dustrial water and wastewater that are bundled in the siemens
water technologies business unit, as well as the related ser-
vice activities, to funds managed by aea investors lp, u.s., for
a purchase price of €0.6 billion. closing of the transaction is
subject to approval by regulatory authorities and is expected in
the first half of fiscal 2014.

in november 2013, siemens announced a share buyback of up
to €4 billion ending latest on october 31, 2015. the buybacks
will be made under the current authorization granted at the
annual shareholders’ meeting on january 25, 2011, which al-
lows for further share repurchases of a maximum of 47.8 mil-
lion shares under this program. shares repurchased may be
used for cancelling and reducing capital stock, for issuing
shares to current and former employees, to members of the
managing board and board members of affiliated companies
and for meeting obligations from or in connection with con-
vertible bonds or warrant bonds.




                                                                                                             253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                             357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                             209
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.8  sustainability


      c.8.1 sustainability at siemens                                                      as these examples show, sustainability is not embellishment
                                                                                           at siemens – it’s a central theme of our corporate strategy. the
      c.8.1.1 overview                                                                     following chapters detail this approach and provide further in-
      sustainability is a guiding principle within our company.                            formation on sustainability at siemens.
      siemens has defined sustainability to mean acting responsibly
      on behalf of future generations to achieve economic, environ-                        c.8.1.2 sustainability management
      mental and social progress. we are aware of the associated                           and organization
      high standards and the possibility of conflicting goals. never-                      the importance we attach to the topic of sustainability is evi-
      theless, the aim to create sustainable added value remains a                         dent in its central position within the company ’s organization
      key element of our corporate strategy. we are convinced that                         and in our programs and the measures we execute. efficient
      sustainability, in this sense, is also a business opportunity, and                   sustainability management is a company-wide task that requires
      one that is worth seizing. one siemens, our framework for                            a clear organizational structure and a thorough anchoring of
      sustainable value creation and capital-efficient growth, ad-                         sustainability in our corporate culture. all our sustainability
      dresses this business opportunity with its three strategic direc-                    ­activities are steered by the chief sustainability officer, who
      tions: focus on innovation-driven growth markets, get closer                          is a member of our managing board. in order to coordinate and
      to our customers and use the power of siemens. the relation-                          manage our sustainability activities efficiently, we established
      ship of each element to sustainability is explained below.                            the siemens sustainability board, the sustainability office and
                                                                                            the siemens sustainability advisory board.
      >> the products and solutions in our environmental portfolio
         and the innovation power of siemens play a central role in                        the siemens sustainability board, which is chaired by the
         contributing to environmental and climate protection while                        chief sustainability officer, is the central steering committee
         also strengthening our standing in the innovation-driven                          for sustainability at siemens. in its regular meetings it directs
         growth markets that we focus on.                                                  our sustainability program as part of our sustainable strategy
      >> an intense customer focus and a competitive, globally bal-                        and adopts appropriate measures and initiatives. our chief
         anced and localized network of suppliers supports us in                           sustainability officer also manages the sustainability office,
         ­getting closer to our customers all over the world.                              which is responsible for driving sustainability further within
      >> excellent employees are one of siemens’ vital strengths as                        siemens and for coordinating the sustainability program and
          they play a key role in our success and are the true power of                    other company-wide programs and measures.
          siemens. leveraging the power of siemens also means
          strictly adhering to clear principles of integrity – something                   to help us maintain an objective perspective on our sustain­
          we also expect of our partners and suppliers.                                   ability challenges and performance, we have also created the

             siemens sustainability board in fiscal 2013


                                                                         chief sustainability officer


                                                                        siemens sustainability board




                head of                     head of          head of                 head of                     head of                head of                       head of
               corporate                   corporate    corporate human           environmental                 corporate          corporate finance –            corporate legal
            communications                 strategies   resources – emea        protection, health            technology –           reporting and                and compliance
            and government                               and governance,           management                research & tech-          controlling
                 affairs                                    processes               and safety                nology center


                   chief                    cto of           ceo of                   ceo of                  ceo of                        ceo of                     ceo of
                 compliance                 energy      imaging & therapy       customer services        low and medium                    siemens                  cluster brazil
                   officer                 (energy)         systems                 (industry)                voltage                  financial services
                                                          (healthcare)                                   (infrastructure &
                                                                                                               cities)




       92   a.     to our shareholders
      117   b.     corporate ­governance                    155   c.    combined ­management report
210
                                                            156   c.1   business and ­economic environment                 207   c.6     overall assessment of the economic position
                                                            173   c.2   financial performance system                       209   c.7     subsequent events
                                                            179   c.3   results of operations                              210   c.8     sustainability
                                                            192   c.4   financial position                                 227   c.9     r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                            204   c.5   net assets position                                                                   ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                         ­associated material o

siemens sustainability advisory board, composed of eight                                 united nations global compact in 2003 and became a signato-
­eminent figures in science and industry from a range of dis­                            ry to the global compact’s ceo water mandate in 2008; since
 ciplines and regions of the world. none are employees of                                fiscal 2011, we are a member of the steering committee of the
 siemens. the board meets at least twice a year, and through pro-                        global compact’s “caring for climate” initiative. we regularly
 fessional ­exchanges and practical initiatives has already contrib-                     report on our sustainability performance using the guidelines
 uted to the further development of our sustainability program.                          (g3.0) of the global reporting initiative (gri), which aim at
                                                                                         high transparency and comparability for corporate sustain­
furthermore, assigned sustainability managers in the sectors                             ability reporting.
and regional units ensure that sustainability measures are im-
plemented throughout the company.                                                        siemens has been part of the widely respected dow jones
                                                                                         sustainability index for 14 consecutive years. within the
in our sustainability program we focus on targets and activi-                            ­index, we were ranked as industry leader in 2013 for ­industrial
ties in three areas: “business opportunities,” “walk the talk,”                           conglomerates for the sixth time in a row, and as ­industry
and “stakeholder engagement.” in the first area, we turn our                              group leader for capital goods for the second time. we also
approach to sustainability into concrete business opportuni-                              earned high ratings on a number of other indexes and rank-
ties. “walk the talk” means we are committed to embedding                                 ings, including those created by the prestigious cdp (carbon
sustainability throughout our organization and operations. in                             disclosure project). siemens had one of the top scores in the
the third area, we focus on collaboration with all relevant                               world for the sixth time in a row.
stakeholders. we regularly refine the underlying targets and
activities based on internal and external input, such as from
our dialogue with stakeholders.                                                          c.8.2 research and development
c.8.1.3 collaborating for                                                                c.8.2.1 research and development –
sustainability and performance                                                           organization and strategy
our sustainability efforts are based on our business conduct                             in fiscal 2013, we continued to focus on the following areas in
guidelines, which provide the ethical and legal framework                                research and development (r&d):
within which we conduct our business activities. they contain
the basic principles and rules for our conduct internally and                            (1) ensuring long-term future viability,
externally. specific issues, such as those relating to the envi-                         (2) enhancing technological competitiveness, and
ronment, are covered in more detailed regulations and guide-                             (3) optimizing the allocation of r&d resources.
lines. the business conduct guidelines are binding for all com-
panies controlled by siemens.                                                            our r&d activities are geared toward ensuring economically
                                                                                         sustainable energy supplies and developing software solu-
furthermore, we believe that close collaboration with stake-                             tions, which are essential to maintaining the long-term com-
holders supports us in addressing complex, interlocking sus-                             petitiveness of our sectors. accordingly, major focus areas in-
tainability challenges and topics. maintaining an intensive dia-                         clude:
logue with partners along the supply chain and with external
stakeholder groups and organizations is important for us:                                >> increasing the efficiency of renewable and conventional
siemens is actively engaged with leading global sustainability                              ­energy sources for power generation,
organizations, such as the world business council for sustain-                           >> improving low-loss electricity transmission systems,
able development (wbcsd) and the world resources institute                               >> developing new solutions for smart grids, carbon dioxide
(wri). we also liaise every two years with a broad group of                                  separation systems for power plants, and technologies for
stakeholders on key sustainability issues, and track their most                              storing energy from fluctuating renewable sources,
significant concerns in a materiality matrix that helps guide                            >> making medical imaging, in-vitro diagnostics, and health-
our sustainability program.                                                                  care it an integral part of outcome oriented treatment plans,
                                                                                             and
in addition, we are committed to international standards and                             >> further development of industrial software to accelerate
guidelines for sustainability. for example, we signed on to the                              processes at every point along the value chain.




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               211
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      another major focus is promoting more efficient energy use in               such new collaborative approaches are also a substantial part
      buildings, industrial facilities, and the transport sector. exam-           of our open innovation (oi) concept, in which we receive in-
      ples include the development of electric drives and mass                    put from internal as well as external experts that significantly
      transportation systems such as local and long-distance trains               contributes to the innovative power of the company. with oi
      and subways.                                                                we aim to overcome the barriers of silo thinking, to prove and
                                                                                  truly leverage the potential of an open network enterprise.
      across all focus areas, we recognize the vital importance of                since 2008, when the first oi project was launched, 35,000
      ­sophisticated software solutions. this is true not just for the            employees from more than 80 countries have participated in
       areas mentioned above but also in nearly all of the other fields           nine internal oi pilot projects and our external efforts have
       in which siemens is active. siemens software was used, for ex-             mobilized more than 1,750 external solvers on 17 projects.
       ample, to virtually develop, build, test, and continually opti-
       mize the mars rover curiosity, before it was built. curiosity              the technology fields addressed by oi cover all technological
       landed on mars in august 2012.                                             areas of siemens. they include:

      r&d activities are carried out by both our sectors and our                  >> research on materials that help make our products more
      ­corporate technology (ct) department. the sectors focus their                 ­efficient;
       r&d efforts on the next generations of their products and solu-            >> the creation of it platforms, it security solutions, software
       tions. in contrast, the aim of ct is to work with our operating                architecture, technical systems, energy technologies,
       units to develop the group’s technology and innovation strate-                 ­sensors, and electronic components; and
       gies, especially for the next generation of their products and             >> research into new solutions for system engineering, data
       solutions. in addition, ct helps secure our technological and                   analysis, automation and communication technologies,
       innovational future.                                                            medical information systems, and imaging processes. 

      ct is a worldwide network with primary locations in germany,                in addition, siemens takes part in publicly funded research
      the u.s., china, russia, india, and austria. the more than                  programs. the most important research areas include the de-
      6,900 ct employees contribute their in-depth understanding                  velopment of sustainable technologies including recycling,
      of fundamental technologies, models, and trends, as well as                 the communication of machines, the creation of new materi-
      their wealth of software and process expertise. ct strives to               als and bio-technology.
      secure the technological and innovative future through com-
      monly developed core technology initiatives such as future of               ct offers extensive process and production consulting services
      automation, data to business or system integration. with its                for development and manufacturing units at siemens. ct em-
      global network of experts, our corporate research unit serves               ploys more than 4,400 software developers at locations in
      as a strategic partner for siemens’ operating units. ct makes               asia, europe, and the americas. these specialists help our
      important contributions along the entire value chain, from re-              business units develop concepts from the initial idea to the
      search and development to production technology, manufac-                   finished product.
      turing processes, and the testing of products and solutions. ct
      is also networked with leading universities and research insti-             ct strategically handles the intellectual property of siemens.
      tutes worldwide. the principal objectives of these close collab-            around 430 experts help the company register patents and
      orations with strong external partners are:                                 trademarks, establish them, and put them to profitable use.

      >> leveraging the potential of joint r&d projects,                          c.8.2.2 research and development figures
      >> establishing and further developing a network of universities            in fiscal 2013, we reported research and development expens-
         and research institutes that siemens closely cooperates                  es of €4.291 billion, compared to €4.245 billion in fiscal 2012
         with, as well as systematically enhancing communication                  and €3.903 billion in fiscal 2011. the resulting r&d intensity,
         with these institutions, and                                             defined as the ratio of r&d expenses and revenue, was 5.7%,
      >> strengthening siemens’ attractiveness as an employer of                  above the r&d intensity in fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011.
         choice for highly qualified young talents in scientific and
         technical disciplines.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance             155   c.    combined ­management report
212
                                                   156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                   173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                   179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                   192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                   204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

       r&d intensity                                                                                  as of september 30, 2013, siemens held approximately 60,000
                                                                                    research and      granted patents worldwide in its continuing operations. as of
                                                        research and                development       september 30, 2012, it held approximately 57,000 granted pat-
                                development expenses (in billions of €)                intensity 1
                                                                                                      ents. in terms of the number of published patent applications
 fy 2013          4.291                                                                     5.7%
                                                                                                      in calendar year 2012, siemens ranked third in germany and
 fy 2012          4.245                                                                     5.5%
 fy 2011          3.903                                                                     5.4%
                                                                                                      second in europe. siemens was also ranked eleventh in the
                                                                                                      statistics for patents issued in the u.s. in calendar year 2012.
       1 
         r&d intensity is defined as the ratio of r&d expenses and revenue.
                                                                                                              rank in patent office statistics

                                                                                                                                                          2012          2011    2010
r&d expenses and intensity for the sectors in fiscal 2013, 2012                                         germany – german patent
and 2011 were as follows:                                                                               and trade mark office (dpma)                         3             3      3
                                                                                                        europe – european patent office (epo)                2             1      1
       r&d expenses                                                                                     u.s. – united states patent
                                                                                                        and trademark office (us pto)                      11            10       9
 (in millions of €)                              fy 2013            fy 2012             fy 2011
 energy                                             872                 868                782
 healthcare                                       1,230              1,314               1,173
 industry                                         1,265              1,192               1,103
 infrastructure & cities                            731                 699                696        c.8.2.3 research and development
                                                                                                      in the sectors
                                                                                                      our r&d activities in the energy sector are focused on devel-
                                                                                                      oping methods for the efficient generation and transmission
       r&d intensity                                                                                  of electrical energy, including
                                                 fy 2013            fy 2012             fy 2011
 energy                                            3.3%                3.1%               3.1%        >> technologies for low-loss electricity transmission,
 healthcare                                        9.0%                9.6%               9.4%        >> advanced gas turbines that increase the efficiency and
 industry                                          6.8%                6.1%               5.9%           ­reduce emissions of power plants,
 infrastructure & cities                           4.1%                4.0%               4.1%        >> combined cycle power plants, to increase the availability
                                                                                                          of electricity through higher flexibility,
                                                                                                      >> wind turbine innovations,
                                                                                                      >> technologies that extract the greenhouse gas carbon
ct incurred additional r&d expenses.                                                                      ­dioxide from the flue gas that occurs during fossil fuel-fired
                                                                                                           power generation (carbon capture and storage), and
       r&d indicators1                                                                                >> a subsea power grid to make deep-sea oil and gas extraction
 (in thousands)                                                     fy 2013             fy 2012            more profitable.
 employees 2                                                           29.8               29.5
 inventions 3                                                             8.4               8.8       examples of research and development in energy include type
 patent first filings 4                                                   4.0               4.6       b75 rotor blades for wind turbines, which are 75 meters in
                                                                                                      length; this makes them, to our knowledge, the longest rotor
       1 continuing operations.                                                                      blades in operation in the world as of the date of this report. at
       2 average number of employees in fiscal year.                                                 25 tons, the b75 is also a “lightweight,” as it is 10% to 20% light-
       3 number of inventions reported by the business units in an internal report.                  er than comparable rotor blades. heavy rotor blades are sub-
       4 first filings as part of inventions submitted to patent offices.
                                                                                                      jected to higher stress loads and also require more massive
                                                                                                      nacelles, towers, and foundations. the combination of intelli-
in our continuing operations, we had an average of approxi-                                           gent design and low weight therefore has a positive effect on
mately 13,300 r&d employees in germany and approximately                                              the cost of wind power production.
16,500 employees in approximately 30 other countries during
fiscal 2013, including, among others, the u.s., china, austria,                                       in 2011, a combined-cycle power-generation island built by
and india.                                                                                            siemens in irsching, germany, demonstrated an unprecedented




                                                                                                                                253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                                357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                       213
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance             246      c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                              ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant               250      c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      net efficiency rating of 60.75% at an output of 578 megawatts.                hospitals named somatom perspective 64. it reduces radia-
      in april 2013, three additional power plant blocks featuring                  tion doses for patients by up to 60 percent, with improved
      h-class gas turbines commenced commercial operation in                     ­image quality. the system needs only 18 square meters, it can
      cape canaveral, florida. another combined-cycle power plant                 be installed in less than two days, and it comes with low
      with this turbine as the main driver has been commissioned in               ­energy consumption and air-conditioning requirements. both
      august 2013 in dangjin, south korea. it also reaches an effi-                versions are among the most economical scanners in their
      ciency level of approximately 61%.                                           ­respective classes.

      in fiscal 2013, siemens installed the helwin1 offshore plat-               another focus area is automating clinical work processes and
      forms in the north sea. with a capacity of 576 megawatts                   optimizing laboratory diagnostics, with a goal of enabling phy-
      (mw), these platforms will supply clean wind-generated elec-               sicians to identify diseases more precisely and at an earlier
      tricity to more than 500,000 german households on the main-                stage. physicians are then able to monitor the effect of medica-
      land. helwin1 will link the two offshore wind farms, known as              tions more accurately and benefit from the evaluation and ana-
      nordsee ost and meerwind, to the mainland. the alternating                 lytical capabilities of modern computer technology. as a result,
      current power generated by the wind turbines is transformed                therapies can be tailored more closely to a patient’s needs. the
      into low-loss high-voltage direct current (hvdc) for transmis-             sector also develops products that meet the specific, targeted
      sion onto land. the total transmission losses for this connec-             requirements of the healthcare systems of emerging countries.
      tion are less than 4%. siemens’ hvdc plus technology not only
      reduces the space requirements for hvdc systems, which is a                one of the r&d priorities in the industry sector is the soft-
      decisive factor for installation at sea, but also features self-­          ware-based integration of product planning and production
      stabilization. this enhances grid reliability in the event of              processes within the framework of product lifecycle manage-
      power fluctuations, which can occur with wind-based power                  ment. the objective is to accelerate processes at every point
      generation.                                                                along the value chain. a good example is the technology for
                                                                                 industrial production of implants. with the help of intelligent
      the r&d activities in the healthcare sector are focused on                 software solutions, prosthetics can be produced more effi-
      meeting customer requirements, which are the result of two                 ciently and cost-effectively. innovative technologies like
      major trends: the world’s population continues to grow steadi-             these can cut the time from design to market in the manufac-
      ly and to get older. these trends increase the pressure on                 turing industry by up to 50%. the further development of
      healthcare providers to treat more and more people at increas-             ­automation and drive technology, and industrial software in
      ingly lower costs in order to stabilize rising healthcare expen-            particular, plays a major role here. this applies to the product
      ditures. to overcome the challenges of making healthcare                    development and production process as well as to the inte-
      more efficient and more effective, the healthcare measures                  gration of the drive system. it also applies to metal manufac-
      have to focus on the individual patient and the success of the              turing, where the software-assisted planning and operation
      treatment.                                                                  of entire steel mills are increasingly influencing production.
                                                                                  moreover, the industry sector is striving to achieve greater
      one of the sector’s r&d fields involves the development of                  energy efficiency, reduce raw material consumption, and
      systems that help physicians make precise diagnoses of large                ­lower emissions. these objectives also guide the develop-
      numbers of patients and are also robust, easy to use, and inex-              ment of technology-based service concepts such as energy
      pensive to purchase and maintain. one example is the world’s                 management and remote maintenance systems, as well as
      first wireless ultrasound device, acuson freestyle. the system               the creation of efficient, resource-conserving solutions for
      makes it easier to use advanced ultrasound technology in ar-                 steel production.
      eas that need to be aseptic, or sterile. examples include inter-
      ventional radiology, anesthesiology, intensive care, catheter              r&d activities in our infrastructure & cities sector focus on
      labs, and emergency care. ultrasound with wireless transduc-               urban growth issues. main research fields therefore cover sus-
      ers is also ideally suited for minimally-invasive procedures               tainable technologies for major metropolitan areas and their
      such as nerve blockades, access to blood vessels, and position-            infrastructures. the main aims are to increase energy efficien-
      ing for therapeutic interventions and biopsies.                            cy, reduce burdens on the environment, increase cost-effec-
                                                                                 tiveness, and improve the quality of life in cities. to this end,
      along with its full-size computed tomography scanner                       the sector develops building technologies that conserve energy,
      somatom perspective 128, healthcare offers a version designed              solutions for ensuring an efficient and secure supply of elec-
      especially for outpatient clinic and small and medium-sized                tricity in cities, and intelligent traffic and transport systems.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance            155   c.    combined ­management report
214
                                                  156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                  173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                  179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                  192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                  204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                   ­associated material o

examples include the extremely lightweight and almost fully                              >> e-sourcing: we significantly increased the proportion of ex-
recyclable inspiro modular subway train and the innovative                                  ternal purchases that we award via electronic bidding over
and especially lightweight sf7000 bogie. in the field of build-                             the last few years to more than 10%.
ing automation, the desigo facility automation system inte-
grates many of its system components into buildings them-                                we expect to realize further savings potential within the
selves and thus achieves significant energy savings. in addi-                            framework of siemens 2014 by further integrating supply
tion, researchers are looking for ways to integrate buildings                            chain management activities into other business activities,
into smart grids. through such integration, the buildings can                            such as design and production. the relevant lever in this con-
feed the electricity they produce into the grids and provide ad-                         text is material cost productivity and in particular design-to-
ditional power during times of peak demand.                                              cost, which optimizes the design of products in order to reduce
                                                                                         material cost.
in fiscal 2013, siemens launched a large “smart city” project in
vienna, austria in conjunction with partners. a living laborato-                         we are strengthening siemens’ innovation power by benefit-
ry will be created in the next five years in the waterside district                      ing from the innovative strength in our supplier network. with
of aspern, which is expected to constitute one of the largest                            our siemens supplier forum, we established a platform for
urban development projects in europe. in this laboratory, pow-                           regular dialogue with our top strategic suppliers at the ceo
er supply, building systems, intelligent power grids, and infor-                         level. with this dialogue, we aim to ensure long-term cost
mation and communication technologies will interact in an                                leadership, realize shared growth potential and increase inno-
optimized way.                                                                           vation capabilities. to promote outstanding suppliers for their
                                                                                         excellence, we introduced siemens supplier awards for a num-
                                                                                         ber of categories.
c.8.3 supply chain management
                                                                                         sustainability is a guiding principle for our supply chain man-
the principal goal of supply chain management at siemens is                              agement. sustainability requirements are therefore an integral
to ensure the availability and quality of the materials we re-                           part of all relevant supplier management processes – such as
quire to serve our customers also considering innovation                                 supplier selection, supplier qualification and evaluation, and
strength and sustainability of our suppliers. we aim to                                  supplier development. we require all of our suppliers to com-
strengthen our competitiveness by achieving substantial sav-                             ply with the principles of our code of conduct for siemens
ings in our purchasing volume. in fiscal 2013, siemens’ pur-                             suppliers, which include respect for the basic rights of em-
chasing volume amounted to approximately €38 billion, which                              ployees and environmental protection. we also require them to
equaled roughly half of our total revenue. our primary strate-                           support its implementation in their own supply chains. we
gies for achieving savings in purchasing are the following:                              have established a risk-based system of appropriate processes
                                                                                         to enable us to systematically identify potential risks in our
>> siemens-wide managed volume: we bundle more than                                      supply chain. it consists of sustainability self-assessments by
   half of our purchasing volume which includes direct and in-                           suppliers, risk evaluation conducted by our purchasing depart-
   direct material. through this worldwide pooling of volume,                            ment, sustainability questions within supplier quality audits
   we achieve substantial economies of scale.                                            and sustainability audits by external auditors. to further en-
>> sourcing from emerging markets: we try to move to-                                    courage sustainable business conduct throughout our entire
   wards a globally balanced supply chain network. one es-                               global supply chain, we are committed to building our suppli-
   sential element is to constantly increase the share of sourc-                         ers’ competence and intensifying knowledge transfers related
   ing from global value sourcing (gvs) countries, which are                             to sustainability.
   generally emerging economies. to accomplish this goal,
   we identify, select and fully qualify suppliers from gvs                              in 2012, the sec adopted a regulatory rule, known as the “con-
   countries, and engage them in a continuous development                                flict minerals rule.” this rule aims to increase transparency and
   process that extends to sustainability thereafter. addition-                          responsibility in the procurement of “conflict minerals” from
   ally, we encourage and support our suppliers to expand                                the conflict zones of the democratic republic of congo and
   their operations in order to follow our manufacturing foot-                           the surrounding region. a project organization was estab-
   print in these countries. in fiscal 2013, we further increased                        lished to address the requirements within our supply chain in
   the proportion of our sourcing coming from gvs countries                              fiscal 2013. for further information, see      c.9.3 risks .

   on a comparable basis.




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               215
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.8.4 production                                                            demanding requirements of our customers while streamlin-
                                                                                  ing our cost position and those of our customers compared
      in-house production is an important cornerstone of our opera-               with competitors.
      tions. siemens operates around 290 major production and
      manufacturing plants in more than 35 countries worldwide,                   with the implementation of lean principles in our production
      including facilities at certain joint ventures and associated               operations, we aim to simultaneously achieve both shorter
      companies. a major production and manufacturing plant is de-                lead times and higher quality in our processes, products and
      fined as a facility at business unit level in which raw or source           solutions. this enables us to react even more flexibly to our
      materials are transformed into finished goods on a large scale              customers’ demands and to increase our delivery reliability.
      by using equipment and production resources such as ma-                     by now, the sps has already been established in more than
      chines, tools, energy and labor. around 140 major production                80% of our major production and manufacturing facilities
      and manufacturing plants are located in the region europe,                  worldwide.
      c.i.s., africa, middle east; around 80 major production and
      manufacturing plants are located in the region americas and                 it is our strategy to ensure that all of our production and
      around 70 major production and manufacturing plants are lo-                 manu­facturing facilities apply lean principles and that these
      cated in the region asia, australia. with around 100 major pro-             principles are also adopted by other functions such as
      duction and manufacturing plants, the energy sector accounts                adminis­tration or engineering. for the latter purpose, we
      for the greatest proportion of these, followed by the infrastruc-           have widened the range of our lean expert qualifications by
      ture & cities sector (around 80 major facilities), the industry             adding specific training programs for employees engaged in
      sector (around 70 major facilities) and the healthcare sector               adminis­tration. by the end of fiscal 2013, a total of more than
      (around 40 major facilities).                                               780 ­employees have joined (and in part already completed)
                                                                                  lean expert qualification programs for production and / or
      key elements of our production strategy include sustained im-               ­administration.
      provement in the cost position for our products and solutions,
      and locating production sites geographically to support the de-
      velopment of new markets. china, for example, is one of our                 c.8.5 quality management
      largest growth markets, and we have established our presence
      there with around 45 major production and manufacturing                     outstanding quality in our products and solutions is a key suc-
      plants. one of the most significant features of our production              cess factor for our company. we believe that siemens is known
      activities is the diversity of products, volumes and processes:             for high quality in its business processes and customer proj-
      the spectrum of our products ranges from hearing aids to a                  ects, which many customers consider essential in meeting
      600-tonne steam turbine; production volume can be anything                  their needs.
      from a single customer-specific order to high-tech serial pro-
      duction; and production processes range from automated pro-                 our main objective in terms of quality is high customer satis-
      duction in clean rooms to manual final assembly of major in-                faction. we measure customer satisfaction using the net pro-
      stallations on construction sites.                                          moter score, which is discussed in more detail below. internal
                                                                                  audits and assessments, together with regular benchmarking,
      besides innovation in product technologies, also innovation                 help us ensure the effectiveness and further development of
      and efficiency improvement of production technologies plays                 our quality management. our quality management system is
      an important role for siemens. in this context the efficiency of            designed to meet or exceed relevant recognized international
      energy and raw material as well as environmental sustainabili-              standards.
      ty of production processes is our focus.
                                                                                  we aim to maintain a strong culture of continuous improve-
      we designed the siemens production system (sps) in our                      ment and high transparency. transparency in this context
      aim to continuously improve our global production process-                  means to measure quality and make it visible. to that end, we
      es. the sps is our structured approach to designing and oper-               have developed a comprehensive quality approach throughout
      ating the production operations of siemens in accordance                    the company to increase the quality of our products and pro-
      with so-called “lean” principles. these principles aim to re-               cesses. we have defined binding standards in the areas of
      duce or eliminate activities in our business processes that                 quality responsibility, quality controlling, process quality and
      add no customer value. this helps us satisfy the increasingly               quality awareness for all siemens units worldwide.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance             155   c.    combined ­management report
216
                                                   156   c.1   business and ­economic environment      207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                   173   c.2   financial performance system            209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                   179   c.3   results of operations                   210   c.8   sustainability
                                                   192   c.4   financial position                      227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                   204   c.5   net assets position                                                      ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                   ­associated material o

the quality management organization is well established at all                           their respective countries. this keeps us close to our custom-
levels of our business. some 10,000 employees in our continu-                            ers and positions us to offer fast and customizable solutions to
ing operations actively provide quality management and quali-                            their business needs. we are currently selling products and
ty assurance within our operational units. we believe that it is                         services in around 190 countries. because of our long-lasting
particularly important to ensure that quality is measurable and                          local presence we are often perceived as local citizens. we
transparent.                                                                             founded our first subsidiary in russia in 1855, opened our first
                                                                                         permanent office in china in 1904, founded our brazilian sub-
the quality of our products and processes depends strongly on                            sidiary siemens do brasil in 1905 and founded our first indian
the capabilities of our employees. training on quality is                                subsidiary in 1924.
therefore an integral part of our corporate culture. training op-
portunities are made available to all employees. this applies in                         sustainable customer relationships are the basis for our long-
particular to quality managers who, as experts in their fields,                          term success. we employ a structured key account manage-
must demonstrate expertise with the relevant quality tools.                              ment (kam) approach throughout the company to take care of
professional development options include web-based solu-                                 our key customers. this means that we seek to tailor our prod-
tions, training plans specific to particular target groups, and                          ucts and solutions to their size and regional site structures. we
on-the-job training. we regularly expand the portfolio of our                            also aim to ensure that our key account managers continually
training courses to complement traditional areas of the                                  develop and maintain relationships with them over the long
siemens quality management approach. courses include top-                                term. this approach is supplemented by our executive rela-
ics such as quality management in projects, inspections and                              tionship program. in this program, members of the company ’s
audits, and quality tools. we develop training courses in coop-                          managing board stay in direct contact with selected customers
eration with experienced internal personnel and experts from                             and maintain an ongoing dialogue with them to familiarize
universities and partner institutions. this approach seeks to                            siemens with their needs.
ensure effective transfer of expertise within the company as
well as to and from external specialists.                                                our business success is strongly dependent on the satisfaction
                                                                                         of our customers. for this reason, we measure customer satis-
product safety is an essential aspect of product quality and an                          faction in every unit of the company using the net promoter
element of technical compliance. for this reason, product safe-                          score (nps). this internationally recognized and commonly
ty is also a strategic objective of the entire value-added pro-                          applied managerial performance indicator, which we deter-
cess. safe product design encompasses the safety of all prod-                            mine annually on a worldwide basis by means of customer sur-
ucts and services developed, manufactured and sold by                                    veys, measures the referral rate of our customers. the nps for
siemens. it involves and defines requirements for just about                             fiscal 2013 was based on the results of more than 25,200 inter-
every function in the company and addresses the entire lifecy-                           views, compared to more than 24,100 interviews in fiscal 2012.
cle from development, production and maintenance / repair to                             in fiscal 2013, our company-wide nps once again increased
enhancement / modification until final disposal. accordingly,                            compared to the previous fiscal year.
we consider legal requirements and relevant standards as well
as the current state of science and technology.                                          to ensure the high quality and continuous improvement of our
                                                                                         customer support, we have developed our account manage-
                                                                                         ment excellence program and our sales management ­excellence
c.8.6 distribution and customer relations                                                program. we carry out strength-and-weakness analyses as well
                                                                                         as training and qualification measures under these programs,
our sectors, divisions, business units, and sfs have global re-                          aiming to ensure consistently high standards in our worldwide
sponsibility for their business, sales and results. they are able                        customer relationship management. in fiscal 2013, we success-
to support customers around the world directly from their re-                            fully enlarged the number of participating key account manag-
spective headquarters, especially for large contracts and proj-                          ers in our kam certification program to ensure high quality and
ects. however, most of our customers are small and medi-                                 consistent standards at our customer interfaces.
um-sized companies and organizations that require local sup-
port. to address local business opportunities with them, we                              an elementary component of all our global marketing and sell-
are able to draw upon a large global sales force steered by our                          ing activities is compliance with applicable laws and internal
regional companies. they are responsible for the distribution                            rules and regulations. for example, siemens values and com-
of the siemens portfolio across our sectors and divisions in                             pliance are an integral part of our training program.




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               217
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      our systematic efforts to achieve customer satisfaction have                by the end of fiscal 2014. due to recent and ongoing portfolio
      been recognized by outside institutions. in 2013, for example,              changes it is no longer likely that we will achieve this target
      siemens ranked in a leading position in customer relationship               purely with our own operations by the end of fiscal 2014.
      management in the “industrial conglomerates” category of the                siemens’ strategic focus on technologies for energy efficiency
      sam dow jones sustainability index for the fourth consecutive               and climate and environmental protection will nevertheless re-
      year. in addition, our customer management is also considered               main in place. for fiscal year 2013, more than two-thirds of the
      exemplary in the academic world – a position we strengthened                revenue from our environmental portfolio were already gener-
      over the past fiscal year through academic collaborations with              ated with products and solutions for energy efficiency.
      columbia university, university of houston, darden university
      of virginia, hec paris and technical university of munich,                  with our environmental portfolio, we intend, among other
      among others. we believe that such collaborations position                  things, to help our customers reduce their carbon dioxide foot-
      siemens to compete effectively for sales talents. they also in-             print, cut their energy costs and improve their profitability
      crease our social engagement in the form of training for young              through an increase in productivity. taking together all ele-
      people in multiple countries.                                               ments of the environmental portfolio that were installed at
                                                                                  customer locations since the beginning of fiscal 2002 and re-
                                                                                  main in use today, we have reduced customer carbon dioxide
      c.8.7 environmental portfolio                                               emissions by 377 million metric tons in fiscal 2013, which is the
                                                                                  equivalent of the following twelve cities’ combined yearly
             indicators 1                                                         emissions: berlin, cape town, london, los angeles, melbourne,
                                                 year ended september 30,         mexico city, moscow, new york city, são paulo, seoul, singa-
                                                        2013           2012       pore and tokyo.
       revenue generated by the
       siemens environmental portfolio                                            c.8.7.1 reporting principles
       (in billions of €)                            32.3              32.7
                                                                                  we report the revenue from our environmental portfolio and
       accumulated annual customer
       reductions of carbon dioxide emissions                                     annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions gen-
       generated by ­elements from the                                            erated by it in accordance with internal regulations defined in
       siemens environmental portfolio
       (in millions of metric tons)                     377            333
                                                                                  our environmental portfolio guideline. this guideline is based
                                                                                  on the reporting principles of the greenhouse gas protocol
                                                                                  corporate accounting and reporting standard, revised edition,
             1 continuing operations.
                                                                                  and the greenhouse gas protocol for project accounting. both
      our environmental portfolio serves as an example of how we                  of these standards are published by the world resources insti-
      strive to align our business activities with the aforementioned             tute (wri) and the world business council for sustainable de-
      megatrends, in this case climate change. the environmental                  velopment (wbcsd).
      portfolio consists of products, systems, solutions and services
      (environmental portfolio elements) that reduce negative im-                 the principles underlying these standards are relevance, com-
      pacts on the environment and emissions of carbon dioxide and                pleteness, consistency, transparency, accuracy and conser­
      other greenhouse gases (defined together in the following as                vativeness. as there are currently no accepted international
      carbon dioxide emissions) responsible for climate change.                   standards for identification and reporting of so-called green
                                                                                  products, we are engaging in standardization activities with
      in addition to its environmental benefits, our environmental                external organizations. the revenue generated by the environ-
      portfolio enables us to compete successfully in attractive mar-             mental portfolio is recognized in accordance with revenue rec-
      kets and generate profitable growth. in fiscal 2013, revenue                ognition policies as described in     note 2 in   d.6 notes to

      from continuing operations from the environmental portfolio                 consolidated financial statements .

      amounted to €32.3 billion, which accounted for 43% of our rev-
      enue from continuing operations in this fiscal year. this reve-             c.8.7.2 governance –
      nue includes revenue from newly developed and additionally                  processes and definitions
      qualified elements, and excludes revenue from elements that                 the qualification of environmental portfolio elements as well
      no longer fulfill our qualifications.                                       as their respective reporting is based on defined processes and
                                                                                  criteria. in principle, any product, system, solution or service
      in fiscal 2010, we set ourselves a revenue target for the envi-             of siemens’ continuing operations may qualify for the environ-
      ronmental portfolio within the one siemens framework: to ex-                mental portfolio. the business portfolio of siemens’ continu-
      ceed €40 billion in revenue from the environmental portfolio                ing operations is reviewed annually regarding the qualification




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance            155    c.    combined ­management report
218
                                                  156    c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                  173    c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                  179    c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                  192    c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                  204    c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

of environmental portfolio elements based on the criteria de-                                additionally, a criterion for the healthcare sector is an envi-
scribed below. this covers the inclusion of newly developed                                  ronmental impact reduction in terms of noise, radiation or
elements as well as the integration of additionally qualified el-                            total weight of at least 25% compared to the baseline.
ements where evidence of fulfillment of the qualification crite-
ria was not available in prior reporting periods. for additional-                        c.8.7.4 baseline methods
ly qualified environmental portfolio elements, we report their                           energy efficiency, annual customer reduction of carbon diox-
prior-year revenue and prior-year contribution to reducing                               ide and environmental impact are all assessed by a comparison
­customer carbon dioxide emissions on a comparable basis.                                with a reference solution (baseline). there are three different
 ­elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria are                         options for the reference solution: before-after comparison,
  ­excluded from our environmental portfolio.                                            comparison with a reference technology or comparison with
                                                                                         the installed base. the baselines are reviewed annually and, if
prior to inclusion in the environmental portfolio, potential new                         necessary, adjusted, such as when statistical data on the in-
environmental portfolio elements have to undergo a multilevel                            stalled base is updated because of technical innovations or
internal evaluation process. our sustainability board annually                           regulatory changes. the calculation of the reduction of carbon
acknowledges changes in the composition of the environmen-                               dioxide emissions is based on a comparison for every relevant
tal portfolio. a further task of the sustainability board is to                          environmental portfolio element with a baseline. for this cal-
­discuss potential concerns of stakeholders with regard to the                           culation, we focus on those elements that have a material im-
 inclusion or deletion of certain technologies in the environ-                           pact on the overall carbon dioxide emissions reduction. for
 mental portfolio.                                                                       some emission reduction calculations, the baseline reference
                                                                                         for the installed base is determined using known global emis-
c.8.7.3 criteria for inclusion                                                           sion factors such as those for power production. the baselines
of environmental portfolio elements                                                      used for our calculations are mainly based on data of the inter-
an environmental portfolio element can be a product, a sys-                              national energy agency (iea) for gross power production and
tem, a solution or a service as defined above. furthermore, a                            for grid losses, on data from the intergovernmental panel on
core component of a system or solution may qualify as an                                 climate change (ipcc) for fuel-based emission factors, and our
­environmental portfolio element if the component provided by                            own assessments of power production efficiency. for consis-
 siemens is key to enabling environmental benefits resulting                             tency reasons, we generally apply global emission factors for
 from the system’s or solution’s overall application. to qualify                         calculating emission reductions.
 for inclusion in the environmental portfolio, an element must
 meet one of the selection criteria described below, which are                           c.8.7.5 reporting estimates
 energy efficiency, renewable energy or environmental technol-                           the inclusion of elements in the environmental portfolio is
 ogies. products, systems, solutions and services with planned                           based on criteria, methodologies and assumptions that other
 application in military use or nuclear power are not included in                        companies and other stakeholders may view differently. fac-
 the environmental portfolio.                                                            tors that may cause differences, among others, are: choice of
                                                                                         applicable baseline methodology, application of global emis-
>> energy efficiency: the criteria for energy efficiency are an                          sion factors that may be different from local conditions, use
   improvement in energy efficiency of 20% or more during the                            patterns at customers that may be different from standard use
   customer use phase compared to the applicable baseline, or                            patterns used for carbon dioxide abatement calculations and
   a reduction of at least 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide                         expert estimates if no other data is available.
   equivalents per reporting period in the customer use phase.
   examples of elements that meet the energy efficiency crite-                           to date, there is no applicable international standard that ap-
   rion are combined cycle power plants and intelligent build-                           plies across companies for qualifying products, systems, solu-
   ing technology systems.                                                               tions and services for environmental and climate protection, or
>> renewable energy: this criterion covers technologies in                               for compiling and calculating the respective revenue and the
   the field of renewable energy sources such as wind turbines                           quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions attributable to
   or smart grid applications and their respective core compo-                           such products, systems, solutions and services. accordingly,
   nents.                                                                                revenue from our environmental portfolio and the reduction of
>> environmental technologies: this criterion is related to                              our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be
   water and wastewater treatment, air pollution control,                                comparable with similar information reported by other compa-
   waste reduction, recycling, e-car infrastructure and its                              nies. we report the annual carbon dioxide emissions reduction
   core components. it also includes the siemens consulting                              in the period of installation of the siemens environmental
   ­service which analyzes customers’ environmental impact.                              portfolio ­element. the period of installation will be determined




                                                                                                                253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                219
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      by ­milestones or based on estimated construction periods.                  the environmental protection management system requires
      this may differ from the timing of revenue recognition. fur-                that our relevant production and office sites must implement
      thermore, we subject revenue from our environmental portfo-                 an environmental management system which fulfills the re-
      lio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide               quirements of the internationally recognized iso 14001 stan-
      emissions to internal documentation and review requirements                 dard and also our own internal standard, known as “specifica-
      that are less sophisticated than those applicable to our finan-             tions on environmentally compatible product and system de-
      cial information. we may change our policies for recognizing                sign.” this internal standard defines requirements to reduce
      revenue from our environmental portfolio and the reduction of               the environmental impact of our products and systems during
      our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future                the production, use and disposal phase and is an integral part
      without prior notice.                                                       of our business processes. the management system includes a
                                                                                  number of effective and complementary environmental pro-
      as in previous years, we again commissioned an independent                  grams as well as a set of siemens-wide environmental targets.
      accounting firm with a limited assurance engagement to re-                  we conduct regular internal reviews of our environmental per-
      view the reported results for our environmental portfolio for               formance and progress, in order to create a cycle of continual
      fiscal 2013. this review was conducted in accordance with the               improvement.
      international standard on assurance engagements (isae)
      3000, assurance engagements other than audits or reviews                    our commitment to continual improvement led to two envi-
      of historical financial information. nothing came to the atten-             ronmental protection programs in fiscal 2012: “serve the envi-
      tion of the independent accounting firm that would cause                    ronment” for industrial environmental protection and “product
      them to believe that the section siemens environmental port-                eco excellence” for product-related environmental protection.
      folio of the environmental portfolio report – containing the                they are designed to improve energy and resource efficiency,
      revenue generated by the environmental portfolio and the an-                to fulfill growing international requirements with regard to en-
      nual customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions attribut-               vironmental protection, to increase customer benefits, and to
      able to it – has not been prepared, in all material respects, in            proactively strengthen our position as a sustainable company.
      accordance with the defined reporting principles.                           based on centralized recorded environmental data, we focus
                                                                                  our improvement efforts on the product-related and industrial
                                                                                  environmental protection requirements that need to be met.
      c.8.8 environmental performance
                                                                                  c.8.8.2 industrial environmental protection
             indicators 1                                                         our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on opti-
                                                 year ended september 30,         mizing energy and resource efficiency at our sites. with the
                                                        2013           2012       “serve the environment” program we are committed to the
       energy efficiency improvement                                              following siemens-wide main targets:
       compared to baseline in fiscal 2010              4%              8%
       waste efficiency improvement
                                                                                  >> to continue our systematic effort to improve energy
       compared to baseline in fiscal 2010              4%              7%
                                                                                     ­efficiency, and thereby achieve corresponding improvement
       waste for disposal reduction
       compared to baseline in fiscal 2010              7%              8%            in our carbon dioxide efficiency;
       carbon dioxide emission efficiency                                         >> to improve the waste efficiency each year by 1% until 2014;
       improvement compared to baseline                                               and
       in fiscal 2010                                   13%            13%
                                                                                  >> to reduce waste for disposal each year by 1% until 2014.

             1 continuing operations.
                                                                                  furthermore, siemens continues with the water risk manage-
                                                                                  ment approach we developed in fiscal 2012. in locations where
      c.8.8.1 environmental protection                                            there are particular water risks (for example as a result of arid-
      to meet today ’s global ecological challenges responsibly,                  ity, high waste-water loads or poorly developed technical infra-
      siemens has a comprehensive ehs (environmental protection,                  structure), the local sites need to define targets matched to lo-
      health management and safety) management system. the                        cal conditions and, in meeting those targets, effectively reduce
      process requirements of this management system help our op-                 risks and negative impacts on the environment. finally, our
      erating units comply with applicable laws, regulations and                  “serve the environment” program also addresses air pollution
      customer requirements, satisfy our corporate requirements                   by seeking alternative solutions for any ozone-depleting sub-
      properly and achieve our siemens-wide environmental targets.                stances still in legally permissible use. the generation of




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance            155    c.    combined ­management report
220
                                                  156    c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                  173    c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                  179    c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                  192    c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                  204    c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

“­ balance sheets” for ozone-depleting solvents – even those we                             tal risks posed by these substances themselves and in the
 use in quantities below statutory minimum thresholds – is one                              manufacture, use and disposal of products containing them.
 of our measures for reducing air pollution. we measure prog-                               we strive for an improved basis for assessing the environ-
 ress toward achieving our “serve the environment” program                                  mental impact of our products, and ensuring that our cus-
 targets by aggregating the results of measures implemented                                 tomers’ requirements in the respective target markets are
 locally at our sites.                                                                      met. this also supports closing material cycles (cradle to cra-
                                                                                            dle) which is becoming an increasingly important topic as
we calculate our performance indicators for all office and pro-                             global market demands.
duction sites of environmental relevance using environmental                             >> to develop a methodology for better assessing risks such as
data gathered quarterly. we calculate environmental perfor-                                 environmental, toxicological, and future availability risks as-
mance on a portfolio-adjusted basis. this approach enables us                               sociated with used substances and materials. the results are
to survey and compare our environmental performance over                                    the basis for substitution decisions within product develop-
time, regardless of acquisitions and disposals. we use a single                             ment. we have developed the methodology and will roll it
indicator which incorporates weighted calculations related to                               out as part of the environmental program. we intend to veri-
the primary fuels consumed in generating the energy used at                                 fy the potential of the methodology using pilot projects.
our sites. this indicator takes into account the amount of ener-                         >> to establish a harmonized procedure for determining the
gy used to extract, convert and distribute the fuels consumed.                              “ecological footprint” of our products whose coverage we
fossil energy sources receive a higher primary energy factor                                want to further increase. in order to determine and evaluate
than renewable energy sources. siemens sites can accordingly                                the “ecological footprint” of our products and systems, we
increase their energy efficiency and reduce their impact on                                 have adopted the requirements of international life-cycle as-
natural resources by strategically adjusting their choice of en-                            sessment (lca) standards iso 14040 and iso 14044. the as-
ergy sources.                                                                               sessment results are the basis of our environmental product
                                                                                            declarations (epd) which our customers rely on for reducing
we achieved the targets we set ourselves in fiscal 2013. due to                             their own environmental impact. 
the weaker business we were unable to maintain the level of
energy and waste efficiency reached in fiscal 2012. by imple-
menting several measures for waste disposal reduction and                                c.8.9 employees
reasonable energy procurement, the waste disposal ratio and
co2 efficiency were almost maintained at the level of fiscal 2012.                               indicators 1

                                                                                                                                                        year ended september 30,
c.8.8.3 product-related                                                                                                                                       2013              2012
environmental ­protection                                                                  employee turnover rate 2                                        10.8%             10.7%
the major focus of product-related environmental protection is                             female employees in management positions
                                                                                           (percentage of all management positions) 3                      15.6%             15.3%
to improve the overall environmental performance of our prod-
                                                                                           expenses for continuing education
ucts and systems. we define mandatory requirements in our
                                                                                           (in millions of €) 4                                               265               283
internal environmental standard to reduce the environmental
                                                                                           expenses per employee for
impact of our products and systems during the product devel-                               continuing education (in €) 4                                      670               693
opment, production, use and disposal phases. the “product
eco excellence” program supports our businesses to fulfill                                       1 continuing and discontinued operations.
these requirements. additionally, the program aims to better                                     2 employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary
                                                                                                    exits from siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
prepare the operating units for future regulatory and customer
                                                                                                 3 employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary
requirements, to strengthen environmental communication,                                            ­responsibility, plus project managers.

and to broaden environmental awareness among our employ-                                         4 without travel expenses.

ees. the main elements of the program are:
                                                                                         excellent employees are one of siemens’ vital strengths. they
>> being committed to continuously improve transparency re-                              have made siemens what it is today and their expertise, capa-
   garding declarable substances, particularly in purchased                              bilities and high level of engagement are laying the foundation
   parts and components. to gain transparency, we provide a                              for our future success. to stay competitive, we need to contin-
   list of declarable substances (lods), comprising substances                           uously win and retain the best and brightest employees world-
   that are restricted in use due to regional or application-spe-                        wide. as an employer of choice, we empower our diverse and
   cific regulations, or due to potential health and environmen-                         engaged people worldwide with a high-performance culture,




                                                                                                                        253    d.    consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                        357    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                       221
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      encourage life-long learning and development, offer an attrac-                     the heterogeneous professional qualifications require offer-
      tive working environment and ensure occupational health and                        ings for early learning opportunities for the group age 35 or
      safety.                                                                            below. based on a common approach, we are encouraging the
                                                                                         exchange of proven practices between countries and are fos-
             employees by segments as of september 30, 2013                              tering leadership awareness around collaboration in cross-gen-
             (in thousands) 1
                                                                                         eration teams.

      energy: 84 (23%)                                               other: 35 (10%)
                                                                                         c.8.9.1 diversity
                                                                                         as a global player, the vast and diverse range of our employ-
                                                                   financial services:   ees’ capabilities, experience and qualifications forms a sub-
                                                                               3 (1%)
      healthcare: 52 (14%)                     362                                       stantial competitive advantage, and supports our value pro­
                                                                                         position as an employer.

                                                             infrastructure & cities:
      industry: 100 (28%)                                                 90 (25%)       the global diversity office coordinates strategies, measures
                                                                                         and programs across siemens following these principles:

             1   continuing operations.
                                                                                         >> we want to have the best person for every position,
             employees by regions as of september 30, 2013                               >> we want to provide opportunities for diversity of experience
             (in thousands) 1                                                               and interaction, and
                                                                                         >> we want to achieve diversity of thinking across our company.
                                                         asia, australia: 64 (18%)

      europe, c.i.s.,2 africa,                               therein china: 32 (9%)
                                                                                         diversity networks and programs – our various global diver-
      middle east: 220 (61%)                                                             sity networks promote and discuss diversity topics across the
                                               362
      therein germany: 118 (33%)                                americas: 78 (22%)       company. these groups and programs include the global
                                                             therein u.s.: 53 (15%)      leadership organization of women (glow), diversity ambas-
                                                                                         sador and gene, our generations network to foster cross-gen-
                                                                                         eration exchange. in addition, we have over 120 local employ-
                                                                                         ee networks worldwide with employees actively engaged in
             1   continuing operations.
                                                                                         diversity-related programs and activities.
             2   commonwealth of independent states.


                                                                                         diversity scorecard – to measure our progress in the area of
      siemens believes that employee engagement is a key driver for                      diversity, we have a scorecard of five parameters, which we
      sustainable company performance. an engaged workforce                              track yearly and compare to prior years: these five parameters
      drives innovation, growth and profitability. since 2010, the                       include professional knowledge, diversity at all levels, compo-
      siemens global engagement survey has been seen as an im-                           sition of our top talent pool, culture and branding, and experi-
      portant management tool. moving forward, the engagement                            ence mix.
      survey will be conducted on a biennial basis to allow more
      time to set measures and to follow-up on improvements.                             diversity in management – we’ve developed our manage-
                                                                                         ment recruitment processes to ensure that the preliminary se-
      demographic change, lifelong employability and cross-genera-                       lection of candidates reflects the diversity of our customers
      tion collaboration are siemens’ key challenges to be mastered,                     and employees at all levels and in all regions. for example, the
      and we see differences between regions and labor markets. to                       percentage of women in management at siemens globally has
      remain an employer of choice, we are taking appropriate ac-                        nearly doubled since fiscal 2002 to 15.6%.
      tion based on local needs. for example, with the proportion of
      employees older than 55 continuously rising in europe and the                      work-life integration – a growing number of employees seek
      u.s., supporting employability of our experienced employees                        more flexibility in how they balance work with the rest of their
      and ensuring knowledge transfer are important measures. on                         lives, for example, childcare responsibilities. at many of our
      the other hand, this age group makes up just 3% of the work-                       ­locations worldwide, we now provide options for flexible work
      force in asia with 58% of the workforce age 35 or below. here                       schedules, part-time work and telecommuting. at the same




       92   a.    to our shareholders
      117   b.    corporate ­governance                155    c.      combined ­management report
222
                                                       156    c.1     business and ­economic environment      207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                       173    c.2     financial performance system            209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                       179    c.3     results of operations                   210   c.8   sustainability
                                                       192    c.4     financial position                      227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                       204    c.5     net assets position                                                      ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                          ­associated material o

time, particularly in germany, we are expanding the availabili-                          cal 2013, we introduced new programs for customer services
ty of childcare options near the company sites, such as nurser-                          and quality management in projects. the siemens leadership
ies, daycare centers and children’s after-school centers – tak-                          excellence programs prepare leaders at the highest levels of
ing local conditions into account.                                                       the organization for their future responsibilities.

c.8.9.2 talent acquisition                                                               siemens continues to be one of germany ’s largest providers of
and employee development                                                                 professional education for secondary school graduates (7,000
attracting, contacting, hiring, promoting and systematically                             places for siemens trainees and 2,800 places for trainees from
developing the best employees worldwide for siemens – that                               other companies). as in previous years, we again made 10% of
is our goal in talent acquisition and employee development.                              our trainee positions available to disadvantaged youths. in ad-
                                                                                         dition, we offered for the second time a professional education
in order to meet our requirements for qualified staff, we attract                        according to the german system, which is benefiting 31 school
new talent to siemens and also work on retaining our existing                            graduates coming from twelve european countries.
workforce for the long term. to attract new talents, siemens
has a wide array of programs in place: with the siemens ad-                              c.8.9.4 siemens equity culture
vanced program, for example, we attract highly-qualified                                 siemens established its first employee share program in ger-
bachelor graduates to become future technology experts for                               many as early as 1969. building on this successful program in
the company. the siemens graduate program (sgp), on the                                  germany, siemens decided in 2008 to extend employee and
other hand, prepares talented graduates for future manage-                               management participation. today, siemens offers approxi-
ment tasks within the company.                                                           mately 95% of its employees in 60 countries the opportunity to
                                                                                         acquire siemens shares with the company ’s financial support.
the performance management process (pmp) helps leaders and                               the share matching plan is based on a simple principle: em-
employees determine clear personal goals and share the feed-                             ployees participating in the plan will receive one siemens
back necessary to achieve them. the process also supports us                             share without payment of consideration (matching share) for
in setting compensation, providing professional development                              every three siemens shares bought and continuously held
opportunities and identifying talents throughout the company.                            over a period of three years. only condition: the employee still
to reflect the focus on high-performance within siemens, our                             needs to be employed by siemens. the main idea of the plan
compensation system for our top executives and senior man-                               has always been to make stock ownership available to employ-
agement worldwide includes a variable component.                                         ees at all income levels.

c.8.9.3 learning and continuing education                                                we are convinced that empowering employees with shares
we encourage our employees at all locations to develop their                             motivates them to assume greater responsibilities and helps
qualifications and expertise. in fiscal 2013, we invested around                         them identify more closely with the company they work for – a
€265 million for continuing education (without travel expens-                            fundamental prerequisite for the sustainable development of
es), which equals about €670 per employee. the expenses in-                              siemens.
clude courses and training programs both for individual em-
ployees and for entire company units.                                                    c.8.9.5 employee rights and relations
                                                                                         to employee representatives
siemens learning campus and siemens leadership excel-                                    fair-minded collaboration among company management, em-
lence, two corporate-level organizations, are responsible for                            ployees and employee representatives plays a central role at
implementing the global learning portfolio: siemens learning                             siemens. as one of the largest corporate employers in ger­
campus offers regional learning opportunities to employees in                            many and worldwide, we are committed to our social respon-
all countries, ranging from courses for employees and manag-                             sibility and respect and uphold the fundamental rights of our
ers, through tailored training programs and services for                                 employees – which already apply worldwide and are firmly
groups, to solutions for entire organizations. siemens core                              anchored in our business conduct guidelines. underscoring
learning programs promote the systematic development of                                  this commitment, siemens, the siemens central works coun-
our employees and are tailored to the daily business challeng-                           cil, the german trade union ig metall and the global ­industrial
es faced by employees in specific areas such as sales, project                           union industriall have signed an international framework
management, procurement, development or production. in fis-                              agreement on the principles of corporate r­ esponsibility.




                                                                                                              253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                              357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                              223
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.8.9.6 occupational safety                                                to learn from positive examples and to change attitudes and
      and health management                                                      behavior, supporting our goal of sustainable development by
      occupational safety and health management are key elements                 taking ambitious action.
      of our company ’s sustainable strategy and an integral part of
      our business processes. we therefore develop central projects              in fiscal 2013 the overall number of fatalities was lower than in
      and processes that are then applied locally in conjunction with            fiscal 2012. we attribute that to the numerous and consequent
      programs that are individually adapted to the respective busi-             actions and specific initiated projects. an implemented pro-
      ness activity. occupational safety and health management are               cess for the assessment of suppliers is supporting these activi-
      an integral part of our business conduct guidelines, our inter-            ties. furthermore supply chain management and sectors have
      nal monitoring systems, and our risk management and inter-                 developed collaborative plans to improve the ehs profile of
      nal control systems. in addition, occupational safety is part of           suppliers. regrettably, we report five work-related fatalities of
      an international framework agreement between siemens ag,                   siemens employees and ten work-related fatalities of contrac-
      the central works council of siemens ag, ig metall and the                 tors in fiscal 2013. in the previous year there were four fatali-
      global union industriall.                                                  ties involving siemens employees and 15 involving contractors.

      promote a culture of safety – in the past, occupational safety             promoting health – siemens has established a high standard
      was often characterized by a focus on technical protective                 of occupational health and safety to avoid work-related health
      measures, an approach which achieved considerable success.                 risks and promote employees’ health with a sustainable ap-
      we are convinced, however, that further improvement can be                 proach. we help our employees assume responsibility for their
      achieved only through an actively practiced occupational safe-             own personal behavior in health-related matters, and support
      ty culture and optimum working conditions – in every country               health-promoting general conditions within the company. we
      and for all siemens employees as well as those of our contrac-             promote the physical, mental and social well-being of our em-
      tor partners. both as a company and as individuals we are re-              ployees through a range of activities governing the five topics
      sponsible for ensuring that the working environment at                     of healthy work environment, psychosocial well-being, physi-
      siemens is safe at all times and for every employee. at present,           cal activity, healthy nutrition and medical care.
      local best practices exist which we can build on. we will
      achieve sustainability, however, only through a global and                 we also defined requirements for a siemens health management
      consistent approach.                                                       system (hms) which provides a siemens-wide approach to con-
                                                                                 trolling health management in a systematic and sustainable
      our customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities expect                 manner. company units can revert to it if they want to integrate
      high safety standards from us. safe behavior is governed not               health in the organizational structure and working processes.
      only by complying with laws, regulations and procedures, but
      also by the personal values of managers and employees.
      therefore, siemens launched the zero harm culture @ siemens                c.8.10 compliance
      program in fiscal 2012 to improve our safety performance. it
      contains three principles:                                                         indicators 1

                                                                                                                                                year ended september 30,
      >> zero incidents – it is achievable.                                                                                                           2013             2012
      >> health and safety – no compromises!                                       inquiries submitted to the
      >> we take care of each other!                                              ask us help desk                                                   416            1,009
                                                                                   compliance cases reported                                          908              830
                                                                                   disciplinary sanctions                                             305              266
      we always start by analyzing the current status and the safety
                                                                                    therein warnings                                                  188              173
      situation locally to get an overview of the needs for improve-
                                                                                    therein dismissals                                                  75                  73
      ment and further activities. involving the management at a
                                                                                    therein other 2                                                     42                  20
      very early stage guarantees the importance and sustainability
      of the program. global sharing of best practice and exchange
                                                                                         1 continuing and discontinued operations.
      of experience ensures further sustainable progress. our aim is
                                                                                         2 includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements,
                                                                                            transfer and suspension.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance            155   c.    combined ­management report
224
                                                  156   c.1   business and ­economic environment                207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                  173   c.2   financial performance system                      209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                  179   c.3   results of operations                             210   c.8   sustainability
                                                  192   c.4   financial position                                227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                  204   c.5   net assets position                                                                ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                            ­associated material o

the siemens business conduct guidelines provide the ethical                               on december 9, 2009, siemens launched a global us$100 mil-
and legal framework within which we conduct our business ac-                              lion siemens integrity initiative to support organizations and
tivities. our compliance system aims to ensure that all our world-                        projects that fight corruption and fraud through collective
wide business practices remain within this framework as well as                          ­action, education and training. this initiative is part of the
in compliance with applicable laws. to serve this purpose, our                            world bank siemens ag comprehensive settlement of july 2,
compliance system includes three pillars: prevent, detect and re-                         2009. the status of the 31 projects funded within the first
spond. we are continuously working on further strengthening                               funding round with a total contractual funding volume of
compliance in the company and to continue our efforts in com-                             us$37.7 million was presented to the world bank in march
bating corruption, together with other market participants and                            2013. on june 27, 2013, siemens started the second funding
governmental organizations (collective action).                                           round; it is intended to fund up to 25 projects with a total fund-
                                                                                          ing volume of up to us$30.0 million.
the compliance risk assessment (cra) process – in use as of
fiscal 2012 – requires the ceos and managers in the company                              on october 12, 2012, the company received the year four re-
to systematically determine and assess the compliance risks to                           port from the compliance monitor dr. theo waigel, whom
their units together with the responsible compliance officer                             siemens had engaged as part of the settlement reached with
on an annual basis. these analyses have been performed for all                           the u.s. securities and exchange commission (sec) and the
operating units of the company in fiscal 2013 and have been in-                          u.s. department of justice (doj) in december 2008. the moni-
corporated into the compliance risk analysis at group level                              torship has ended after the full implementation of all monitor
which aims to determine systematic and globally recurring com-                           recommendations as was set forth in the settlement with the
pliance risks to the company as promptly as possible. as well as                         u.s. authorities four years after the settlement date on decem-
the cra results, this analysis of the overall compliance risk at                         ber 15, 2012.
group level takes into account, for example, the assessment of
compliance controls and results of case-related investigations.                          we have a system of four compliance priorities to further de-
relevant risks are reported to the siemens enterprise risk                               velop and improve our compliance system:
management (erm) and measures to reduce the risks are
drawn up and implemented.                                                                >> stand for integrity: our aim is to further encourage business
                                                                                            management responsibility for compliance and to continue
the ask us help desk encourages our employees to ask their                                  promoting responsible business practices in our markets
compliance-related questions. employees submitted 416 inqui-                                with collective action and the siemens integrity initiative.
ries to the help desk in fiscal 2013. we believe the decline from                        >> committed to business: we want to leverage the compliance
1,009 inquiries in fiscal 2012 is due to improvements made in                               system to support sustainable growth and as a competitive
our processes and to increasing knowledge and understanding                                 advantage.
of compliance policies and processes among siemens employ-                               >> manage risk & assurance: we continue to develop the com-
ees. furthermore, all employees can pose questions directly to                              pliance risk management and to provide reliable assurance
the compliance officer responsible for their unit.                                          for our business entities.
                                                                                         >> focus on efficiency: we focus on increasing the efficiency of
the tell us help desk and the company ’s ombudsman are two                                  compliance operations and collaboration.
secured reporting channels that can be used by our employees
and external stakeholders to report violations of external and                           these priorities have guided our activities in fiscal 2013. these
internal rules. these reports are passed on to our compliance                            included the compliance risk assessment covering all siemens
organization. furthermore, possible misbehavior may also be                              operating units, the further implementation of the anti-trust
reported directly, via the managing board or via supervisors to                          compliance program and measures to improve the efficiency
the compliance organization, particularly to the compliance                              of compliance within the company. furthermore we have in-
officers in our individual company units. our employees regu-                            troduced a new type of in-person compliance training focusing
larly make use of this reporting channel. as a consequence, we                           on strengthening the responsibility and leadership by example
have decided to report the total number of compliance cases                              of our managers for compliance.
requiring further inquiries or investigations reported through
all mentioned reporting channels from fiscal 2013 (fy 2013:
908; previous fiscal: 830).




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               225
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      due to the progress made with improving the efficiency of
      compliance and the decision to allocate the responsibility for
      data privacy to the compliance organization, we have updated
      the compliance priorities effective from fiscal 2014 as follows:

             compliance priorities effective fy 2014


                                                                         compliance priorities




                 stand for integrity             committed to business                        manage risk & assurance               responsibility for data privacy

       our aim is to support business        we want to foster trustful collabo-          we continue to provide business           we will assume new responsibili-
       leadership in its responsibilities    ration between the compliance                with the appropriate level of             ties in data privacy.
       for compliance and to execute the     organization and business as well            assurance within our compliance
       collective action strategy focused    as strengthen the market and                 system.
       on tangible business benefits.        ­customer focus of compliance.




      these compliance priorities will guide our activities for fiscal                  >> social: projects in this area aim to bring about a systematic
      2014.                                                                                and lasting improvement in people’s living conditions. in
                                                                                           ­addition, we provide urgent humanitarian relief, including
                                                                                            ­financial and technical assistance after natural disasters.
      c.8.11 corporate citizenship                                                      >> environment: we want to make an effective contribution
                                                                                             ­
                                                                                             towards protecting the environment, particularly through
      siemens is committed to providing long-term benefits to the so-                        our core competencies, and raise environmental awareness
      cieties in which we operate, through corporate citizenship ac-                         among younger generations.
      tivities. these activities can take a variety of forms ranging from               >> arts and culture: we support arts and culture because a so-
      philanthropic disaster relief to more strategic shared value or                        ciety ’s cultural heritage is a key aspect of its identity.
      inclusive business approaches like our mobile clinics in india.
                                                                                        the siemens stiftung – the siemens stiftung wants to em-
      the responsibility for choosing and carrying out charitable ac-                   power people to actively contribute towards solutions to social
      tivities lies with the local units in each country. this ensures                  challenges. it focuses on holistic, non-business-related, trans-
      that we provide support where it is needed most. in doing so,                     ferable projects and models in sub-saharan africa, latin amer-
      we apply high management standards and strategically focus                        ica and europe (with a particular emphasis on germany).
      our corporate citizenship activities in areas where our compa-
      ny competencies, resources and employee volunteering can                          established in 2008 with a capital of €390 million, siemens
      make a meaningful difference:                                                     stiftung is a nonprofit foundation under german civil law. it
                                                                                        complements siemens’ corporate citizenship activities and co-
      >> education and science: our goal is to maintain a continuous                    operates with the other five corporate foundations established
         dialogue with young people and to identify and foster talent                   by the company in argentina, brazil, columbia, the united
         from an early age on. we support educational and research                      states and france.
         activities particularly in natural sciences, engineering and
         healthcare.




       92   a.    to our shareholders
      117   b.    corporate ­governance                  155   c.    combined ­management report
226
                                                         156   c.1   business and ­economic environment          207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                         173   c.2   financial performance system                209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                         179   c.3   results of operations                       210   c.8   sustainability
                                                         192   c.4   financial position                          227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                         204   c.5   net assets position                                                          ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                             ­associated material o

c.9  report on expected developments
      and associated material opportunities and risks

c.9.1 report on expected developments                                                    monetary policy is very expansionary given the good shape of
                                                                                         the german economy. hence we expect the country ’s gdp to
c.9.1.1 worldwide economy                                                                grow 1.8% in 2014, a full percentage point more than in the
in 2014 we expect global gdp growth to accelerate moderately                             whole euro zone. gdp for the region europe, c.i.s., africa and
to 3.2% (using our own calculations based on ihs global in-                              middle east is expected to expand 2.1% in 2014. we expect val-
sight forecasts). unlike in recent years, we expect growth in                            ue-added manufacturing to show nearly the same growth rate,
industrialized countries to pick up more strongly than in                                while fixed investment shows stronger growth of 3.3%.
emerging markets. gdp in industrialized countries is expected
to increase 2.0%, which is 0.9 percentage points more than in                            as with the “fiscal cliff” situation last year, gdp development in
2013. main drivers of the anticipated acceleration are the                               the americas will depend on the handling of the u.s. federal
strengthening of the u.s. economy; stabilization in european                             budget and debt ceiling. in the months leading up to october
countries that are strongly affected by the sovereign debt cri-                          1, 2013 the political parties for a long time failed to reach
sis; less drag from fiscal consolidation policies; and the contin-                       agreements on these issues. accordingly, the government had
uation of accommodative monetary policies. gdp in the                                    to shut down many of its services for 16 days. even more worri-
emerging countries is forecast to expand 5.3%, which is 0.7                              some was the potential that the u.s. would have to default on
percentage points more than in 2013. downside risks include a                            certain government bonds if the debt ceiling were not raised.
renewed escalation of the federal budget stalemate in the u.s.                           although these consequences were averted due to an agree-
at the beginning of calendar 2014; a resurgence of the euro cri-                         ment at the last moment, the solution of the underlying prob-
sis; and an intensification of balance-of-payments problems                              lems were only postponed. the agreement allows the govern-
and exchange rate devaluations in some emerging countries                                ment to stay open until mid-january and the debt ceiling to be
(e.g. india, indonesia) which could spread more widely. in ad-                           raised only until february 2014. before these deadlines, the
dition, poor execution of u.s. central bank “tapering” of its ex-                        parties have agreed to develop a budget plan for the next ten
pansive monetary policy could exacerbate capital flight from                             years. for u.s. and global gdp growth to continue their posi-
emerging markets and add additional stress for these coun-                               tive development in 2014, it is essential that permanent agree-
tries. although downside risks are not negligible, they can be                           ments can be reached without further uncertainties. assum-
contained through responsible political action. hence we be-                             ing such an outcome, the outlook for the u.s. economy is posi-
lieve that the upside potential for 2014 gdp growth dominates                            tive. indeed economic activity was already regaining speed in
the outlook. increasing economic activity is expected to sup-                            2013, which was supported by a recovering real estate sector,
port investment spending, production and value added in the                              higher household wealth and improving bank lending condi-
manufacturing sector, all of which were dampened by political                            tions. with monetary conditions remaining favorable, real
and economic uncertainty and lack of demand in the last                                  ­estate and business investment should pick up in 2014 and
few years. therefore, for the global economy we expect fixed                              contribute to accelerating gdp growth. in brazil, we expect the
investment to grow 5.2% in 2014, and value-added manu­                                    current reacceleration of growth to reach a moderate pace in
facturing 4.0%.                                                                           2014, contributing positively to economic dynamics for latin
                                                                                          america. in the americas region overall, fixed investment
for europe the most severe problem is the unsustainable high                              spending is expected to grow 5.1% in 2014, faster than gdp and
unemployment in the countries most affected by the sover-                                 value-added manufacturing which are expected to expand
eign debt crisis. besides causing political uncertainties it weighs                       2.7% and 2.9%, respectively, in 2014.
heavily on private consumption and investment activity. how-
ever, structural reforms to regain lost competitiveness seem to                          as in recent years, asia, australia leads the other world re-
bear fruit, particularly since the spring quarter of 2013. labor                         gions in the rate of gdp growth. in china, recent data on eco-
costs are falling and export performance is improving. for ex-                           nomic activity suggest a continuation of the modest reacceler-
ample, surveys of consumer and business sentiment for the                                ation which started in mid-2013, supplemented in 2014 by a
euro zone recently hit two-year highs. but even as financial in-                         small government stimulus program. we expect gdp in china
stitutions and private households reduce their debt levels and                           to grow roughly 8% in 2014. the government’s actions in the
governments keep on balancing their budgets, growth is ex-                               past demonstrated its commitment to provide mild stimulus if
pected to remain subdued for a longer period of time. a nota-                            annual growth appears to be falling below 7.5%. several down-
ble exception is germany. the country ’s unemployment rate is                            side risks remain for the next year. first, the government’s ef-
on a very low level historically, incomes are rising, the housing                        forts to rebalance growth away from investment toward con-
market is gaining momentum after years of stagnation, and                                sumption might fail and curb economic activity too strongly.




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               227
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      second, risks in the financial sector remain, in particular in               techniques. we expect growth in fossil power generation mar-
      shadow banks, due to high indebtedness of households and                     kets to be fueled by moderately growing demand for large gas
      municipalities. however, both risks should be manageable                     power plants, following a low level of demand in fiscal 2013.
      which leaves room for the modest recovery to continue. in con-               we believe that the observed trend towards larger and more
      trast, difficulties in the indian economy are more severe. inter-            efficient generation units is going to continue. on a regional
      national capital flows have reversed, heading out of the coun-               basis, growth is expected to come primarily from the u.s. and
      try, and caused a continuing depreciation of the rupee. togeth-              the middle east, while demand in europe and asia remains rel-
      er with the inflation rate already on a high level the central bank          atively stable compared to fiscal 2013. political developments
      was forced to tighten monetary policy although economic activ-               in the middle east and economic instability in europe continue
      ity slowed considerably in 2013. hence, restrictive financial con-           to pose a downside risk. growth in the division’s industrial
      ditions and unresolved supply-side restrictions (e.g. heavily reg-           power generation markets is expected to come from small-
      ulated product and factor markets and an insufficient infrastruc-            scale combined-cycle power plants. we believe that oil and gas
      ture) weigh on growth in the near term. nevertheless, due                    markets will be fueled by the growing compression and solu-
      mainly to increasing momentum in china and japan, we expect                  tions businesses. compression markets are expected to grow
      gdp growth for the asia, australia region to increase to roughly             moderately year-over-year, especially in russia and the middle
      5% in 2014. we expect fixed investments and value-added man-                 east. we expect growth in the solutions market in north amer-
      ufacturing to expand even more at roughly 6% each.                           ica, the middle east and in parts of western europe.

      all in all, we anticipate that global economic activity should im-           markets served by our wind power division are expected to be
      prove in 2014. while the risk balance looks better than last year,           stronger in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013. we believe
      which included the threat of a partial break-up of the euro zone             growth will come from the continued pick-up of the offshore
      with possible ramifications for world financial markets, signifi-            market and continued moderate growth in the onshore market.
      cant risks remain for the world economy. assuming u.s. politi-               potential changes in regulatory frameworks in key markets such
      cal parties achieve lasting solutions for the federal debt and               as germany and the u.k. could limit growth in the offshore mar-
      budget, we do not see comparable high-impact risks at the mo-                ket. we expect the onshore market in fiscal 2014 to be especially
      ment that could endanger global growth prospects. favorable                  strong in the u.s., where investors are expected to initiate new
      monetary conditions and a significant backlog in investment                  projects in order to capture the benefits of tax incentives before
      spending provide a solid basis for the global economy in 2014.               they expire. this is expected to more than offset slightly declin-
                                                                                   ing onshore markets in western europe, north-east asia, the
      c.9.1.2 market development                                                   middle east and africa. we expect overall stability in the asia,
      in fiscal year 2014, we expect energy sector markets to contin-              australia region. we also expect intense local competition par-
      ue on a moderate growth path, including slightly stronger                    ticularly in china, which is the largest ­national wind market in
      markets for all sector businesses compared to fiscal 2013. gas-              the world. further growth in china is supported by ambitious
      fired power plants and wind-farms (both onshore and off-                     government targets for renewable energy. but because most of
      shore) are expected to show the most growth.                                 this market has low technical ­requirements, only a fraction of it
                                                                                   can be addressed by the wind power division.
      effective with the beginning of fiscal 2014, the fossil power
      generation division and the oil & gas division were combined                 the markets of our power transmission division are also ex-
      into a single division, power generation. within the markets                 pected to grow slightly compared to fiscal 2013. while trans-
      served by the power generation division, we overall expect                   former markets are expected to remain stable, we believe the
      gas-fired power generation to grow more strongly than coal-                  markets for high-voltage products and transmission solutions
      fired power generation due to various factors. one is the                    markets will be moderately stronger. growth in transmission
      ­increased need for highly flexible peaking and intermediate                 solutions is expected to come mainly from the middle east and
       duty, such as to compensate for the fluctuating power genera-               the u.s. (for high-voltage, direct current electric power trans-
       tion associated with renewable energy sources such as sun                   mission systems and flexible alternating current power trans-
       and wind. stricter carbon emission regulations will also favor              mission system) and from north-west europe (for grid access).
      natural gas over coal. the general drivers for market growth
      are expected to remain in place: economic growth and the                     in fiscal 2014, we expect continued moderate growth in the
       increasing need to replace older, mainly coal-fired units in
       ­                                                                           markets served by our healthcare sector. we expect emerging
       ­
       industrialized countries. growing environmental awareness                   markets to outgrow markets in industrialized economies, as
       increases the demand for environmentally friendly technolo-                 healthcare systems in the latter countries address cost pres-
       gies, such as highly efficient power plants and co2 reduction               sures and governments continue to address high sovereign




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
228
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

debt levels, particularly in large parts of europe. industrialized                       ­invest to increase efficiency and productivity along their entire
countries – especially those more reliant on government health-                          value chain. metals technologies markets are expected to de-
care expenditures – are expected to continue to focus on im-                              cline year-over-year.
proving the efficiency of healthcare and on slowing the growth
of healthcare spending, thus driving demand for cost-efficient                           on a geographic basis, the strongest growth for industry is ex-
and high-throughput products and solutions. as a result of u.s.                          pected to come from asia and the americas. the asian markets
healthcare reform, we expect a small but increasing share of                             are dominated by the economic development of china which
healthcare spending being linked to medical outcomes, in an                              is undergoing a transformation from an in­      vestment-driven
­attempt to drive efficiency and curtail costs. in emerging mar-                         market towards a more consumption-driven market. while this
 kets, we expect continued strong demand, in particular for                              transition presents longer-term opportunities, overcapacities
 ­entry-level products and solutions, as these countries build up                        and structural barriers to reform in the near-term limit the
  their healthcare infrastructure to provide their populations with                      pace of expansion and modernization in china’s manufactur-
  affordable access to modern medical technology, including in                           ing sector. growth in the americas is heavily influenced by de-
  rural areas. rising disposable income of private households also                       velopments in the u.s., which are uncertain due to political,
  contributes to growing demand for healthcare solutions in                              regulatory and economic factors. the downturn in industrial
  these markets. growth in the asia, australia region is expected                        markets in europe appears to be coming to an end, and cus-
  to be driven by double-digit growth rates in china, in an increas-                     tomer capital expenditures are expected to stabilize according-
  ingly competitive environment with international and local ven-                        ly. central and eastern europe should show some growth as
  dors. we expect that growth in the americas will be supported                          the ­current level of industrial investment still offers potential
  by moderate growth in the u.s., in a market characterized by                           for expansion. within europe, we expect only modest industri-
  continuing implementation of healthcare reform, consolidation                          al investment in germany, which is strongly dependent on the
  among providers and increasing alignment between hospitals                             development of its main export markets, such as china, the
  and ambulatory care providers. we expect the overall market for                        u.s. and other european countries.
  the europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east region to recover only
  slightly, particularly due to ongoing austerity programs in                            in fiscal 2014, the short-cycle manufacturing markets served
  southern europe. for the healthcare market overall, we anti­                           by our industry automation division are expected to benefit
  cipate that the trends towards entry-level solutions, higher                           from stabilizing demand, following de-stocking by customers
  ­efficiency and focus on patient outcomes will continue.                               in fiscal 2013. overall we do not expect recovery in the markets
                                                                                         for our short-cycle businesses until late in fiscal 2014. we an-
following a stabilization at the end of fiscal 2013, we expect                           ticipate that the market for industrial it will grow faster than
some of industry sector’s markets to show signs of recovery in                           the division’s markets overall.
the second half of fiscal 2014. we assume that the recovery
will be stronger for process automation solutions than for dis-                          the long-cycle industry markets served by the drive technol-
crete automation. overall, we expect markets served by our                               ogies division are expected to grow more slowly or decline,
industry sector to grow slightly in fiscal 2014 year-over-year.                          such as in the mining and oil and gas industries where cus-
for the sector’s industry-specific markets, we anticipate slight                         tomers are expected to postpone or cancel new projects due to
growth in consumer-related industries such as pharmaceuti-                               lower raw material prices. markets in the pulp and paper in-
cals, chemicals and food and beverages, and also in the ma-                              dustry are expected to decline.
chine building and infrastructure industries. the automotive
markets are anticipated to continue to grow in fiscal 2014, but                           we expect worldwide markets for solutions provided by the
at a slower pace than in fiscal 2013. within the pharmaceutical                          i­ nfrastructure & cities sector to grow moderately in fiscal
industry, we expect demand to be driven by customer invest-                               2014. we expect this growth to stem largely from rail markets,
ments in increasing production. within the chemicals indus-                               driven by large contract awards. we further expect market
try, we expect growth in petrochemicals and basic chemicals                               growth for the sector overall to begin to benefit from a recov-
in emerging markets. within the food and beverage industry,                               ery in the nonresidential construction markets towards the
we anticipate the highest growth rates coming from emerging                               end of fiscal 2014. in contrast, we anticipate that markets for
markets. we believe that demand within the machine building                               power grid solutions and products will show little or no growth
industry will benefit from the continuing trend toward integra-                           compared to fiscal 2013.
tion of product design and product lifecycle management.
within the automotive industry, we expect growth to come                                 markets served by the transportation & logistics business
predominately from major manufacturers and suppliers in the                              are expected to grow moderately in fiscal 2014, fueled by large
larger emerging countries and the u.s., as these companies                               contract awards as mentioned above, particularly in the u.k.,




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               229
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      saudi arabia and south africa. even so, we expect that market               c.9.1.3 siemens group
      growth will be driven by the asia, australia region. overall, the           we are basing our outlook for the siemens group and its seg-
      markets for products, solutions and services for transportation             ments on the above-mentioned expectations regarding the
      and logistics are driven largely by public spending and hence               overall economic situation and specific market conditions for
      are independent of short-term economic trends. in some coun-                the next fiscal year.
      tries, especially within emerging markets, we see a tendency
      to prefer local suppliers. in some european countries we are                 we are exposed to currency translation effects, involving the
      observing a trend of customers trying to increase competition                us$, british £ and currencies of emerging markets such as
      by using multi-supplier strategies. we expect continued strong               ­china, india and brazil. we expect volatility in global currency
      demand for metro and light rail as well as for technologies to                markets to continue in fiscal 2014. given that siemens is a net
      reduce energy consumption and operating costs. the locomo-                    exporter from the eurozone to the rest of the world, a weak
      tive market is still held back by austerity programs in a number              euro is principally favorable for our business and a strong
      of countries. we expect that innovative value-added services                  ­euro is principally unfavorable. during fiscal 2013, the average
      offerings, such as it and remote services, will support market                 exchange rate conversion for our large volume of us$-denom-
      growth in coming years.                                                        inated revenue was us$1.31 per euro. in the latter part of the
                                                                                     fiscal year, the euro increased in strength. as of the end of the
      markets served by our power grid solutions & products busi-                  fiscal year, the us$ exchange rate was us$1.35 per euro.
      ness are expected to show little or no growth in fiscal 2014.                through adaptation of our production facilities during the
      while we anticipate a general recovery of the non-residential                past, we have improved our natural hedge on a global basis.
      construction market, particularly in the u.s., there is usually a            in addition, we have already systematically addressed the
      lag time of three to four quarters before orders for electrical                ­remaining currency risk in our export business activities for
      installations materialize and our business begins to participate                ­
                                                                                      fiscal 2014, see      note 31 in     d.6 notes to consolidated

      in such growth. as for industrial markets, we expect that the               ­f inancial statements . we expect these steps to help to limit

      development will be burdened by declining investments in the                    effects on income related to currency in fiscal 2014.
      mining industry. similarly, investments by power supply com-
      panies are anticipated to be held back by regulatory restric-               we expect “siemens 2014,” our company-wide program for im-
      tions in some countries, and by austerity programs in others,               proving profitability in our sectors through cost reduction,
      particularly in europe. as at transportation & logistics we see             strengthening core activities, improving our go-to-market set-
      a tendency in some countries, especially within emerging                    up, optimizing our corporate infrastructure, and simplifying
      countries, to prefer local suppliers.                                       our governance will contribute positively to growth in net
                                                                                  ­income and corresponding basic earnings per share (eps).
      the markets for our building technologies division are ex-
      pected to grow moderately in fiscal 2014. while we expect solid             this outlook excludes impacts related to legal and regulatory
      growth in non-residential construction, there is – similar to               matters.
      power grid solutions & products – usually a lag time of three to
      four quarters before the division begins to participate in such             revenue growth
      growth. on a regional basis, growth is expected to be driven                we expect that in fiscal 2014 revenue on an organic basis, ex-
                                                              ­ urope,
      by the asia, australia and the americas regions. within e                   cluding currency translation and portfolio effects, will remain
      c.i.s., africa, middle east we anticipate growth in the middle              near the prior-year level, as markets for siemens overall are ex-
      east, while the development in europe is expected to be chal-               pected to remain challenging in the next fiscal year. these
      lenging due to the economic situation in some southern and                  challenges are expected to be particularly evident in short-cy-
      western european countries and weak public investment due                   cle businesses, where we do not anticipate a recovery until late
      to austerity programs.                                                      in fiscal 2014. on the other hand, we expect a stabilizing effect
                                                                                  on revenue from conversion of our order backlog (defined as
      sfs’ business is geared to the siemens sectors and their mar-               the sum of order backlogs of our sectors) which totaled €100
      kets and therefore provides support to the operating business               billion as of september 30, 2013. from this backlog we expect
      of siemens. as such sfs is, among other factors, influenced                 to convert approximately €40 billion of past orders into current
      by the overall business development of the markets served by                revenue in the next fiscal year. within this amount for fiscal
      the four sectors.                                                           2014, we expect approximately €21 billion in revenue conver-
                                                                                  sion from the €54 billion backlog of the energy sector, approx-




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance             155   c.    combined ­management report
230
                                                   156   c.1   business and ­economic environment        207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                   173   c.2   financial performance system              209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                   179   c.3   results of operations                     210   c.8   sustainability
                                                   192   c.4   financial position                        227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                   204   c.5   net assets position                                                        ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

imately €10 billion in revenue conversion from the €29 billion                           stantial productivity benefits from the program, continued
backlog of infrastructure & cities, approximately €6 billion in                          progress with reducing costs in our supply chain, and a more
revenue conversion from the €10 billion backlog of industry                              favorable revenue mix in some businesses due to portfolio
and approximately €3 billion in revenue conversion from the                              measures and selective ramp-down of lower-margin activities.
€7 billion backlog of healthcare. for fiscal 2014, we expect that
orders will continue to exceed revenue, leading to a book-to-                            we expect total sectors profit in fiscal 2014 to benefit from
bill ratio above 1.                                                                      implementation of “siemens 2014.” at the end of fiscal 2013, we
                                                                                         were ahead of schedule with regard to identifying and
overall, we assume growth in revenue from emerging mar-                                  ­implementing the measures within the program aimed at sus-
kets, which accounted for 34% of total revenue in fiscal 2013,                            tainably improving our productivity. as a result, we took the
to be largely offset by lower revenue from industrialized                                 great majority of the charges we expected under the program
countries.                                                                                within fiscal 2013, totaling €1.3 billion. with only some supple-
                                                                                          mental charges for the program in fiscal 2014, and with most of
in fiscal 2010, we set ourselves the goal to increase revenue                             the program’s productivity gains expected to materialize during
from our environmental portfolio to more than €40 billion in                              the year, we expect a substantial increase in total sectors profit
fiscal 2014. in fiscal 2013, revenue from our environmental                               year-over-year, and that total sectors profit margin will rise to
portfolio was €32 billion. due to recent and ongoing portfolio                            9.5% to 10.5%. we assume that all sectors will contribute to the
changes, particularly including the spin-off of osram and the                             total sectors profit margin improvement, except for healthcare
disposal of our water technologies business unit, it is no lon-                           which already achieved a very high margin level in fiscal 2013
ger likely that we will achieve this target purely with our own                           due to execution of its “agenda 2013” initiative. we assume that
operations by the end of fiscal 2014. siemens’ strategic focus                            pricing pressure will be modestly higher for healthcare and en-
on technologies for energy efficiency and climate and environ-                            ergy than for infrastructure & cities and ­industry.
mental protection will nevertheless remain in place.
                                                                                         as part of one siemens, our framework for sustainable value
profitability                                                                            creation, we have defined adjusted ebitda margin corridors
for fiscal 2014, we anticipate that basic eps from net income                            for the respective industries of our four sectors, which the sec-
will increase by at least 15% compared to €5.08 in fiscal 2013.                          tors seek to achieve and maintain throughout the entire busi-
this increase is calculated on a base of 843 million shares,                             ness cycle. for energy the margin corridor is 10% to 15%; for
which was the actual number of shares outstanding as of sep-                             healthcare the margin corridor is 15% to 20%; for industry the
tember 30, 2013. we expect that this increase will come pre-                             margin corridor is 11% to 17%; and for infrastructure & cities the
dominantly from growth in net income. in addition, we expect                             margin corridor is 8% to 12%. with anticipated improvements
eps growth to benefit modestly from our previously an-                                   in total sectors profit, we expect that all sectors will be in their
nounced plan to repurchase siemens shares in a volume of up                              respective margin corridors in fiscal 2014, with infrastruc-
to €4 billion within the next up to 24 months.                                           ture & cities reaching the low end of its target range.

our forecast for basic eps growth in fiscal 2014 is based on a                           anticipated improvements within total sectors profit are ex-
number of additional expectations and assumptions. as men-                               pected to be partly offset by results outside the sectors and
tioned above, we forecast organic revenue near the level of fis-                         within discontinued operations. within equity investments
cal 2013, which means we do not expect positive influences on                            we expect profit of approximately €100 million in fiscal 2014. in
profit development from economies of scale. we assume pric-                              fiscal 2013, profit of €396 million benefited strongly from the
ing pressure across our businesses of around 2.5% to 3.0% in                             sale of our stake in nsn.
fiscal 2014, which will also hold back profit development, and
upward pressure on costs from wage inflation of around 4% on                             we expect sfs to continue successfully executing its growth
a global basis. finally, we anticipate that our tax rate in fiscal                       strategy, which drove a higher interest result in fiscal 2013
2014 will be slightly higher, on the assumption that we will                             compared to the prior year. with continued growth in fiscal
generate a greater share of profit in higher-tax jurisdictions. we                       2014, we anticipate profit of sfs to be above the prior-year
expect that these factors will be offset by significant positive                         ­level of €409 million. within one siemens, we set a target
developments, particularly including a steep decline in charges                           range for return on equity or roe (after tax) for sfs of 15% to
compared to fiscal 2013, which included €1.3 billion in impacts                           20%. we expect that sfs will continue to reach this range in
for the “siemens 2014” program. furthermore, we expect sub-                               fiscal 2014.




                                                                                                                253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                231
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      we anticipate that sre will continue with real estate disposals             cash effects. furthermore, for fiscal 2014, we are taking
      depending on market conditions. we expect results from                      ­proceeds from the sale of the nsn stake in fiscal 2013 into
      ­corporate items and pensions in fiscal 2014 to be approximate-             consideration. as in the past, we intend to fund the dividend
       ly a negative €1.0 billion and profit related to eliminations,              ­payout from free cash flow.
       ­corporate treasury and other reconciling items to come in at
        about a negative €200 million.                                            c.9.1.4 overall assessment
                                                                                  we expect our markets to remain challenging in fiscal 2014.
      in the next fiscal year, we expect no material impact on net                our short-cycle businesses are not anticipating a recovery un-
      ­income from discontinued operations. for comparison, discon-               til late in the fiscal year. we expect orders to exceed revenue,
       tinued operations in fiscal 2013 resulted in income of €197 mil-           for a book-to-bill ratio above 1. assuming that revenue on an
       lion, due mainly to osram, which we spun off at the end of                 organic basis remains level year-over-year, we expect basic
       fiscal 2013.                                                               earnings per share (net income) for fiscal 2014 to grow by at
                                                                                  least 15% from €5.08 in fiscal 2013.
      capital efficiency
      our most important financial goal is capital efficiency, which               this outlook is based on shares outstanding of 843 million as
      we measure in terms of adjusted return on capital employed                   of september 30, 2013. furthermore, it excludes impacts relat-
      (roce (adjusted)). due mainly to our expectations regarding                  ed to legal and regulatory matters. overall, the actual develop-
      the development of income from continuing operations, we                     ment for siemens and its segments may vary, positively or
      expect roce (adjusted) for continuing operations to return to                negatively, from our expectations due to the risks and oppor-
      our target range of 15% to 20% in fiscal 2014. for comparison,               tunities described below. see       c.9.3 risks as well as  c.9.4

      roce (adjusted) for continuing operations was 13.8% in fiscal               ­o pportunities . this report on expected developments should

      2013. for sfs, we set a target range for return on equity or roe             be read in conjunction with      c.12 notes and forward-looking

      (after tax) for sfs of 15% to 20%. as mentioned above, we ex-                statements .

      pect that sfs will continue to reach this range in fiscal 2014.

      capital structure                                                           c.9.2 risk management
      for the medium-term we set a target for our capital structure,
      defined as the ratio of adjusted industrial net debt to adjusted            c.9.2.1 basic principles
      ebitda. we seek to achieve a ratio in the range of 0.5 to 1.0. in           of the risk management
      fiscal 2013, we made progress toward this target, and we anti­              our risk management policy stems from a philosophy of pur-
      cipate that we will approach the lower end of the range at the              suing sustainable growth and creating economic value while
      end of fiscal 2014. we expect this to be strongly supported by a            avoiding and managing inappropriate risks. as risk manage-
      planned buyback of siemens ag shares worth up to €4.0 bil-                  ment is an integral part of how we plan and execute our busi-
      lion over the next up to 24 months as mentioned above.                      ness strategies, our risk management policy is set by the man-
                                                                                  aging board. our organizational and accountability structure
      in the area of investment planning, we expect to continue our               as of september 30, 2013 requires each of the respective man-
      investing activities, such as to safeguard market share and                 agements of our sectors, sfs, sre, regions and corporate units
      competitive advantages based on technological innovation. we                to implement risk management programs that are tailored to
      will also continue investing in extending our capacities for de-            their specific industries and responsibilities, while being con-
      signing, manufacturing and marketing new solutions and for                  sistent with the overall policy established by the managing
      the necessary replacements of these fixed assets. with regard               board.
      to capital expenditures for continuing operations, we expect a
      substantial increase in fiscal 2014 spending year-over-year.                c.9.2.2 enterprise risk management process
                                                                                  we have implemented and coordinated a set of risk manage-
      dividend and share buybacks                                                 ment and control systems which support us in the early recog-
      we intend to continue providing an attractive return to share-              nition of developments jeopardizing the continuity of our busi-
      holders. therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a                ness. the most important of these systems include our enter-
      dividend payout which, combined with outlays during the fis-                prise-wide processes for strategic planning and management
      cal year for publicly announced share buybacks, results in a                reporting. strategic planning is intended to support us in con-
      sum representing 40% to 60% of net income, which for this                   sidering potential risks well in advance of major business deci-
      purpose we may adjust to exclude selected exceptional non-                  sions, while management reporting is intended to enable us to




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance             155   c.    combined ­management report
232
                                                   156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                   173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                   179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                   192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                   204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

monitor such risks more closely as our business ­progresses.                             first step, assuming responsibility for a specific risk or opportu-
our internal auditors regularly review the adequacy and effec-                           nity involves deciding upon one of our general response strat-
tiveness of our risk management system. accordingly, if defi-                            egies, or a combination of them. our general response strate-
cits are detected, it is possible to adopt appropriate measures                          gies with respect to risks are avoidance, transfer, reduction or
for their elimination. this coordination of processes and proce-                         acceptance of the relevant risk. our general response strate-
dures is intended to help ensure that the managing board and                             gies with respect to opportunities are partial or complete reali-
the supervisory board are fully informed about significant risks                         zation of the relevant opportunity. in a second step, responsi-
in a timely manner.                                                                      bility for a risk or opportunity also involves the development,
                                                                                         initiation and monitoring of appropriate response measures
risk management at siemens is based on a comprehensive, in-                              corresponding to the chosen response strategy. these re-
teractive and management-oriented enterprise risk manage-                                sponse measures have to be specifically tailored to allow for
ment (erm) approach that is integrated into the organization                             effective risk management. accordingly, we have developed a
and that addresses both risks and opportunities. our erm ap-                             variety of response measures with different characteristics:
proach is based on the worldwide accepted enterprise risk                                for example, we mitigate the risk of fluctuations in currency
management – integrated framework (2004) developed by the                                and interest rates by engaging in hedging activities. regarding
committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway com-                               our long-term projects, systematic and comprehensive project
mission (coso). the framework connects the erm process                                   management with standardized project milestones, including
with our financial reporting process and is closely integrated                           provisional acceptances during project execution, and comple-
in our internal control system. it considers a company ’s strate-                        mented by clearly defined approval processes assists us in iden-
gy, the efficiency and effectiveness of its business operations,                         tifying and responding to project risks at an early stage, even
the reliability of its financial reporting as well as compliance                         before entering the bidding phase. furthermore, we maintain
with relevant laws and regulations to be equally important.                              appropriate insurance levels for potential cases of damage and
                                                                                         liability risks in order to reduce our exposure to such risks and
the erm process aims for early identification and evaluation                             to avoid or minimize potential losses. among others, we ad-
of, and response regarding, risks and opportunities that could                           dress the risk of fluctuations in economic activity and customer
materially affect the achievement of our strategic, operational,                         demand by closely monitoring the macroeconomic conditions
financial and compliance objectives. our erm is based on a net                           and developments in relevant industries, and by adjusting ca-
risk approach, covering risks and opportunities remaining af-                            pacity and implementing cost-reduction measures in a timely
ter the execution of existing control measures. in order to pro-                         and consistent manner, if deemed necessary.
vide a comprehensive view on our business activities, risks
and opportunities are identified in a structured way combining                           c.9.2.3 risk management organization
elements of both top-down and bottom-up approaches. risks                                and responsibilities
and opportunities are generally reported on a quarterly basis.                           to oversee the erm process and to further drive the integra-
this regular reporting process is complemented by an ad-hoc                              tion and harmonization of existing control activities to align
reporting process that aims to escalate critical issues in a time-                       with legal and operational requirements, the managing board
ly manner. relevant risks and opportunities are prioritized in                           established a corporate risk and internal control department,
terms of impact and likelihood, considering different perspec-                           headed by the chief risk & internal control officer, and a
tives, including business objectives, reputation and regulatory                          corporate risk and internal control committee (cric). the
                                                                                         ­
matters. the bottom-up identification and prioritization pro-                            cric obtains risk and opportunity information from the risk
cess is supported by workshops with the respective manage-                               committees established at the sector, sfs, sre and regional
ment of the sector, sfs, sre, regional and corporate unit orga-                          level as well as from the heads of corporate units, which then
nizations. this top-down element ensures that potential new                              forms the basis for the evaluation of the company-wide risk
risks and opportunities are discussed at the management level                            and opportunity situation. the cric reports to and supports
and are included in the subsequent reporting process, if found                           the managing board on matters relating to the implementa-
to be relevant. reported risks and opportunities are analyzed                            tion, operation and oversight of the risk and internal control
regarding potential cumulative effects and are aggregated at                             system and assists the managing board in reporting to the au-
sector, sfs, sre, regional and corporate level.                                          dit committee of the supervisory board. the cric is composed
                                                                                         of the chief risk & internal control officer, as the chairperson,
responsibilities are assigned for all relevant risks and opportu-                        and members of senior management such as the sector and
nities with the hierarchical level of responsibility depending                           sfs ceos, the cfo of siemens, and selected heads of corpo-
on the significance of the respective risk or opportunity. in a                          rate units.




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               233
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

             operational and organizational structure of the enterprise risk management (erm) process as of september 30, 2013


                                           managing board                                                                                     audit committee
                  overall responsibility for the risk and internal control system.                                          oversees the effectiveness of the risk management and
                               defines risk policy and erm strategy.                                                                        internal control system.


                   corporate risk & internal control committee (cric)                                                              chief risk & internal control officer
                 reports to and supports the managing board in matters ­relating                                 chairman of the cric. defines and monitors application of erm strategy,
                 to the implementation, operation and oversight of an effective                                 ­ olicy and methodology. consolidates siemens wide risk and opportunity
                                                                                                                p
                                risk and internal control system.                                                                           profile for cric.




                          sector risk & internal                                              cluster risk & internal
                          control committees                                                   control committees
                       oversee the risk and internal control activities for their area of responsibility and provide
                                 the ­management with information necessary to report to the cric.


                          sector management 1                                                cluster management                                           heads of corporate units
                                    implement erm system and ensure management and monitoring of risks and opportunities in their respective organization.


             1     the term “sector” in this chart comprises sectors, sfs and sre.




      c.9.3 risks                                                                                         zone. future economic developments and, in consequence,
                                                                                                          the speed of economic growth and the sustainability of our
      below we describe the risks that could have a material adverse                                      market environment are dependent upon the evolution of a
      effect on our business, financial condition (including effects                                      number of global and local factors such as the crisis in the
      on assets, liabilities and cash flows), results of operations and                                   credit markets, economic crises arising from sovereign debt
      reputation. the order in which the risks are presented in each                                      overruns, and government budget consolidation measures re-
      of the four categories reflects the currently estimated relative                                    lated thereto, reduced levels of capital expenditures, declining
      exposure for siemens associated with these risks and thus                                           consumer and business confidence, increasing unemployment
      ­provides an indication of the risks’ current importance to us.                                     in certain countries, fluctuating commodity prices, bankrupt-
       nevertheless, risks currently considered to entail a lower risk                                    cies, natural disasters, political crises, imminent social unrest
       exposure could potentially result in a higher negative impact                                      and other challenges.
       on siemens than risks currently considered to entail a higher
       risk exposure. additional risks not known to us or that we                                         in light of the latest economic developments, the high degree
       ­
       currently consider immaterial may also negatively impact                                           of unemployment in certain countries, the level of public debt
       our business operations. unless otherwise stated, the risks                                        in the united states, in japan and in countries affected by the
       ­described below relate to all of our segments.                                                    european sovereign debt crisis, uncertainties with respect to
                                                                                                          the stability of certain emerging markets, e.g. india or indone-
      c.9.3.1 strategic risks                                                                             sia, the risk of an escalation of the budgetary quarrels in the
      our business, financial condition and results of operations                                         united states and the potential impact of budget consolidation
      may be affected by the uncertainties of economic and                                                measures by governments around the world, the bases for our
      ­
      political conditions, particularly in the current macro­                                            expectations relating to the overall economic situation and
      economic environment, which is characterized by a high                                              specific conditions in markets relevant to us are subject to con-
      degree of uncertainty and modest recovery as well as the                                            siderable uncertainties. in general, due to the significant pro-
      continuing risk of resurgence of crisis in financial markets                                        portion of long-cycle businesses in our sectors and the impor-
      and of renewed global economic downturn: our business                                               tance of long-term contracts for siemens, there is usually a
      environment is influenced by domestic as well as global de-                                         time lag between the development of macroeconomic condi-
      mand, which in turn is influenced by economic conditions. we                                        tions and their impact on our financial results. important ex-
      still see a high degree of volatility in the global financial mar-                                  ceptions include our short-cycle businesses in the industry
      kets, primarily as a result of the ongoing crisis in the euro-                                      sector, particularly those in industry automation and parts of




       92   a.     to our shareholders
      117   b.     corporate ­governance                                  155    c.    combined ­management report
234
                                                                          156    c.1   business and ­economic environment               207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                                          173    c.2   financial performance system                     209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                                          179    c.3   results of operations                            210   c.8   sustainability
                                                                          192    c.4   financial position                               227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                                          204    c.5   net assets position                                                               ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

drive technologies as well as parts of the power grid solu-                              in many of our businesses, we face downward price pressure
tions & products business within the infrastructure & cities sec-                        and we are or could be exposed to market downturns or slower
tor, which are highly sensitive to volatility in market demand.                          growth, which may increase in times of declining investment
if the moderate recovery of macroeconomic conditions stalls                              activities and consumer demand. we face strong competitors,
again and if we are not successful in adapting our production                            some of which are larger and may have greater resources in a
and cost structure to subsequent changes to conditions in the                            given business area, as well as competitors from emerging
markets in which we operate, there can be no assurance that                              markets, which may have a better cost structure. some indus-
we will not experience adverse effects that may be material to                           tries in which we operate are undergoing consolidation, which
our business, financial condition and results of operations. for                         may result in stronger competition and a change in our relative
example, it may become more difficult for our customers to ob-                           market position. certain competitors may be more effective
tain financing and as a result they may modify, delay or cancel                          and faster in capturing available market opportunities. these
plans to purchase our products and services or to execute                                factors alone or in combination may negatively impact our
transactions. furthermore, prices may decline as a result of ad-                         business, financial condition, and results of operations.
verse market conditions to a greater extent than currently an-
ticipated. in addition, contracted payment terms, especially re-                         our business, financial condition and results of operations
garding the level of advance payments by our customers relat-                            may be adversely affected by continued strategic align-
ing to long-term projects, may become less favorable, which                              ments and cost-cutting initiatives: we are in a continuous
could negatively impact our cash flows. additionally, if cus-                            process of strategic alignments and constantly engage in
tomers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or                            cost-cutting initiatives, including ongoing capacity adjustment
securing access to the capital markets, they may not be able to                          measures and structural initiatives. capacity adjustments
pay, or may delay payment of, the amounts they owe us, which                             through consolidation of business activities and manufactur-
may adversely affect our business, financial condition and re-                           ing facilities, and the streamlining of product portfolios are al-
sults of operations.                                                                     so part of these cost reduction efforts. these measures may
                                                                                         not be implemented as planned, may turn out to be less effec-
numerous other factors, such as fluctuations in energy and raw                           tive than anticipated, may only become effective later than
material prices, as well as global political conflicts, including                        ­estimated or may not become effective at all. each of these
those in the middle east, north africa and other regions, con-                            factors alone or in combination may negatively impact our
tinue to impact macroeconomic parameters and the interna-                                 business, financial condition, and results of operations. any
tional capital and credit markets. the uncertainty of economic                            future contribution of these measures to our profitability will
and political conditions can have a material adverse impact on                            be influenced by the actual savings achieved and by our ability
our business, financial condition and results of operations.                              to sustain these ongoing efforts.

our business is affected by a variety of market conditions and                           our business, financial condition and results of operations
regulations. for example, our energy sector is exposed to the                            may be adversely affected by portfolio measures: our strat-
development of global demand for energy and is considerably                              egy includes divesting activities in some business areas and
affected by regulations related to energy and environmental                              strengthening others through portfolio measures, including
policies. our healthcare sector, in turn, is dependent on devel-                         mergers and acquisitions.
opments and regulations in healthcare systems around the
world, particularly in the important u.s. healthcare market.                             with respect to divestments, we may not be able to divest
our industry sector is vulnerable to unfavorable market condi-                           some of our activities as planned, and the divestitures we
tions in certain segments of the automotive and manufac­                                 do carry out could have a negative impact on our business,
turing industries. our infrastructure & cities sector focuses,                           ­financial condition, results of operations and our reputation.
among other things, on business with public authorities                                   for example, we have announced the closure of our solar busi-
around the world and is thus vulnerable to restrictions in                                ness and decided to divest the business activities included in
­public budgets.                                                                          our airport logistics and postal automation business, which as
                                                                                          of september 30, 2013 was part of the infrastructure & cities
we operate in highly competitive markets, which are sub-                                  sector’s mobility and logistics division.
ject to price pressures and rapid changes: the worldwide
markets for our products and solutions are highly competitive                            mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky because of diffi-
in terms of pricing, product and service quality, development                            culties that may arise when integrating people, operations,
and introduction time, customer service and financing terms.                             technologies and products. there can be no assurance that




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               235
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      any of the businesses we acquire can be integrated success­                   ­ urthermore, such investments are inherently risky as we may
                                                                                    f
      fully and as timely as originally planned or that they will per-              not be able to sufficiently influence corporate governance pro-
      form as anticipated once integrated. in addition, we may incur                cesses or business decisions taken by our equity investments,
      significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in con-               other investments and strategic alliances that may have a neg-
      nection with these transactions, including costs related to                   ative effect on our business. in addition, joint ventures bear
      ­integration of acquired businesses. for example, we are cur-                 the risk of difficulties that may arise when integrating people,
         rently engaged in integration activities within the infrastruc-            operations, technologies and products. strategic alliances may
         ture & cities sector’s mobility and logistics division concerning          also pose risks for us because we compete in some business
       the recently acquired rail automation business of invensys                   areas with companies with which we have strategic alliances.
       plc., u.k., and within the industry sector’s industry automa-
       tion division concerning the acquisition of lms international                our businesses must keep pace with technological chang-
       nv, belgium, a leading provider of mechatronic simulation                    es and develop new products and services to remain com-
       solutions. furthermore, portfolio measures may result in addi-               petitive: the markets in which our businesses operate experi-
       tional financing needs and adversely affect our financial lever-             ence rapid and significant changes due to the introduction of
       age and our debt-to-equity ratio. acquisitions may also lead to              innovative technologies. to meet our customers’ needs in
       substantial increases in intangible assets, including goodwill.              these areas, we must continuously design new, and update ex-
       our statements of financial position reflect a significant                   isting products and services, and invest in, and develop new
       amount of intangible assets, including goodwill. among our                   technologies. introducing new products and technologies re-
       businesses, the largest amount of goodwill is allocated to the                    quires a significant commitment to research and development,
       diagnostics division and the imaging & therapy systems divi-                      which in return requires expenditure of considerable financial
         sion of the healthcare sector, and the industry automation                 resources that may not always result in success. our sales and
       ­division of the industry sector. if we were to encounter con-               profitability may suffer if we invest in technologies that do not
        tinuing adverse business developments including negative                    operate, or may not be integrated, as expected or that are not
        ­effects on our revenues, profits or cash, or adverse effects from          accepted in the marketplace as anticipated, or if our products
         an increase in the weighted average cost of capital (wacc) or              or systems are not introduced to the market in a timely man-
         from foreign exchange rate developments, or if we were other-              ner, in particular, compared to our competitors, or become
         wise to perform worse than expected at acquisition activities,             ­obsolete. we constantly apply for new patents and actively
         then these intangible assets, including goodwill, might have                manage our intellectual property portfolio to secure our tech-
         to be written off, which could materially and adversely affect              nological position. however, our patents and other intellectual
         our business, financial condition and results of operations.                property may not prevent competitors from independently
         the likelihood of such adverse business developments increas-               ­developing or selling products and services similar to or dupli-
         es in times of difficult or uncertain macroeconomic conditions.                 cate of ours. there can be no assurance that the resources
                                                                                      ­invested by us to protect our intellectual property will be suffi-
      our business, financial condition and results of operations                        cient or that our intellectual property portfolio will adequately
      may be adversely affected by our equity interests, other                           deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology.
      investments and strategic alliances, particularly in our
      ­                                                                                ­furthermore, in some of our markets, the need to develop and
      segment equity investments: our strategy includes strength-                       introduce new products rapidly in order to capture available
      ening our business interests through joint ventures, associat-                    opportunities may lead to quality problems. our operating re-
      ed companies and strategic alliances. certain of our invest-                      sults depend to a significant extent on our ability to anticipate
      ments are accounted for using the equity method, including,                       and adapt to changes in markets and to reduce the costs of
      among others, bsh and en (renamed to unify after fiscal year                      producing high-quality, new and existing products. among
      end). furthermore we hold other investments, for example                          ­recent technology trends, we carefully estimate the potential
      atos s.a. and osram licht ag. any factors negatively influenc-                     and relevance of cloud computing. we believe that the poten-
      ing the profitability of our equity and other investments, in-                     tial and usage scenarios of this technology vary among our
      cluding negative effects on revenues, profits or cash, could                       products, solutions and services depending on the degree of
      have an adverse effect on our equity pick-up related to these                      information technology utilized. however, we also believe that
      equity interests or may result in a write-off of these invest-                     this trend needs to be monitored closely, because it might bear
      ments. in addition, our business, financial condition and re-                      the potential to change the competitive landscape. any inabili-
      sults of operations could also be adversely affected in connec-                    ty to adapt to the aforementioned factors could have a material
      tion with loans, guarantees or non-compliance with financial                       adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
      covenants related to these equity and other investments.                           of operations.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance               155   c.    combined ­management report
236
                                                     156   c.1   business and ­economic environment        207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                     173   c.2   financial performance system              209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                     179   c.3   results of operations                     210   c.8   sustainability
                                                     192   c.4   financial position                        227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                     204   c.5   net assets position                                                        ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                       ­associated material o

we are subject to changes of regulations, laws and policies                              term contracts that are awarded on a competitive bidding
concerning our products: as a diversified company with glob-                             ­basis. some of these contracts are inherently risky because we
al businesses we are exposed to various product related regu-                            may assume substantially all of the risks associated with com-
lations, laws and policies influencing our processes. recently,                           pleting a project and the post-completion warranty obliga-
some jurisdictions around the world have adapted certain reg-                             tions. for example, we face the risk that we must satisfy tech-
ulations, laws and policies requiring us to extend our recycling                          nical requirements of a project even though we may not have
efforts, limit the sourcing and usage of certain raw materials                            gained experience with those requirements before we win the
and request additional due diligences and disclosures on                                 project. the profit margins realized on fixed-priced contracts
sourcing and usage of the regulated raw materials. in particu-                           may vary from original estimates as a result of changes in
lar, we must comply with u.s. legislation to improve transpar-                           costs and productivity over their term. we sometimes bear the
ency and accountability concerning the sourcing of “conflict                             risk of unanticipated project modifications, shortage of key
minerals” from mines located in the conflict zones of the dem-                           personnel, quality problems, financial difficulties of our cus-
ocratic republic of congo (drc) and its adjoining countries.                             tomers, cost overruns or contractual penalties caused by unex-
the term “conflict minerals” currently encompasses tantalum,                             pected technological problems, unforeseen developments at
tin, tungsten (or their ores) and gold. conflict minerals can be                         the project sites, unforeseen changes or difficulties in the reg-
found in a vast array of products. this u.s. legislation requires                        ulatory or political environment, performance problems with
manufacturers, such as us, to investigate and disclose their                             our suppliers, subcontractors and consortium partners or oth-
use of any conflict minerals originating in the drc or adjoining                         er logistical difficulties. certain of our multi-year contracts also
countries. it also implements guidelines to assist the manufac-                          contain demanding installation and maintenance require-
turer in preventing, by way of performing due diligence in its                           ments in addition to other performance criteria relating to tim-
supply chain, any such sourcing from potentially financing or                            ing, unit cost and compliance with government regulations
benefitting armed groups in this area. we are currently work-                            requirements, which, if not satisfied, could subject us to sub-
ing on an implementation strategy for the above-referenced                               stantial contractual penalties, damages, non-payment and
legislation. since we operate within highly complex value                                contract termination. there can be no assurance that contracts
chains, we are required to undertake a significant due dili-                             and projects, in particular those with long-term duration and
gence process requiring considerable investments of human                                fixed-price calculation, can be completed profitably.
resources and finances in order to comply with the conflict
minerals due diligence and disclosure requirements. if our                               increased it security threats and higher levels of profes-
(sub-) suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with re-                          sionalism in computer crime could pose a risk to our sys-
quested information and to take other steps to ensure that no                            tems, networks, products, solutions and services as well as
conflict minerals, financing or benefitting armed groups in the                          to those of our service providers: our business portfolio in-
drc, are included in minerals or components supplied to us,                               cludes a broad array of systems, networks, products, solutions
we may be forced to disclose information about the use of con-                            and services across our businesses that rely on digital technol-
flict minerals in our supply chain in filings with the sec. in ad-                       ogies. we observe a global increase in it security threats and
dition, since the applicability of the new conflict minerals leg-                        higher levels of professionalism in computer crime, which
islation is limited to companies publicly listed in the u.s., not                        pose a risk to the security of systems and networks and the
all of our competitors are required to comply with this legisla-                         confidentiality, availability and integrity of data. we attempt to
tion or engage in similar efforts to disclose the usage of con-                          mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, in-
flict minerals. if we are unable to achieve sufficient confidence                        cluding employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our
throughout our supply chain, or if any of these risks or similar                         networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and
risks associated with these kinds of regulations, laws and poli-                         ­protective systems such as firewalls and virus scanners. to the
cies were to materialize, our business, financial condition, re-                          extent we employ service providers, such as in the area of it
sults of operations and reputation could be materially adverse-                           infrastructure, we have contractual arrangements in place in
ly affected.                                                                              order to ensure that these risks are reduced in a similar man-
                                                                                          ner. nonetheless, our systems, networks, products, solutions
c.9.3.2 operational risks                                                                 and services, as well as those of our service providers remain
our business, financial condition and results of operations                               potentially vulnerable to attacks. depending on their nature
may be adversely affected by cost overruns or additional                                  and scope, such attacks could potentially lead to the leakage
payment obligations related to the management of our                                      of confidential information, improper use of our systems and
long-term, fixed price or turnkey projects: we perform a                                  networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective
portion of our business, especially large projects, under long-                           products, production downtimes and supply shortages, which




                                                                                                                253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                237
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condi-               s­ upplier that is not able to meet our demand. this risk is par-
      tion, results of operations and reputation.                                  ticularly evident in businesses with a very limited number of
                                                                                   suppliers. shortages and delays could materially harm our
      we may face operational failures and quality problems in                    business. unanticipated increases in the price of components
      our value chain processes: our value chain comprises all                    or raw materials due to market shortages or other reasons
      steps, from research and development to supply chain man-                   could also adversely affect the performance of our sectors.
      agement, production, marketing, sales and services. opera-                  furthermore, we may be exposed to the risk of delays and in-
      tional failures in our value chain processes could result in                terruptions of the supply chain as a consequence of natural
      quality problems or potential product, labor safety, regulatory             disasters in case we are unable to identify alternative sources
      or environmental risks. such risks are particularly present in              of supply or ways of transportation in a timely manner or at
      our sectors in relation to our production and construction fa-              all. a general shortage of materials, components or sub-com-
      cilities, which are located all over the world and have a high              ponents as a result of natural disasters also bears the risk of
      degree of organizational and technological complexity. from                 unforeseeable fluctuations in prices and demand, which
      time to time, some of the products we sell might have quality               might adversely affect our business, financial condition and
      issues resulting from the design or manufacture of such prod-               results of operations.
      ucts or from the software integrated into them. in particular,
      our healthcare sector is subject to requirements of the u.s.                our sectors purchase raw materials including so-called rare-­
      food and drug administration, which require certain efforts                 earth metals, copper, steel, aluminum and oil, which expose
      safeguarding our product quality. if we are not able to comply              them to fluctuations in energy and raw material prices. in re-
      with these requirements, our business, financial condition, re-             cent times, commodities have been subject to volatile markets,
      sults of operations and reputation may be adversely affected.               and such volatility is expected to continue. if we are not able to
                                                                                  compensate for our increased costs or pass them on to cus-
      furthermore, failures on the part of service providers we em-               tomers, price increases could have a material adverse impact
      ploy, such as in the area of it, may have an adverse effect on              on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
      our processes and operations and our ability to meet our com-               in contrast, in times of falling commodity prices, we may not
      mitments to customers or increase our operating costs. any                  fully profit from such price decreases as we attempt to reduce
      operational failures or quality issues could have a material ad-            the risk of rising commodity prices by several means, such as
      verse effect on our business, financial condition, results of op-           long-term contracting or physical and financial hedging. in ad-
      erations and reputation.                                                    dition to price pressure that we may face from our customers
                                                                                  expecting to benefit from falling commodity prices or adverse
      we may face interruption of our supply chain, including                     market conditions, this could also adversely affect our busi-
      the inability of third parties to deliver parts, components                 ness, financial condition and results of operations.
      and services on time, and we may be subject to rising raw
      material prices: our financial performance depends in part on               we are dependent upon hiring, developing and retaining
      reliable and effective supply chain management for compo-                   highly qualified management and technical personnel:
      nents, sub-assemblies and other materials. capacity con-                    competition for highly qualified personnel remains intense in
      straints and supply shortages resulting from ineffective supply             the industries and regions in which our businesses operate. in
      chain management may lead to delays and additional cost. we                 many of our business areas, we intend to expand our business
      rely on third parties to supply us with parts, components and               activities, for which we will need highly skilled employees. our
      services. using third parties to manufacture, assemble and                  future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire,
      test our products reduces our control over manufacturing                    integrate, develop and retain engineers and other qualified
      yields, quality assurance, product delivery schedules and                   personnel. we address this risk with various measures, for ex-
      costs. the third parties that supply us with parts and compo-               ample succession planning, employer branding, retention and
      nents also have other customers and may not have sufficient                 career management. however, there can be no assurance that
      capacity to meet all of their customers’ needs, including ours,             we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining all
      during periods of excess demand. component supply delays                    the highly qualified employees and key personnel needed in
      can affect the performance of our sectors. although we work                 the future, including in appropriate geographic locations, and
      closely with our suppliers to avoid supply-related problems,                any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on
      there can be no assurance that we will not encounter supply                 our business, financial condition, results of operations and
      problems in the future or that we will be able to replace a                 reputation.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance             155   c.    combined ­management report
238
                                                   156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                   173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                   179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                   192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                   204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                    ­associated material o

c.9.3.3 financial risks                                                                  overall cost of funding. the ongoing eurozone sovereign debt
we are exposed to currency risks and interest rate risks:                                crisis continues to have an impact on global capital markets.
we are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates, especially                             the resulting higher risk awareness of governments lead to
between the u.s. dollar and the euro, because a high percent-                            more regulations on the use of financial instruments through
age of our business volume is conducted in the u.s. and as                               (1) the regulation on otc derivatives, central counterparties
­exports from europe. in addition, we are exposed to currency                            and trade repositories (european market infrastructure regu-
 effects involving the currencies of emerging markets, in partic-                        lation) and (2) other similar regulations in other jurisdictions,
 ular the chinese yuan. as a result, a strong euro in relation to                        which may have an impact on the future availability or the
 the u.s. dollar and other currencies could have an adverse                              costs of adequate hedging instruments for the company. it
 ­impact on our revenues and results of operations. certain cur-                         may even lead to further regulation of the financial sector and
  rency risks as well as interest rate risks are hedged on a com-                        the use of financial instruments. such further regulations
  pany-wide basis using derivative financial instruments. de-                            could adversely influence our future possibilities of obtaining
  pending on the development of foreign currency exchange                                debt financing, and / or may significantly increase our refi-
  and interest rates, our hedging activities could have significant                      nancing costs. deteriorating credit quality and / or default of
  effects on our business, financial condition and results of oper-                      business partners may adversely affect our business, financial
  ations. our sectors and financial services (sfs) engage in cur-                        condition and results of operations.
  rency hedging activities which sometimes do not qualify for
  hedge accounting. in addition, our corporate treasury has                              downgrades of our ratings could increase our cost of capi-
  ­interest rate hedging activities which also do not qualify for                        tal and could negatively affect our businesses: our busi-
   hedge accounting, and are subject to changes in interest rates.                       ness, financial condition and results of operations are influ-
   accordingly, exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations may                         enced significantly by the actual and expected performance of
   lead to higher volatility and adverse effects on our business,                        the sectors and sfs, as well as the company ’s portfolio mea-
   financial condition and results of operations. a strengthening                        sures. an actual or expected negative development of our
   of the euro (particularly against the u.s. dollar) may change                         business, financial condition or results of operations could
   our competitive position, as many of our competitors may ben-                         ­result in the deterioration of our credit rating. downgrades by
   efit from having a substantial portion of their costs based in                         rating agencies could increase our cost of capital, may reduce
   weaker currencies, enabling them to offer their products at                            our potential investor base and may negatively affect our busi-
   lower prices.                                                                          ness, financial condition and results of operations.

we are exposed to volatile credit spreads: regarding our                                 our financing activities subject us to various risks, includ-
corporate treasury activities, widening credit spreads due to                            ing credit, interest rate and foreign exchange risk: we pro-
uncertainty and risk aversion in the financial markets might                             vide our customers with various forms of direct and indirect
lead to adverse changes of fair market values of our financial                           ­financing in connection with large projects. we also finance a
assets, in particular concerning our derivative financial                                 large number of customer orders, for example, the leasing of
­instruments. in addition, we see a risk of widening credit                               medical equipment, mainly through sfs. sfs also incurs credit
 spreads leading to increasing refinancing costs if the euro-                             risk by financing third-party equipment or by taking direct or
 zone sovereign debt crisis with its ongoing significant impact                           indirect participation in financings, such as syndicated loans.
 on global financial markets and the european financial sector                            in part, we take a security interest in the assets we finance or
 in particular, continues or even worsens. any such develop-                              we receive additional collateral. our business, financial condi-
 ment could also further increase the costs for buying protec-                            tion and results of operations may be adversely affected if the
 tion against credit risks due to a potential increase of coun-                           credit quality of our customers deteriorates or if they default
 terparty risks.                                                                          on their payment obligation to us, if the value of the assets in
                                                                                          which we have taken a security interest or additional collateral
our future financing via corporate treasury may particu-                                  declines, if interest rates or foreign exchange rates fluctuate,
larly be affected by the uncertainty of economic condi-                                   or if the projects in which we invest are unsuccessful. potential
tions and the development of capital and financial mar-                                   adverse changes in economic conditions could cause a decline
kets: our corporate treasury is responsible for the financing                             in the fair market values of assets, derivative instruments as
of the company. negative developments in the foreign ex-                                  well as collateral, resulting in losses which could have an
change, money or capital markets, such as limited availability                            ­adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of funds (particularly u.s. dollar funds), may increase our                                of operations.




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               239
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      our business, financial condition and results of operations                  regulations, economic sanctions, embargoes or other forms of
      may be adversely affected by several parameters influenc-                    trade restrictions imposed on iran, syria or on other sanc-
      ing the funded status of our pension benefit plans: the                      tioned countries in which we do business may result in a cur-
      funded status of our pension plans may be affected by an in-                 tailment of our existing business in such countries and in
       crease or decrease in the defined benefit obligation (dbo), as              amendments to our policies. we are also aware of initiatives by
       well as by an increase or decrease in the value of plan assets.             institutional investors, such as pension funds or other compa-
      pensions are accounted for in accordance with actuarial valua-               nies, to adopt or consider adopting policies prohibiting invest-
      tions, which rely on statistical and other factors in order to an-           ment in and transactions with, or requiring divestment of in-
      ticipate future events. these factors include key pension plan               terests in entities doing business with iran and other countries
      valuation assumptions such as the discount rate, rate of future              identified as state sponsors of terrorism by the u.s. secretary
      compensation increases and pension progression. actual de-                   of state. it is possible that such initiatives may result in us be-
      velopments may differ from assumptions due to changing                       ing unable to gain or retain investors, customers or suppliers.
      market and economic conditions, thereby resulting in an in-                  in addition, the termination of our activities in sanctioned
       crease or decrease in the dbo. significant movements in finan-              countries may expose us to customer claims and other actions.
       cial markets or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets            our reputation could also suffer due to our activities with
       could result in corresponding increases or decreases in the                 counterparties in or affiliated with these countries. we have
      ­value of plan assets, particularly equity securities. also, chang-          included details of our iran-related activities in       c.3.1.1 or-

       es in pension plan assumptions could affect net periodic pen-               ders and revenue , and are filing a related notice of disclosure

       sion cost. for example, a change in discount rates may result               with the sec. under section 219 of the iran threat reduction
       in changes in the net periodic benefit cost in the following fis-           and syria human rights act of 2012, upon receipt of the notice
       cal year. in order to comply with local pension regulations in              of disclosure by the sec, the sec is required to notify the us
       selected foreign countries, we may face a risk of increasing                president and congress of the filing. the president is then re-
       cash outflows to reduce an underfunding of our pension plans                quired to initiate an investigation into iran-related activities
       in these countries, if any.                                                 disclosed in such notice, and make a determination as to
                                                                                   whether sanctions should be imposed on the filing party.
       for further information on financial risks and financial risk               there is no assurance as to the outcome of any such presiden-
       management, see         note 32 in d.6 notes to consolidated                tial investigation. if the relevant authorities were to impose
      ­f inancial statements .                                                     penalties or sanctions on siemens, such measures could have
                                                                                   a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
      c.9.3.4 compliance risks                                                     and results of operations.
      we are subject to regulatory risks associated with our
      ­international operations: protectionist trade policies and                  we expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to ac-
       changes in the political and regulatory environment in the                  count for an increasing portion of our total revenue, as our
       markets in which we operate, such as import and export con-                 business naturally evolves and as developing nations and re-
       trols, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange               gions around the world increase their demand for our offering.
       controls, could affect our business in several national markets,            emerging market operations involve various risks, including
       impact our sales and profitability and make the repatriation of             civil unrest, health concerns, cultural differences such as em-
       profits difficult, and may expose us to penalties, sanctions and            ployment and business practices, volatility in gross domestic
       reputational damage. in addition, the uncertainty of the legal              product, economic and governmental instability, the potential
       environment in some regions could limit our ability to enforce              for nationalization of private assets and the imposition of ex-
       our rights and subject us to continually increasing costs relat-            change controls. the asian markets, in particular, are import-
       ed to designing and implementing appropriate compliance                     ant for our long-term growth strategy, and our sizeable opera-
       programs and protocols.                                                     tions in china are influenced by a legal system that is still de-
                                                                                   veloping and is subject to change. our growth strategy could
      as a globally operating organization, we conduct business                    be limited by governments supporting local industries. our
      with customers in countries, such as iran, syria and cuba, that              sectors, particularly those that derive their revenue from large
      are subject to increasingly expansive export control regula-                 projects, could be adversely affected if future demand, prices
      tions, embargoes, economic sanctions or other forms of trade                 and gross domestic product in the markets in which those
      restrictions imposed by the u.s., the european union or other                ­sectors operate do not develop as favorably as expected due to
      countries or organizations. new or expanded export control                    such regulatory measures. if any of these risks or similar risks




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
240
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment        207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system              209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                     210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                        227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                        ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                      ­associated material o

associated with our international operations were to material-                           public contracts in case of a conviction for bribery and certain
ize, our business, financial condition and results of operations                         other offences or for other reasons. as described in more detail
could be materially adversely affected.                                                  in     note 29 in     d.6 notes to consolidated financial state-

                                                                                         ments , we and certain of our subsidiaries have in the past been

current and future investigations regarding allegations of                               excluded or currently are excluded from some contracting, in-
public corruption, antitrust violations and other illegal                                cluding with governments, development banks and multilater-
acts could have a material adverse effect on our business,                               al financial institutions, as a result of findings of corruption or
financial condition and results of operations and on our                                 other misconduct. ongoing or potential future investigations
reputation: we engage in a substantial amount of business                                into allegations of corruption or antitrust violations could also
with governments and government-owned enterprises around                                 impair existing relationships with, and our ability to acquire
the world. we also participate in a number of projects funded                            new private sector business partners. for instance, such inves-
by government agencies and intergovernmental and suprana-                                tigations may adversely affect our ability to pursue potentially
tional organizations such as multilateral development banks.                             important strategic projects and transactions, such as strategic
if we are found to have been engaged in public corruption, an-                           alliances, joint ventures or other business combinations, or
titrust violations and other illegal acts, such activities may im-                       could result in the cancellation of certain of our existing con-
pair our ability to do business with these or other organiza-                            tracts and third parties, including our competitors, could initi-
tions. corruption, antitrust and related proceedings may lead                            ate significant third-party litigation.
to criminal and civil fines as well as penalties, sanctions, in-
junctions against future conduct, profit disgorgements, dis-                             in addition, future developments in ongoing and potential fu-
qualifications from directly and indirectly engaging in certain                          ture investigations, such as responding to the requests of gov-
types of business, the loss of business licenses or permits or                           ernmental authorities and cooperating with them, could di-
other restrictions. accordingly, we may be required to record                            vert management’s attention and resources from other issues
material provisions to cover potential liabilities arising in con-                       facing our business. the materialization of any of these risks
nection with such investigations and proceedings, including                              could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
potential tax penalties. moreover, any findings related to pub-                          condition and results of operations and on our reputation.
lic corruption that are not covered by the 2008 and 2009 cor-
ruption charge settlements, which were concluded with amer-                               our business, financial condition and results of operations
ican and german authorities, may endanger our business with                               could suffer as a result of current or future litigation: we
government agencies and intergovernmental and suprana-                                    are subject to numerous risks relating to legal, governmental
tional organizations, further monitors could be appointed to                              and regulatory proceedings to which we are currently a party
review future business practices and we may otherwise be re-                              or to which we may become a party in the future. we routinely
quired to further modify our business practices and our com-                              become subject to legal, governmental and regulatory investi-
pliance program.                                                                          gations and proceedings involving, among other things, re-
                                                                                          quests for arbitration, allegations of improper delivery of
our involvement in ongoing and potential future corruption or                             goods or services, product liability, product defects, quality
antitrust proceedings could damage our reputation and have                                problems, intellectual property infringement, non-compliance
an adverse impact on our ability to compete for business from                             with tax regulations and / or alleged or suspected violations of
public and private sector customers around the world. if we or                            applicable laws. in addition, we may face further claims in con-
our subsidiaries are found to have engaged in certain illegal                             nection with the circumstances that led to the corruption
acts or not to have taken effective steps to address allegations                          charges. for additional information with respect to specific
or findings of corruption or antitrust violations in our busi-                            proceedings, see       note 29 in    d.6 notes to consolidated

ness, this may impair our ability to participate in business with                        ­f inancial statements . there can be no assurance that the re-

governments or intergovernmental organizations and may re-                                sults of these or any other proceedings will not materially
sult in our formal exclusion from such business. even if we are                           harm our business, financial condition and results of opera-
not formally excluded from participating in government busi-                              tions. moreover, even if we ultimately prevail on the merits in
ness, government agencies or intergovernmental or suprana-                                any such proceedings, we may have to incur substantial legal
tional organizations may informally exclude us from tendering                             fees and other costs defending ourselves against the underly-
for or participating in certain contracts. for example, legisla-                          ing allegations. under certain circumstances we record a provi-
tion of member states of the european union could in certain                              sion for risks arising from legal disputes and proceedings. in
cases result in our mandatory or discretionary exclusion from                             addition, we maintain liability insurance for certain legal risks




                                                                                                               253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                               241
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      at levels our management believes are appropriate and consis-                  ed costs of decommissioning facilities for the production of
      tent with industry practice. our insurance policy, however,                    uranium and mixed-oxide fuel elements in hanau, germany,
      does not protect us against reputational damage. moreover,                    as well as a nuclear research and service center in karlstein,
      we may incur losses relating to legal proceedings beyond the                  germany. for further information, see            note 24 in     d.6

      limits, or outside the coverage, of such insurance or exceeding               notes to consolidated financial statements . under certain cir-

      any provisions made for legal proceedings related losses. fi-                 cumstances, we establish provisions for environmental risks.
      nally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to main-                with regard to certain environmental risks, we maintain liabili-
      tain adequate insurance coverage on commercially reasonable                   ty insurance at levels that our management believes are appro-
      terms in the future. each of these risks may have a material                  priate and consistent with industry practice. we may incur
      adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results               ­environmental losses beyond the limits, or outside the cover-
      of operations.                                                                 age, of such insurance, and such losses may have a material
                                                                                     adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
      examinations by tax authorities and changes in tax regula-                     of our operations. in addition, our provisions for environmen-
      tions could adversely affect our business, financial condi-                    tal liabilities may not be sufficient to cover our ultimate losses
      tion and results of operations: we operate in around 190                       or expenditures resulting therefrom.
      countries and therefore are subject to different tax regulations.
      changes in tax law in any of these jurisdictions could result in              c.9.3.5 assessment
      higher tax expense and payments. furthermore, legislative                     of the overall risk situation
      changes could materially impact our tax receivables and liabili-              the most significant challenges have been mentioned first in
      ties as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. in          each of the four categories strategic, operations, financial and
      addition, the uncertain tax environment in some regions could                 compliance with the risks caused by the macroeconomic envi-
      limit our ability to enforce our rights. as a globally operating              ronment currently being our most significant. even though
      organization, we conduct business in countries subject to                     the assessments of individual risk exposures have changed
      complex tax rules, which may be interpreted in different ways.                during fiscal 2013 due to developments in the external envi-
      future interpretations or developments of tax regimes may                     ronment as well as the effects of our own mitigation mea-
      ­affect our business, financial condition and results of opera-               sures, the overall risk situation for siemens did not change sig-
       tions. we are regularly examined by tax authorities in various               nificantly as compared to the prior year. at present, no risks
       jurisdictions.                                                               have been identified that either individually or in combination
                                                                                    could endanger our ability to continue as a going concern. we
      we are subject to environmental and other governmental                        are confident that we can continue to successfully counter the
      regulations: some of the industries in which we operate are                   challenges arising from the risks mentioned above.
      highly regulated. current and future environmental and other
      governmental regulations or changes thereto may require us
      to change the way we run our operations and could result in                   c.9.4 opportunities
      significant increases in our operating or production costs. in
      addition, while we have procedures in place to ensure compli-                 within our comprehensive, interactive and management-ori-
      ance with applicable governmental regulations in the conduct                  ented enterprise risk management (erm) approach that is
      of our business operations, it cannot be excluded that viola-                 ­integrated into the organization and that addresses both risks
      tions of applicable governmental regulations may be caused                     and opportunities, we regularly identify, evaluate and respond
      either by us or by third parties that we contract with, including              to opportunities that present themselves in our various fields
      suppliers or service providers, whose activities may be at-                    of activity. below we describe our most significant opportuni-
      tributed to us. any such violations expose us to the risk of lia-              ties. unless otherwise stated, the opportunities described
      bility, reputational damage or loss of licenses or permits that                ­below relate to all of our segments. the order in which the
      are important to our business operations. in particular, we                     ­opportunities are presented reflects the currently estimated
      could also face liability for damage or remediation for environ-                 relative exposure for siemens associated with these opportu-
      mental contamination at the facilities we design or operate.                     nities and thus provides an indication of the opportunities’
      for example, we are required to bear environmental clean-up                      current importance to us. nevertheless, opportunities current-
      costs mainly related to remediation and environmental protec-                    ly considered to entail a lower opportunity exposure could
      tion liabilities, which have been accrued based on the estimat-                  ­potentially result in a higher positive impact on siemens than




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance               155   c.    combined ­management report
242
                                                     156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                     173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                     179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                     192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                     204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                      ­associated material o

opportunities currently considered to entail a higher opportu-                           to gain market share and enhance our local presence in these
nity exposure. the described opportunities are necessarily not                           strategic growth markets. adding further smart products to
the only ones we encounter. in addition, our assessment of                               our port­folio and developing stronger sales channels would
opportunities is subject to change as our company, our mar-                              enable us to increase our revenues by serving large and
kets and technologies are constantly developing. as a conse-                             fast-growing ­regional markets, where customers may consider
quence, new opportunities may arise, existing opportunities                              price more strongly than product features when making a pur-
may cease to be relevant, or the significance of an opportunity                          chase decision.
may change. generally, opportunities are assessed to the best
of our knowledge, considering certain assumptions, including                               we constantly strive to develop new technologies, new
market development, market potential of technologies or solu-                            products and solutions as well as to improve existing ones:
tions, and anticipated developments in customer demand or                                we i­nvest in new technologies that we expect to meet future
prices, among other things. when opportunities materialize,                              ­demands in accordance with the four strategic megatrends
they may have a lower effect than previously estimated on the                             ­demographic change, urbanization, climate change and glo-
basis of the underlying assumptions. it is also possible that                              balization (for further information see c.1.3.1 global mega-

­opportunities we see today will never materialize. in our view,                           trends ).

 the overall opportunity situation did not change significantly
 as compared to the prior year. two opportunity factors includ-                          localizing value chain activities in low cost countries
 ed in our prior year reporting (“further growth in the area of                          could further improve our cost position: localizing certain
 environment and climate protection” and “utilizing cross col-                           value chain activities, such as procurement, manufacturing,
 laboration among our broad portfolio and global presence to                             maintenance and service in markets such as the bric coun-
 offer more innovative and holistic solutions”) have been incor-                         tries and other emerging markets, as well as the middle east
 porated into our business plans and are therefore not reported                          could enable us to reduce costs and to strengthen our global
 as an erm relevant opportunity any more.                                                competitive position, in particular compared to competitors
                                                                                         based in countries with a more favorable cost structure.
through selective acquisitions, equity investments and
partnerships we constantly strive to strengthen our lead-                                we are in the process of continuously developing and im-
ing technology position, open up additional potential mar-                               plementing initiatives to reduce costs, adjust capacities,
kets or further develop our product portfolio: we constantly                             improve our processes and streamline our portfolio: in an
monitor our current and future markets for opportunities for                             intensified competitive market environment, a competitive
strategic acquisitions, equity investments or partnerships to                            cost structure complements the competitive advantage of be-
complement organic growth. such activities could help us to                              ing innovative. we believe that further improvements in our
strengthen our market position in our existing markets, provide                          cost position strengthen our global competitive position and
access to new markets or complement our technological port-                              secure our market presence against emerging and incumbent
folio in selected areas.                                                                 competitors. for example, we expect to create sustainable val-
                                                                                         ue from productivity measures in the sectors in connection
we particularly see further opportunities in the growth                                  with “siemens 2014,” as mentioned earlier a company-wide
potential of established markets and especially of the
­                                                                                        program supporting our one siemens framework.
emerging markets: it is expected that in coming years emerg-
ing markets will continue to grow significantly faster than in-                          we are realigning our regional organization: as of novem-
dustrialized nations, led by strong growth in the bric coun-                             ber, 2013, following the close of fiscal 2013, we disbanded our
tries brazil, russia, india and china as well as by growth oppor-                        regional cluster organization. following this organizational
tunities in the second wave emerging markets like chile, indo-                           change, we have designated 30 lead countries which are indi-
nesia, mexico, poland or turkey. within one siemens, we want                             vidually responsible for managing a number of other countries
to take measures aimed at continuously increasing our share                              regarding market penetration. each lead country reports di-
of revenue from emerging markets. we believe that develop-                               rectly to the managing board. by implementing this move,
ing the capability to design, manufacture and sell so-called                             siemens intends to intensify its customer access and expand
smart (simple, maintenance-friendly, affordable, reliable, and                           its regional business. we expect that this new setup will fur-
timely-­to-market) products will provide us with opportunities                           ther enhance our local market penetration going forward.




                                                                                                              253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                              357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                              243
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.9.5 significant characteristics                                             relevance and impact on the consolidated financial state-
                                                                                    ments and the combined management report and where
      of the accounting-related internal                                           ­necessary, our financial reporting guidelines and the chart of
      control and risk management system                                            accounts are adjusted accordingly. in quarterly closing letters,
                                                                                    accounting departments of siemens ag and its subsidiaries
      the following discussion describes information required pursu-                are informed about current topics from an accounting and
      ant to section 289 (5) and section 315 (2) no. 5 of the german                closing process perspective and any deadlines that must be
      commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch) and explanatory report.                   met for the respective closing processes.

      the overarching objective of our accounting-related internal                 the base data used in preparing the consolidated financial
      control and risk management system is to ensure that finan-                  statements consists of the closing data reported by the opera-
      cial reporting is conducted in a proper manner such that the                 tions of siemens ag and its subsidiaries, which are derived
      consolidated financial statements and the combined manage-                   from the various accounting records. the preparation of the
      ment report are prepared in accordance with all relevant regu-               closing data of most of our subsidiaries is supported by our
      lations.                                                                     ­
                                                                                   internal global shared services organization. furthermore,
                                                                                   other accounting activities, such as governance and monitor-
      as described in     c.9.2 risk management , our erm approach is              ing related activities, are bundled on regional level. in addi-
      based on the worldwide accepted “enterprise risk manage-                     tion, for some areas requiring specialized know-how such as
      ment – integrated framework” developed by the coso. as one                   valuations relating to post-employment benefits support from
      of the objectives of this framework is reliability of a company ’s           external service providers is obtained and used. the reported
      financial reporting, it also includes an accounting-related per-             closing data is used to prepare the consolidated financial
      spective. the accounting-related internal control system (con-               statements in the consolidation system. the steps necessary
      trol system) implemented by us is based on internal control –                to prepare the consolidated financial statements are subject
      integrated framework (1992), an internationally recognized                   to both manual and automated controls at all levels.
      framework also developed by the coso. the two systems are
      complementary.                                                               the specialist skills required of employees involved in the ac-
                                                                                   counting process are assessed when the employees are initial-
      our management is responsible for establishing and maintain-                 ly selected; thereafter, the employees receive regular training.
      ing adequate internal control over financial reporting. at the               as a fundamental principle, at the different levels, items must
      end of each fiscal year, our management performs an evalua-                  be verified by at least one other person (four eyes principle)
      tion of the effectiveness of its control system, both in design              and specific procedures must be adhered to for the authoriza-
      and operating effectiveness. we have a standardized proce-                   tion of the data. additional control mechanisms include target-­
      dure under which necessary controls are defined, documented                  performance comparisons and analyses of the composition of,
      in accordance with uniform standards, and tested regularly on                and changes in, individual line items, both in the closing data
      their effectiveness. our management has concluded that the                   reported by units and in the consolidated financial statements.
      company ’s internal control over financial reporting was effec-              accounting-related it systems provide for defined access rules
      tive as of september 30, 2013. nevertheless, there are inherent              in order to ensure that accounting related data is protected
      limitations in the effectiveness of any control system, and no               from unauthorized access, use or modification. every unit
      system, including one determined to be effective, may prevent                ­included in our consolidated financial statements is subject
      or detect all misstatements.                                                  to the rules and regulations of the corporate information
                                                                                    ­security guide.
      our consolidated financial statements are prepared on the
      ­basis of a conceptual framework which primarily consists of                 on a quarterly basis, management of sectors, divisions, sfs,
       company-wide uniform financial reporting guidelines and a                   cross-sector services, regions and certain corporate units, are
       chart of accounts, both issued by the corporate finance de-                 supported by confirmations of management of entities under
       partment and to be applied consistently throughout siemens.                 their responsibility, which confirm the accuracy of the finan-
       new laws, accounting standards, and other official announce-                cial data they have reported to siemens’ corporate headquar-
       ments are analyzed on an ongoing basis with regard to their                 ters and the effectiveness of the related control systems.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
244
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                     ­associated material o

in addition, we have set up a disclosure committee – compris-                            additional information related to the
ing selected heads of corporate units – which is responsible                             stand-alone financial statements
for reviewing certain financial and non-financial information                            of siemens ag (german commercial code)
prior to publication.                                                                    siemens ag as the parent company of the siemens group is
                                                                                         integrated into the company-wide accounting-related internal
the supervisory board, through the audit committee, is also in-                          control system described above. generally, the information set
tegrated into our control system. in particular, the audit com-                          out above also applies for stand-alone financial statements
mittee oversees the accounting process, the effectiveness of the                         of siemens ag prepared in accordance with the german
control system, the risk management system and the internal                              ­commercial code.
audit system, and the independent audit of financial statements.
in addition, it conducts an audit of the documents related to the                        the consolidated financial statements are prepared in accor-
stand-alone financial statements of siemens ag and the consol-                           dance with ifrs. where required, i.e., for purposes of prepar-
idated financial statements and discusses the stand-alone fi-                            ing statements for local regulatory or tax purposes, data is ad-
nancial statements of siemens ag, the consolidated financial                             opted in accordance with relevant regulations by means of
statements and combined management report of these state-                                reconciliation at account level. accordingly, accurately deter-
ments with the managing board and the independent auditors.                              mined ifrs closing data also forms an important basis for the
                                                                                         stand-alone financial statements of siemens ag. in the case
through audits on a continuous and siemens wide basis our                                of siemens ag and other group companies required to prepare
internal corporate audit function monitors compliance with                               financial statements in accordance with german commercial
our guidelines and the reliability and functional operation of                           code, the conceptual framework described above is comple-
our control system as well as the adequacy and effectiveness                             mented by our mandatory german commercial code closing
of our risk management system.                                                           guidelines and a german commercial code chart of accounts.
                                                                                         the manual and system-based control mechanisms referred to
in addition we have rules for accounting-related complaints                              above generally also apply when reconciling the ifrs closing
and a code of ethics for financial matters.                                              data to the stand-alone financial statements of siemens ag.




c.10  compensation report, corporate governance statement
       ­pursuant to section 289a of the german commercial code,
        ­takeover-relevant information and explanatory report

the compensation report outlines the principles underlying                               ­combined management report and is published on                      www.

the determination of the total compensation of the members                               siemens.com/gcg-code . the corporate governance statement is

of the managing board of siemens ag, and sets out the struc-                             also presented in     b.2 corporate governance statement pur-

ture and level of the remuneration of the managing board                                 suant to section 289a of the german commercial code .

members. it also describes the policies governing and levels of
compensation paid to supervisory board members. the com-                                 the takeover-relevant information (pursuant to sections 289
pensation report is an integral part of the combined manage-                             para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of the german commercial code) and
ment report and is presented in     b.4 compensation report .                            explanatory report are an integral part of the combined man-
                                                                                         agement report and are presented in      b.5 takeover-relevant

the corporate governance statement pursuant to section 289a                              information (pursuant to sections 289 para. 4 and 315 para. 4 of

of the german commercial code is an integral part of the                                 the german commercial code) and expl anatory report .




                                                                                                              253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                              357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                     245
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.11  siemens ag (discussion on basis of german commercial code)


      unlike our consolidated financial statements, which are pre-                    revenue rose 1% due primarily to revenue increases of €715
      pared in accordance with the international financial reporting                  million in the healthcare sector, €42 million in the infrastruc-
      standards (ifrs), the stand-alone financial statements of                       ture & cities sector and €45 million in siemens real estate.
      siemens ag have been prepared in accordance with the rules                       these increases were partly offset by revenue declines of
      set out in the german commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch).                       €374 million in the energy sector and €107 million in the
                                                                                      ­industry sector. as a consequence of the mutual agreement
                                                                                       procedure with tax authorities related to transfer pricing,
      c.11.1 business and                                                              siemens ag received compensatory payments from siemens
      economic environment                                                             healthcare u.s. the payments amounted to €670 million, and
                                                                                       were booked as revenue by the healthcare sector. on a geo-
      siemens ag is the parent company of the siemens group.                           graphic basis, revenue grew 25% year-over-year in the ameri-
      siemens ag is a technology company with core activities in the                   cas region and declined 7% in the asia, australia region. in
      fields of energy, healthcare, industry and infrastructure & cities.              the europe, c.i.s., africa, middle east region, revenue was
      siemens ag includes one additional operating business,                           nearly unchanged from the prior-year level. exports from ger-
      siemens real estate. furthermore siemens ag is significantly                     many accounted for 70% of revenue in fiscal 2013 and fiscal
      influenced by directly or indirectly owned subsidiaries and in-                  2012. in fiscal 2013, orders for siemens ag amounted to €32.5
      vestments. siemens ag holds directly and indirectly 684 legal                    billion, a significant increase of 14% from €28.6 billion a year
      entities including non-controlling interests. siemens ag also                    earlier. the increase was driven mainly by a higher volume
      includes the group’s corporate headquarters functions.                           from large orders, including a €1.8 billion contract win for
                                                                                       trains in the u.k. and a €1.0 billion contract win for trains in
      the economic environment for siemens ag is largely the same                      germany at the infrastructure & cities sector’s transporta-
      as for the siemens group and is described in detail in  c.1.2                    tion & logistics division.
      economic environment .

                                                                                      gross profit was nearly level compared to the prior year, while
                                                                                      gross profit margin decreased slightly from 28% a year ago to
      c.11.2 results of operations                                                    27% in the current period. the decrease was driven by addi-
                                                                                      tional costs relating to project charges. these expenses com-
             statement of income of siemens ag in accordance                          prised €286 million related to high-speed trains at the infra-
             with german commercial code (condensed)                                  structure & cities sectors’s rail systems division and €226 mil-
                                                     year ended september 30,         lion mainly related to grid-connections to offshore wind-farms
       (in millions of €)                                   2013           2012       at the energy sector’s power transmission division. gross prof-
       revenue                                        30,305           29,913         it also included charges, associated with the company-wide
       cost of sales                                 (22,016)          (21,607)       “siemens 2014” productivity improvement program.
       gross profit                                    8,289             8,307
       research and development expenses               (2,878)          (2,904)       research and development (r&d) expenses decreased 1%
       selling and general administrative expenses     (4,173)          (3,991)       with nearly unchanged r&d expenses in all four sectors and
       other operating income (expenses), net            (178)             124        the percentage of revenue (r&d intensity) remained at 10%.
       financial income, net                                                          on an average basis, we employed 12,500 people in r&d in
        thereof income from investments 3,893
          (prior year 2,368)                           3,631             2,441        ­fiscal 2013 compared to 12,200 in fiscal 2012. for additional in-
       result from ordinary activities                 4,692             3,977         formation see    c.8.2 research and development .

       income taxes                                      (840)            (943)
       net income                                      3,852             3,034        other operating income (expenses), net declined €302 mil-
       profit carried forward                               115            114        lion compared to fiscal 2012, resulting from a decrease in other
       assets reduction due to spin-off                (1,800)                –       operating income of €340 million and a reduction of €38 mil-
       allocation to other retained earnings                476           (504)       lion in other operating expenses. other operating income in
       unappropriated net income                       2,643             2,643        fiscal 2012 benefited from a release amounting to €307 million
                                                                                      related to indirect pension obligations to siemens pensions-
                                                                                      fonds ag.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance                155    c.    combined ­management report
246
                                                      156    c.1   business and ­economic environment       207   c.6   overall assessment of the economic position
                                                      173    c.2   financial performance system             209   c.7   subsequent events
                                                      179    c.3   results of operations                    210   c.8   sustainability
                                                      192    c.4   financial position                       227   c.9   r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                      204    c.5   net assets position                                                       ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                        ­associated material o

financial income, net rose 49% year-over-year. the increase                              c.11.3 net assets and financial position
was attributable primarily to an increase of €1.525 billion in in-
come from investments. other financial income was €386 mil-                                      statement of financial position of siemens ag in
lion lower compared to the prior year, while net interest in-                                    accordance with german commercial code (condensed)

come came in €51 million higher.                                                                                                                                september 30,
                                                                                           (in millions of €)                                            2013           2012
the primary factor for the increase in income from invest-                                 assets
ments was a dividend payment of €3.000 billion from siemens                                non-current assets
beteiligungsverwaltung gmbh & co. ohg. this was only partly                                intangible and tangible assets                              2,437          2,388
offset by a decline of €605 million in dividend payments relat-                            financial assets                                          40,530          42,951
ed to wind power s / a and siemens s.r.o. compared to a year                                                                                         42,967          45,339
earlier. in addition, income from investments increased on                                 current assets
higher income and lower expenses from profit and loss trans-                               receivables and other assets                              17,032          15,790
fers, which came in €787 million higher, and decreased impair-                             cash and cash equivalents,
                                                                                           marketable securities                                       2,282          3,155
ments of investments, which came in €547 million lower year-
                                                                                                                                                     19,313          18,945
over-year. the result from disposals of investments decreased
                                                                                           prepaid expenses                                                75             86
by €2.084 billion and turned negative. these resulted from the
                                                                                           deferred tax assets                                         2,467          2,737
disposal loss of the shares held by siemens ag in nokia
                                                                                           active difference
siemens networks holding b.v. amounting to €306 million in                                 resulting from offsetting                                       46             42
fiscal 2013. in addition, gains from disposals in fiscal 2012 ben-                          total assets                                             64,868          67,149
efited from a gain of €1.290 billion resulting from the contribu-
tion in kind measured at fair value of siemens wind power a / s                            liabilities and equity
into sinius gmbh.                                                                          equity                                                    18,295          19,811


the decrease in other financial income resulted mainly from a                              special reserve with an equity portion                        767            775
decline of €559 million in dividend income from fund shares                                accruals and provisions
year-over year. in addition, the change in other financial in-                             pensions and similar commitments                          10,432           9,919
come included a decrease of €135 million for the reversal of                               other provisions                                            7,827          7,419
impairments of shares in investment funds. these were partly                                                                                         18,260          17,338
offset by an increase of €408 million in financial income relat-                           liabilities
ed to foreign currency and hedging transactions, the reversal                              liabilities to banks                                          138            146
of provisions for risks associated with derivative financial in-                           advanced payments received                                  1,349          1,551
struments and negative excess amounts of measurement                                       trade payables, liabilities to
                                                                                           affiliated companies and other liabilities                25,771          27,236
units.
                                                                                                                                                     27,257          28,934
                                                                                           deferred income                                               290            291
income tax expenses declined 11%. the decrease was due
                                                                                            total liabilities and equity                             64,868          67,149
mainly to significantly higher almost tax-free income from in-
vestments year-over-year. an additional positive effect in fiscal
2013 resulted from the above mentioned compensatory pay-
ments from siemens healthcare u.s., which were already                                   compared to the prior year, total assets decreased 3%.
taxed in the prior years. these factors were partly offset by
burdens of a tax audit regarding the rejection of the deduction
of expenses in connection with the buyback of convertible
bonds.




                                                                                                                    253    d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                                    357    e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                247
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      financial assets declined 6% year-over-year, due primarily to                c.11.4 employees
      successful completion of the spin-off and listing of osram, re-
      sulting in derecognition of €1.800 billion relating to osram                         indicators

      beteiligungen gmbh. in addition, siemens disposed of its                                                                                      year ended september 30,
      stake in nokia siemens networks holding b.v. to nokia corpo-                                                                                        2013              2012
      ration amounting to €1.319 billion. the merger of sms diag-                    employee turnover rate 1                                            3.0%              2.7%
      nostics europe ltd. reduced financial assets by €700 million.                  female employees in management positions
                                                                                     (percentage of all management positions) 2                        11.3%             10.6%
      these effects were partly offset by the addition of siemens rail
                                                                                     expenses for continuing education
      automation corporation amounting to €528 million, and high-
                                                                                     (in millions of €) 3                                                   94              100
      er loans to affiliated companies of €616 million year-over-year.
                                                                                     expenses per employee for continuing
                                                                                     education (in €) 3                                                   864               934
      receivables and other assets grew 8% due primarily to high-
      er receivables from affiliated companies as a result of in-                          1 employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits
                                                                                              from siemens ag during the fiscal year to the average number of employees.
      tra-group financing activities.
                                                                                           2 employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary
                                                                                              ­responsibility, plus project managers.
      cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities de-                              3 without travel expenses.

      clined 28%. the liquidity management of siemens ag is based
      on the finance strategy of the siemens group. therefore the
      change in liquidity of siemens ag resulted not only from busi-               as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, the numbers of employees
      ness activities of siemens ag.                                               were 108,234 and 108,004 respectively.

      equity declined 8%. the decrease was attributable to divi-                           employees of siemens ag by segments
                                                                                           as of september 30, 2013 (in thousands)
      dends paid in fiscal 2013 (for fiscal 2012) of €2.528 billion (for
      additional information see     c.2.5 dividend and share buybacks ).
                                                                                   energy: 25 (23%)                                                                 other: 9 (8%)
      in addition, the equity reduction was due to the osram spin-
      off amounting to €1.800 billion and to share buybacks during
      the year amounting to €1.348 billion. these factors were partly                                                                                        siemens real estate:
                                                                                                                                                                          2 (2%)
      offset by the profit for the year of €3.852 billion and the issu-            healthcare: 10 (9%)                           108
      ance of treasury stock of €308 million in conjunction with our
      share-based compensation program. the equity ratios at sep-
                                                                                                                                                           infrastructure & cities:
      tember 30, 2013 and 2012 were 28% and 30%, respectively.                     industry: 37 (34%)                                                                   26 (24%)


      pensions and similar commitments rose 5%, resulting main-
      ly from higher additions for interest and service costs of €841
      million, which were partly offset by higher pension payments
      of €471 million year-over year.                                              for additional information see                      c.8.9 employees .



      other provisions rose 5%, due primarily to an increase of €391
      million in provisions for personnel expenses, including
      charges, associated with the company-wide “siemens 2014”
      productivity improvement program.

      trade payables, liabilities to affiliated companies and
      other liabilities decreased 5%, due primarily to lower liabi­
      lities to affiliated companies as a result of intra-group financ-
      ing activities.




       92   a.   to our shareholders
      117   b.   corporate ­governance              155   c.    combined ­management report
248
                                                    156   c.1   business and ­economic environment                 207   c.6    overall assessment of the economic position
                                                    173   c.2   financial performance system                       209   c.7    subsequent events
                                                    179   c.3   results of operations                              210   c.8    sustainability
                                                    192   c.4   financial position                                 227   c.9    r eport on expected d­ evelopments and
                                                    204   c.5   net assets position                                                                  ­ pportunities and risks
                                                                                                                                ­associated material o

c.11.5 subsequent events                                                                 c.11.7 outlook
in november 2013, siemens announced a share buyback of up                                due to the interrelations between siemens ag and its subsid-
to €4 billion ending latest on october 31, 2015. the buybacks                            iaries and the relative size of siemens ag within the group,
will be made under the ­current authorization granted at the                             the outlook of the group also largely reflects our expectations
annual shareholders’ meeting on january 25, 2011, which al-                              for siemens ag. we expect that the anticipated market and
lows for further share repurchases of a maximum of 47.8 mil-                             revenue developments for fiscal 2014 described in statements
lion shares under this program. shares repurchased may be                                made by the siemens group will be mainly reflected in the rev-
used for cancelling and reducing capital stock, for issuing                              enue of siemens ag. in fiscal 2014, we expect the profit of
shares to current and former employees, to members of the                                siemens ag to benefit from productivity gains resulting from
managing board and board members of affiliated companies                                 the company-wide “siemens 2014” program. in addition, we
and for meeting obligations from or in connection with con-                              expect that income from investments will significantly influ-
vertible bonds or warrant bonds.                                                         ence the profit of siemens ag. for additional information see
                                                                                            c.9.1 report on expected developments .



c.11.6 risks and opportunities                                                           we intend to continue providing an attractive return to share-
                                                                                         holders. therefore in the years ahead we intend to propose a
the business development of siemens ag is fundamentally                                  dividend payout which, combined with outlays during the fis-
subject to the same risks and opportunities as the siemens                               cal year for publicly announced share buybacks, results in a
group. siemens ag generally participates in the risks of its                             sum representing 40% to 60% of net income of siemens
subsidiaries and equity investments in line with its percentage                          group, which for this purpose we may adjust to exclude se-
of each holding. for additional information see       c.9.3 risks                        lected exceptional non-cash effects. furthermore, for fiscal
and    c.9.4 opportunities .                                                             2014, we ­are taking proceeds from the sale of the nsn stake in
                                                                                         fiscal 2013 into consideration.
as the parent company of the siemens group, siemens ag is
integrated into the group-wide risk management system. for
additional information see   c.9.2 risk management .



the description of the internal control system for siemens ag
required by section 289 para. 5 of the german commercial
code is included in      c.9.5 significant characteristics of the

accounting related internal control and risk management ­s ystem .



for additional information regarding the use of financial in-
struments see     notes to the stand-alone financial statements

of siemens ag .




                                                                                                              253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements
                                                                                                              357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                              249
245   c.10 c  ompensation report, corporate governance   246   c.11 s iemens ag (­discussion on basis of
           statement pursuant to section 289a of the                 ­german ­commercial code)
           ­german commercial code, takeover-relevant     250   c.12 notes and forward-looking statements
            ­information and ­explanatory report

      c.12  notes and forward-looking statements


      this document includes supplemental financial measures that             tives may from time to time make oral forward-looking state-
      are or may be non-gaap financial measures. orders and order             ments. such statements are based on the current expectations
      backlog; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and or-            and certain assumptions of siemens’ management, and are,
      ders; book-to-bill ratio; total sectors profit; return on equity       therefore, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. a variety
      (after tax), or roe (after tax); return on capital employed (ad-       of factors, many of which are beyond siemens’ control, affect
      justed), or roce (adjusted); free cash flow, or fcf; adjusted          siemens’ operations, performance, business strategy and re-
      ebitda; adjusted ebit; adjusted ebitda margins, earnings ef-           sults and could cause the actual results, performance or
      fects from purchase price allocation, or ppa effects; net debt         achievements of siemens to be materially different from any
      and adjusted industrial net debt are or may be such non-gaap           future results, performance or achievements that may be
      financial measures. these supplemental financial measures              ­expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or
      should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to measures           anticipated on the basis of historical trends. these factors in-
      of siemens’ financial condition, results of operations or cash          clude in particular, but are not limited to, the matters described
      flows as presented in accordance with ifrs in its consolidated          in item 3: key information – risk factors of our most recent
      financial statements. other companies that report or describe           annual report on form 20-f filed with the sec, in the chapter
      similarly titled financial measures may calculate them differ-             c.9.3 risks in this annual report prepared in accordance

      ently. definitions of these supplemental financial measures, a         with the german commercial code.
      discussion of the most directly comparable ifrs financial mea-
      sures, information regarding the usefulness of siemens’ sup-           further information about risks and uncertainties affecting
      plemental financial measures, the limitations associated with          siemens is included throughout this annual report, as well as
      these measures and reconciliations to the most comparable              our most recent earnings release, which are available on the
      ifrs financial measures are available on siemens’ investor re-         siemens website,         www.siemens.com , and throughout our

      lations website at     www.siemens.com/nongaap . for addition-         most recent      annual report on form 20-f and in our other

      al information, see supplemental financial measures and the            filings with the sec, which are available on the siemens
                                                                             ­
      related discussion in siemens’ most recent annual report on            ­website,     www.siemens.com , and on the sec’s website,

      form 20-f, which can be found on our investor relations web-                www.sec.gov . should one or more of these risks or un­

      site or via the edgar system on the website of the united               certainties mate­ rialize, or should underlying assumptions
      states securities and exchange commission.                              prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements
                                                                              of siemens may vary materially from those described in the
      this document contains statements related to our future busi-           relevant forward-looking statement as being expected, antici-
      ness and financial performance and future events or develop-            pated, intended, planned, believed, sought, estimated or pro-
      ments involving siemens that may constitute forward-looking             jected. siemens neither intends, nor assumes any obligation,
      statements. these statements may be identified by words such            to ­update or revise these forward-looking statements in light
      as “expects,” “looks forward to,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,”   of developments which differ from those anticipated.
      “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “will,” “project” or words of sim-
      ilar meaning. we may also make forward-looking statements              due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and oth-
      in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to           er documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided
      shareholders and in press releases. in addition, our representa-       and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.




250

                                                                                                                             d.
consolidated
financial statements
254 d.1        consolidated statements                                285    note 15 – goodwill
               of income                                              286    note 16 – other intangible assets               consolidated
                                                                      287    note 17 – property, plant and equipment         financial statements
255 d.2        consolidated statements                                289    note 18 – investments accounted for

               of comprehensive income                                                   using the equity method
                                                                      289    note 19 – other financial assets

                                                                      290    note 20 – other current financial liabilities
256 d.3        consolidated statements
                                                                      290    note 21 – other current liabilities
               of financial position
                                                                      290    note 22 – debt

                                                                      293    note 23 – post-employment benefits
257 d.4        consolidated statements                                299    note 24 – provisions
               of cash flows
                                                                      301    note 25 – other liabilities

                                                                      301    note 26 – equity
258 d.5        consolidated statements                                303    note 27 – additional capital disclosures
               of changes in equity                                   305    note 28 – commitments and contingencies
         consolidated statements of income 306 note 29 – legal proceedings
260 d.6        notes to consolidated                                  313    note 30 – additional disclosures on financial
               financial statements                                                      instruments
262 segment information                                               316    note 31 – derivative financial instruments
                                                           and hedging activities
                        consolidated statements of comprehensive
    (continuing operations)                                               income
262 note 1 – basis of presentation          318  note 32 – financial risk management

262   note 2 – summary of significant
                                                                      323    note 33 – share-based payment




                                                                                                                                                    d. consolidated financial statements
                  accounting policies                                 326    note 34 – personnel costs

271   note 3 – critical accounting estimates                  statements
                                                 consolidated326                    per shareposition
                                                                            of financial
                                                                 note 35 – earnings

273   note 4 – acquisitions, dispositions and                         327    note 36 – segment information
                  discontinued operations                             330    note 37 – information about geographies
278   note 5 – other operating income                                 330    note 38 – related party transactions
278   note 6 – other operating expenses
                                                                      332    note 39 – principal accountant fees
279                    consolidated statements of cash flowsand services
      note 7 – income (loss) from investments
                  accounted for using the equity                      334    note 40 – corporate governance
                  method, net
                                                                      334    note 41 – subsequent events
279   note 8 – interest income, interest
                  expenses and other financial                        335    note 42 – list of subsidiaries and

                  income (expenses), net                                                 associated companies pursuant
                                                                                         to section 313 para. 2 of the
280   note 9 – income taxes                                                              german commercial code
282                               consolidated statements of changes in equity
      note 10 – available-for-sale financial assets

283   note 11 – trade and other receivables
                                                                      348 d.7         supervisory board and
284   note 12 – other current financial assets                                        managing board
284   note 13 – inventories                                           348 d.7.1 supervisory board
284   note 14 – other current assets                                  352 d.7.2 managing board


      notes to consolidated financial statements


                                                    supervisory board and managing board




                                                                                                                                             253
      due to rounding, numbers presented throughout these consolidated financial statements may not add
      up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

      c.12 notes and forward-looking statements


                                         the consolidated financial statements
      this document includes supplemental financial measures that          tives may from time to time make oral forward-looking state-
      are or may be non-gaap financial measures. orders and order          ments. such statements are based on the current expectations
                                         are prepared in accordance with inter-
      backlog; adjusted or organic growth rates of revenue and or-         and certain assumptions of siemens’ management, and are,
                                         national financial reporting standards
      ders; book-to-bill ratio; total sectors profit; return on equity
      (after tax), or roe (after tax); return on capital employed (ad-
                                                                           therefore, subject to certain risks and uncertainties. a variety
                                                                           of factors, many of which are beyond siemens’ control, affect
                                         (ifrs) as adopted by the european
      justed), or roce (adjusted); free cash flow, or fcf; adjusted        siemens’ operations, performance, business strategy and re-

                                         union (eu), the supplementary require-
      ebitda; adjusted ebit; adjusted ebitda margins, earnings ef-
      fects from purchase price allocation, or ppa effects; net debt
                                                                           sults and could cause the actual results, performance or
                                                                           achievements of siemens to be materially different from any
                                         ments of german law pursuant to sec-
      and adjusted industrial net debt are or may be such non-gaap         future results, performance or achievements that may be
      financial measures. these supplemental financial measures            expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements or
                                         tion 315a (1) of the german commercial
      should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to measures        anticipated on the basis of historical trends. these factors in-

                                         code and full ifrs as issued by the
      of siemens’ financial condition, results of operations or cash
      flows as presented in accordance with ifrs in its consolidated
                                                                           clude in particular, but are not limited to, the matters described
                                                                           in item 3: key information – risk factors of our most recent
                                         international accounting standards
      financial statements. other companies that report or describe        annual report on form 20-f filed with the sec, in the chapter
      similarly titled financial measures may calculate them differ-           c.9.3 risks in this annual report prepared in accordance
                                         board (iasb). they give a true and fair
      ently. definitions of these supplemental financial measures, a       with the german commercial code.
                                         view of the net assets, financial position
      discussion of the most directly comparable ifrs financial mea-
      sures, information regarding the usefulness of siemens’ sup-         further information about risks and uncertainties affecting
                                         and results of operations of the group
      plemental financial measures, the limitations associated with        siemens is included throughout this annual report, as well as
      these measures and reconciliations to the most comparable            our most recent earnings release, which are available on the
                                         in accordance with these requirements.
      ifrs financial measures are available on siemens’ investor re-       siemens website,        www.siemens.com , and throughout our

      lations website at      www.siemens.com/nongaap . for addition-      most recent       annual report on form 20-f and in our other

      al information, see supplemental financial       measures and the    filings with the sec, which are available on the siemens
                                               www.siemens.com/ar/consolidated- financial-statements
      related discussion in siemens’ most recent annual report on          website,       www.siemens.com , and on the sec’s website,

      form 20-f, which can be found on our investor relations web-             www.sec.gov . should one or more of these risks or un-

      site or via the edgar system on the website of the united            certainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions
      states securities and exchange commission.                           prove incorrect, actual results, performance or achievements
                                                                           of siemens may vary materially from those described in the
      this document contains statements related to our future busi-        relevant forward-looking statement as being expected, antici-
      ness and financial performance and future events or develop-         pated, intended, planned, believed, sought, estimated or pro-
      ments involving siemens that may constitute forward-looking          jected. siemens neither intends, nor assumes any obligation,
      statements. these statements may be identified by words such         to update or revise these forward-looking statements in light
      as “expects,” “looks forward to,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” of developments which differ from those anticipated.
      “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “will,” “project” or words of sim-
      ilar meaning. we may also make forward-looking statements            due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and oth-
      in other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to         er documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided
      shareholders and in press releases. in addition, our representa-     and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.




250

                                                                                                                               d.
consolidated
­financial statements
254 d.1        consolidated statements                                285     note 15 – goodwill
               of income                                              286     note 16 – other intangible assets               consolidated
                                                                      287     note 17 – property, plant and equipment          ­financial statements
255 d.2        consolidated statements                                289     note 18 – investments accounted for

               of ­comprehensive income                                                   using the equity method
                                                                      289     note 19 – other financial assets

                                                                      290     note 20 – other current financial liabilities
256 d.3        consolidated statements
                                                                      290     note 21 – other current liabilities
               of financial position
                                                                      290     note 22 – debt

                                                                      293     note 23 – post-employment benefits
257 d.4        consolidated statements                                299     note 24 – provisions
               of cash flows
                                                                      301     note 25 – other liabilities

                                                                      301     note 26 – equity
258 d.5        consolidated statements                                303     note 27 – additional capital disclosures
               of changes in equity                                   305     note 28 – commitments and contingencies

                                                                      306     note 29 – legal proceedings

260 d.6        notes to consolidated                                  313     note 30 – additional disclosures on financial
               ­financial statements                                                      instruments
260 segment information                                               316     note 31 – derivative financial instruments

    (continuing operations)                                                               and hedging activities
262   note 1 – basis of presentation
                                                                      318     note 32 – financial risk management

262   note 2 – summary of significant
                                                                      323     note 33 – share-based payment




                                                                                                                                                       d. consolidated financial statements
                  ­accounting policies                                326     note 34 – personnel costs

271   note 3 – critical accounting estimates                         326     note 35 – earnings per share

273   note 4 – acquisitions, dispositions and                        327     note 36 – segment information
                  ­discontinued operations                            330     note 37 – information about geographies
278   note 5 – other operating income                                330     note 38 – related party transactions
278   note 6 – other operating expenses
                                                                      332     note 39 – principal accountant fees
279   note 7 – income (loss) from investments                                            and ­services
                  accounted for using the equity                      334     note 40 – corporate governance
                  method, net
                                                                      334     note 41 – subsequent events
279   note 8 – interest income, interest
                  expenses and other financial                        335     note 42 – list of subsidiaries and

                  income (expenses), net                                                  associated companies pursuant
                                                                                          to section 313 para. 2 of the
280   note 9 – income taxes                                                               german commercial code
282   note 10 – available-for-sale financial assets

283   note 11 – trade and other receivables
                                                                      348 d.7          supervisory board and
284   note 12 – other current financial assets                                         ­managing board
284   note 13 – inventories                                           348 d.7.1 supervisory board
284   note 14 – other current assets                                 352 d.7.2 managing board




                                                                                                                                               253
      due to rounding, numbers presented throughout these ­consolidated financial statements may not add
      up ­precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

      d.1  consolidated statements of income


             for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012

       (in millions of €, per share amounts in €)                                                                                             note               2013         2012 1
       revenue                                                                                                                                               75,882         77,395
       cost of sales                                                                                                                                        (55,053)        (55,470)
       gross profit                                                                                                                                          20,829         21,925
       research and development expenses                                                                                                                      (4,291)        (4,245)
       selling and general administrative expenses                                                                                                          (11,286)        (11,043)
       other operating income                                                                                                                    5               503           523
       other operating expenses                                                                                                                  6              (427)         (364)
       income (loss) from investments accounted for using the equity method, net                                                                 7               510          (333)
       interest income                                                                                                                           8               948           939
       interest expenses                                                                                                                         8              (789)         (760)
       other financial income (expenses), net                                                                                                    8              (154)            (5)
       income from continuing operations before income taxes                                                                                                   5,843         6,636
       income tax expenses                                                                                                                       9            (1,630)        (1,994)
       income from continuing operations                                                                                                                       4,212         4,642
       income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                                                           4               197          (360)
       net income                                                                                                                                              4,409         4,282
           attributable to:
         non-controlling interests                                                                                                                               126           132
          shareholders of siemens ag                                                                                                                           4,284         4,151
       basic earnings per share                                                                                                                 35
           income from continuing operations                                                                                                                    4.85           5.15
           income (loss) from discontinued operations                                                                                                           0.23          (0.41)
           net income                                                                                                                                           5.08           4.74
       diluted earnings per share                                                                                                               35
           income from continuing operations                                                                                                                    4.80           5.10
           income (loss) from discontinued operations                                                                                                           0.22          (0.41)
           net income                                                                                                                                           5.03           4.69


             1 
               adjusted for effects of adopting ias 19r, see               the accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                  note 1 basis of presentation in                           ­consolidated financial statements.
                   d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .




      92    a.   to our shareholders                                  117   b.    corporate ­governance                            155   c.   combined ­management report
254

d.2  consolidated statements of ­comprehensive income


        for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012

 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                   note                  2013               2012 1
 net income                                                                                                                                                               4,409               4,282


 items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
 remeasurements of defined benefit plans                                                                                                                23                  394              (1,787)


 items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
 currency translation differences                                                                                                                                        (1,062)                   855
 available-for-sale financial assets                                                                                                                    10                  183                    209
 derivative financial instruments                                                                                                                    30, 31                     45                  63
                                                                                                                                                                           (834)              1,127
 other comprehensive income, net of income taxes 2                                                                                                                         (440)               (661)
 total comprehensive income                                                                                                                                               3,969               3,622
      attributable to:
   non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                                    81                 128
    shareholders of siemens ag                                                                                                                                            3,888               3,494


        1 
          adjusted for effects of adopting ias 19r, see               2 includes income (expenses) resulting from investments             the accompanying notes are an integral part of these
             note 1 basis of presentation in                              accounted for using the equity method of €(257) million           ­consolidated financial statements.
              d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .            and €28 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 2012 of
                                                                          which €(121) million and €(99) million, respectively, are
                                                                          attributable to items that will not be reclassified to profit
                                                                          or loss.					




253    d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                           357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                         255
254    d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255    d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256    d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257    d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.3  consolidated statements of financial position


              as of september 30, 2013 and 2012

       (in millions of €)                                                                                                                         note           09/30/2013          09/30/2012 1
       assets
           cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                 9,190              10,891
           available-for-sale financial assets                                                                                                      10                  601                    524
           trade and other receivables                                                                                                              11              14,853              15,220
           other current financial assets                                                                                                           12               3,250                   2,901
           inventories                                                                                                                              13              15,560              15,679
           current income tax assets                                                                                                                                    794                    836
           other current assets                                                                                                                     14               1,297                   1,277
           assets classified as held for disposal                                                                                                     4              1,393                   4,799
       total current assets                                                                                                                                         46,937              52,128
           goodwill                                                                                                                                 15              17,883              17,069
           other intangible assets                                                                                                                  16               5,057                   4,595
           property, plant and equipment                                                                                                            17               9,815              10,763
           investments accounted for using the equity method                                                                                        18               3,022                   4,436
           other financial assets                                                                                                                   19              15,117              14,666
           deferred tax assets                                                                                                                        9              3,234                   3,748
           other assets                                                                                                                                                 872                    846
       total non-current assets                                                                                                                                     54,999              56,123
       total assets                                                                                                                                               101,936              108,251


       liabilities and equity
           short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt                                                                                 22               1,944                   3,826
           trade payables                                                                                                                                            7,599                   8,036
           other current financial liabilities                                                                                                      20               1,515                   1,460
           current provisions                                                                                                                       24               4,485                   4,750
           current income tax liabilities                                                                                                                            2,151                   2,204
           other current liabilities                                                                                                                21              19,701              20,302
           liabilities associated with assets classified as held for disposal                                                                         4                 473                  2,049
       total current liabilities                                                                                                                                    37,868              42,627
           long-term debt                                                                                                                           22              18,509              16,880
           post-employment benefits                                                                                                                 23               9,265                   9,801
           deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                                   9                 504                    494
           provisions                                                                                                                               24               3,907                   3,908
           other financial liabilities                                                                                                                               1,184                   1,083
           other liabilities                                                                                                                        25               2,074                   2,034
       total non-current liabilities                                                                                                                                35,443              34,200
       total liabilities                                                                                                                                            73,312              76,827
       equity                                                                                                                                       26
           issued capital, no par value 2                                                                                                                            2,643                   2,643
           capital reserve                                                                                                                                           5,484                   6,173
           retained earnings                                                                                                                                        22,663              22,877
           other components of equity                                                                                                                                   268                  1,058
           treasury shares, at cost 3                                                                                                                               (2,946)              (1,897)
       total equity attributable to shareholders of siemens ag                                                                                                      28,111              30,855
           non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                    514                    569
       total equity                                                                                                                                                 28,625              31,424
       total liabilities and equity                                                                                                                               101,936              108,251


              1 adjusted for effects of adopting ias 19r, see               2 authorized: 1,084,600,000 and 1,084,600,000 shares,     3 37,997,595 and 24,725,674 shares, respectively.
                   note 1 basis of presentation in                              respectively. issued: 881,000,000 and 881,000,000
                                                                                                                                        the accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                    d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .            shares, respectively.
                                                                                                                                        c
                                                                                                                                        ­ onsolidated financial statements.




      92    a.    to our shareholders                                  117   b.    corporate ­governance                              155   c.   combined ­management report
256

d.4  consolidated statements of cash flows


       for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012

 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                note                 2013                2012 1
 cash flows from operating activities
   net income                                                                                                                                                         4,409               4,282
 adjustments to reconcile net income to cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations
    (income) loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes                                                                                                    (197)                360
    amortization, depreciation and impairments                                                                                                                        2,888               2,818
    income tax expenses                                                                                                                                               1,630               1,994
    interest (income) expenses, net                                                                                                                                    (159)               (178)
    (gains) losses on disposals of assets related to investing activities, net 2                                                                                       (292)               (345)
    other (income) losses from investments 2                                                                                                                           (326)                424
    other non-cash (income) expenses                                                                                                                                    674                 110
    change in assets and liabilities
    inventories                                                                                                                                                        (218)                (89)
     trade and other receivables                                                                                                                                       (293)                104
    trade payables                                                                                                                                                     (217)                199
     other assets and liabilities                                                                                                                                       576              (2,078)
    additions to assets leased to others in operating leases                                                                                                           (377)               (375)
    income taxes paid                                                                                                                                                (2,166)             (1,445)
   dividends received                                                                                                                                                   356                 301
   interest received                                                                                                                                                    837                 842
   cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations                                                                                                       7,126               6,923
   cash flows from operating activities – discontinued operations                                                                                                       214                 188
   cash flows from operating activities – continuing and discontinued operations                                                                                      7,340               7,110
 cash flows from investing activities
   additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment                                                                                                  (1,869)             (2,195)
   acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired                                                                                                                  (2,801)             (1,295)
   purchase of investments 2                                                                                                                                           (346)               (252)
   purchase of current available-for-sale financial assets                                                                                                             (157)               (182)
   change in receivables from financing activities                                                                                                                   (2,175)             (2,087)
   disposal of investments, intangibles and property, plant and equipment 2                                                                                           2,463                 753
   disposal of businesses, net of cash disposed                                                                                                                         (27)                 87
   disposal of current available-for-sale financial assets                                                                                                               76                 142
   cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations                                                                                                      (4,836)             (5,029)
   cash flows from investing activities – discontinued operations                                                                                                      (240)               (656)
   cash flows from investing activities – continuing and discontinued operations                                                                                     (5,076)             (5,685)
 cash flows from financing activities
   purchase of treasury shares                                                                                                                       26             (1,394)              (1,721)
   other transactions with owners                                                                                                                                      (15)                 158
   issuance of long-term debt                                                                                                                        22              3,772                5,113
   repayment of long-term debt (including current maturities of long-term debt)                                                                                     (2,927)              (3,218)
   change in short-term debt and other financing activities                                                                                                              3                  (62)
   interest paid                                                                                                                                                      (479)                (503)
   dividends paid to shareholders of siemens ag                                                                                                      26             (2,528)              (2,629)
   dividends attributable to non-controlling interests                                                                                                                (152)                (155)
   financing discontinued operations 3                                                                                                                                 298                 (506)
   cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations                                                                                                     (3,422)              (3,523)
   cash flows from financing activities – discontinued operations                                                                                                       26                  468
   cash flows from financing activities – continuing and discontinued operations                                                                                    (3,396)              (3,055)
 effect of deconsolidation of osram on cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                      (476)                   –
 effect of changes in exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                     (108)                  68
 change in cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                (1,717)              (1,561)
 cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                                                                                                                   10,950               12,512
 cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                                                                                                          9,234               10,950
 less: cash and cash equivalents of assets classified as held for disposal and
 discontinued operations at end of period                                                                                                                                44                  59
 cash and cash equivalents at end of period (consolidated statements of financial position)                                                                           9,190              10,891


       1 adjusted for effects of adopting ias 19r, see               2 investments include equity instruments either classified as     3 discontinued operations are financed generally through
            note 1 basis of presentation in                              non-current available-for-sale financial assets, accounted         corporate treasury.		
             d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .            for using the equity method or classified as held for dis-
                                                                                                                                         the accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                                                                         posal. purchase of investments includes certain loans to
                                                                                                                                         ­consolidated financial statements.
                                                                         investments accounted for using the equity method.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                         357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                     257
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.5  consolidated statements of changes in equity


             for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012




                                                                                                                                        issued capital             capital reserve      retained earnings


       (in millions of €)
       balance as of october 1, 2011 (as previously reported)                                                                                      2,743                   6,011                  25,881
       effect of retrospectively adopting ias 19r                                                                                                        –                       –                    116
       balance as of october 1, 2011 1                                                                                                             2,743                   6,011                  25,996
       net income 1                                                                                                                                      –                       –                 4,151
       other comprehensive income, net of income taxes 1                                                                                                 –                       –                (1,783)2
       dividends                                                                                                                                         –                       –                (2,629)
       share-based payment                                                                                                                               –                     42                    (129)
       purchase of treasury shares                                                                                                                       –                       –                       –
       re-issuance of treasury shares                                                                                                                    –                      (6)                      –
       cancellation of treasury shares                                                                                                             (100)                         –                (2,410)
       transactions with non-controlling interests                                                                                                       –                       –                   (326)
       other changes in equity                                                                                                                           –                   126                         7
       balance as of september 30, 2012                                                                                                            2,643                   6,173                  22,877


       balance as of october 1, 2012 (as previously reported)                                                                                      2,643                   6,173                  22,756
       effect of retrospectively adopting ias 19r                                                                                                        –                       –                    122
       balance as of october 1, 2012 1                                                                                                             2,643                   6,173                  22,877
       net income                                                                                                                                        –                       –                 4,284
       other comprehensive income, net of income taxes                                                                                                   –                       –                    3952
       dividends                                                                                                                                         –                       –                (2,528)
       share-based payment                                                                                                                               –                     21                     (40)
       purchase of treasury shares                                                                                                                       –                       –                       –
       re-issuance of treasury shares                                                                                                                    –                       5                       –
       transactions with non-controlling interests                                                                                                       –                       –                    (52)
       spin-off related changes in equity                                                                                                                –                  (163)                 (2,270)
       other changes in equity                                                                                                                           –                  (553)                       (3)
       balance as of september 30, 2013                                                                                                            2,643                   5,484                  22,663


             1 
               adjusted for effects of adopting ias 19r, see               2 items of other comprehensive income that will not be                 respectively, in the fiscal years ended september 30, 2013
                  note 1 basis of presentation in                              reclassified to profit or loss consist of remeasurements of          and 2012. remeasurements of defined benefit plans are
                   d.6 notes to consolidated financial statements .            defined benefit plans of €395 million and €(1,783) million,          included in line item retained earnings.




      92   a.    to our shareholders                                  117   b.     corporate ­governance                                     155    c.       combined ­management report
258

                                                               total comprehensive income

                                       other components of equity
       items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss

      currency trans­       available-for-sale    derivative financial                     total                 treasury               total equity            non-controlling        total equity
   lation differences         financial assets           instruments                                        shares at cost              attributable                  interests
                                                                                                                                    to shareholders
                                                                                                                                     of siemens ag
                    2                      36                   (106)                  25,813                     (3,037)                  31,530                           626           32,156
                    –                       –                       –                       116                           –                      116                           –                116
                    2                      36                   (106)                  25,929                     (3,037)                  31,645                           626           32,271
                    –                       –                       –                    4,151                            –                    4,151                        132             4,282
                 855                     209                      62                       (657)                          –                    (657)                          (4)               (661)3
                    –                       –                       –                   (2,629)                           –                (2,629)                         (176)          (2,805)
                    –                       –                       –                      (129)                          –                     (87)                           –                 (87)
                    –                       –                       –                          –                  (1,767)                  (1,767)                             –          (1,767)
                    –                       –                       –                          –                      397                        391                           –                391
                    –                       –                       –                   (2,410)                    2,510                             –                         –                   –
                    –                       –                       –                      (326)                          –                    (326)                         24                 (302)
                    –                       –                       –                          7                          –                      134                        (34)                100
                 857                     245                     (44)                  23,936                     (1,897)                  30,855                           569           31,424


                 857                     245                     (44)                  23,814                     (1,897)                  30,733                           569           31,302
                    –                       –                       –                       122                           –                      122                           –                122
                 857                     245                     (44)                  23,936                     (1,897)                  30,855                           569           31,424
                    –                       –                       –                    4,284                            –                    4,284                        126             4,409
              (1,017)                    183                      43                       (396)                          –                    (396)                        (44)                (440)3
                    –                       –                       –                   (2,528)                           –                (2,528)                         (119)          (2,647)
                    –                       –                       –                       (40)                          –                      (18)                          –                 (18)
                    –                       –                       –                          –                  (1,349)                  (1,349)                             –          (1,349)
                    –                       –                       –                          –                      300                        304                           –                304
                    –                       –                       –                       (52)                          –                      (52)                       (10)                 (62)
                    –                       –                       –                   (2,270)                           –                (2,433)                             –          (2,433)
                    –                       –                       –                         (3)                         –                    (556)                          (8)               (564)
                (160)                    428                       (1)                 22,930                     (2,946)                  28,111                           514           28,625


3 in fiscal years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012, other           €(45) million and €(1) million relating to currency translation    the accompanying notes are an integral part of these
   comprehensive income, net of income taxes, includes                differences, €– million and €– million relating to available-      ­consolidated financial statements.
   non-controlling interests of €– million and €(4) million           for-sale financial assets and €1 million and €1 million relating
   relating to remeasurements of defined benefit plans,               to derivative financial instruments.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                           357    e.       additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                         259
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258      d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260      d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348      d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.6  notes to consolidated ­financial statements


      segment information (continuing operations)
              as of and for the fiscal years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012

                                                                                              orders 1                external revenue           intersegment revenue                            total revenue



       (in millions of €)                                                      2013              2012             2013             2012              2013            2012               2013               2012
       sectors
           energy                                                        28,797              26,930           26,386           27,501                252             235            26,638             27,736
           healthcare                                                    13,950              13,806           13,598           13,600                 24               42           13,621             13,642
           industry                                                      18,417              18,962           16,943           17,772           1,643              1,637            18,586             19,409
           infrastructure & cities                                       21,894              17,150           17,128           16,731                750             853            17,879             17,585
       total sectors                                                     83,057              76,848           74,055           75,605           2,669              2,767            76,724             78,372
       equity investments                                                        –                  –                –                –                –                 –                  –                  –
       financial services (sfs)                                            1,072                 908              960              859               112               48             1,072                908
       reconciliation to
       consolidated financial statements
           centrally managed portfolio activities                              296               283              264              281                10               11               274                292
           siemens real estate (sre)                                       2,510              2,434               301              325          2,210              2,121              2,512              2,447
           corporate items and pensions                                        470               508              302              325               170             184                472                509
        eliminations, corporate treasury
         and other reconciling items                                       (5,055)           (5,041)                 –                –        (5,172)            (5,132)            (5,172)            (5,132)
       siemens                                                           82,351              75,939           75,882           77,395                  –                 –          75,882             77,395


              1 
                this supplementary information on orders is provided                 financing interest, certain pension costs and income      3 
                                                                                                                                                   assets of the sectors as well as of equity investments and
                on a voluntary basis. it is not part of the consolidated               taxes. certain other items not considered performance          centrally managed portfolio activities is defined as total
                  financial statements subject to the audit opinion.                   indicative by management may be excluded. profit of            assets less income tax assets, less non-interest bearing
                                                                                       sfs and sre is income before income taxes.                    ­liabilities other than tax liabilities. assets of sfs and sre
              2 
                profit of the sectors as well as of equity investments and
                                                                                                                                                      is total assets.
                centrally managed portfolio activities is earnings before




      92    a.    to our shareholders                                      117    b.      corporate ­governance                                155    c.    combined ­management report
260

                               profit 2                              assets 3                       free cash flow 4               additions to intangible           amortization, depreciation
                                                                                                                           assets and property, plant and                    and impairments 5
                                                                                                                                               equipment
             2013               2012         09/30/2013           09/30/2012                2013               2012               2013               2012                  2013               2012


            1,955             1,901               1,621              1,116                1,595              2,142                425                547                   587                549
            2,048             1,815             11,023              11,757                2,238              1,861                291                354                   638                726
            1,478             2,448               6,549              6,479                2,070              2,123                395                417                   657                553
             306              1,102               5,694              4,012                  384                737                239                290                   332                276
            5,788             7,266             24,886              23,364                6,288              6,863               1,350             1,608               2,215               2,104
             396               (549)              1,767              2,715                  114                100                   –                   –                   –                      –
             409                 479            18,661              17,405                  857                528                  69                 31                  230                270



              (12)               (29)              (267)                 (448)              (58)                 12                  7                   3                   3                      6
             171                 115              4,747              5,018                 (108)              (231)               365                453                   314                327
            (839)              (668)           (11,252)            (11,693)                (431)              (910)                 83               103                    91                  67

              (70)                 23           63,393              71,889               (1,405)           (1,634)                  (4)                 (4)                (34)                (41)
            5,843             6,636           101,936             108,251                 5,257              4,727               1,869             2,195               2,819               2,732


4 
   ree cash flow represents cash flows from operating activi-
  f                                                                   related payments and proceeds. free cash flow of sfs, a       5 
                                                                                                                                      amortization, depreciation and impairments contains
  ties less additions to intangible assets and property, plant        financial services business, and of sre includes related        amortization and impairments, net of reversals of
  and equipment. free cash flow of the sectors, equity invest-        financing interest payments and proceeds; income tax              ­impairments, of intangible assets other than goodwill as
  ments and centrally managed portfolio activities primarily          payments and proceeds of sfs and sre are excluded.              well as depreciation and impairments of property, plant
  exclude income tax, financing interest and certain pension                                                                          and equipment, net of reversals of impairments.




253   d.     consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                     357   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                        261
254   d.1    consolidated statements of income                     258    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2    consolidated statements of comprehensive income      260    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3     consolidated statements of financial position        348    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4     consolidated statements of cash flows

      note 1    basis of presentation                                            business combinations – business combinations are account-
                                                                                 ed for under the acquisition method. siemens as the acquirer
      the accompanying consolidated financial statements present                 and the acquiree may have a relationship that existed before
      the operations of siemens ag with registered offices in berlin             they contemplated the business combination, referred to as a
      and munich, germany, and its subsidiaries (the company or                  pre-existing relationship. if the business combination in effect
      siemens). they have been prepared in accordance with inter-                settles a pre-existing relationship, siemens as the acquirer rec-
      national financial reporting standards (ifrs), as adopted by the           ognizes a gain or loss for the pre-existing relationship. the
      european union as well as with the additional requirements set             cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the as-
      forth in section 315a (1) of the german commercial code (hgb).             sets given and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of ex-
      the financial statements are also in accordance with ifrs as               change. any contingent consideration to be transferred by
      ­issued by the international accounting standards board (iasb).            siemens as the acquirer will be recognized at fair value at the
                                                                                 acquisition date. subsequent changes to the fair value of the
      siemens prepares and reports its consolidated financial state-             contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or lia-
      ments in euros (€). due to rounding, numbers presented may                 bility will be recognized either in profit or loss or as a change
      not add up precisely to totals provided.                                   to other comprehensive income. if the contingent consider-
                                                                                 ation is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured; subse-
      siemens is a german based multinational corporation with a                 quent settlement is accounted for within equity. acquisi-
      business portfolio of activities predominantly in the field of             tion-related costs are expensed in the period incurred. identifi-
      electronics and electrical engineering.                                    able assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business com-
                                                                                 bination (including contingent liabilities) are measured
      the consolidated financial statements were authorised for                  initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective
      issue by the managing board on november 20, 2013. the
      ­                                                                          of the extent of any non-controlling interest. uniform account-
      ­consolidated financial statements are generally prepared on               ing policies are applied. non-controlling interests may be mea-
       the historical cost basis, except as stated in note 2 summary             sured at their fair value (full goodwill method) or at the pro-
       of significant accounting policies .                                      portional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed
                                                                                 (partial goodwill method). after initial recognition non-con-
                                                                                 trolling interests may show a deficit balance since both profits
           summary of significant
      note 2                                                                     and losses are allocated to the shareholders based on their eq-
      accounting policies                                                        uity interests. in business combinations achieved in stages,
                                                                                 any previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remea-
      the accounting policies set out below have been applied con-               sured to its acquisition date fair value. if there is no loss of
      sistently to all periods presented in these consolidated finan-            control, transactions with non-controlling interests are ac-
      cial statements.                                                           counted for as equity transactions not affecting profit and loss.
                                                                                 at the date control is lost, any retained equity interests are
      basis of consolidation – the consolidated financial state-                 remeasured to fair value. in case of a written put on non-con-
       ments include the accounts of siemens ag and its subsidiaries             trolling interests the company distinguishes whether the pre-
      which are directly or indirectly controlled. control is generally          requisites for the transfer of present ownership interest are
      conveyed by ownership of the majority of voting rights. addi-              fulfilled at the balance sheet date. provided that the company
      tionally, the company consolidates special purpose entities                is not the beneficial owner of the shares underlying the put
      (spe’s) when, based on the evaluation of the substance of the              option, the exercise of the put option will be assumed at each
      relationship with siemens, the company concludes that it                   balance sheet date and treated as equity transaction between
      ­controls the spe. to determine when the company should con-               shareholders with the recognition of a purchase liability at the
       solidate based on substance, siemens considers the circum-                respective exercise price. the non-controlling interests partici-
       stances listed in sic-12.10 as additional indicators regarding a          pate in profits and losses during the reporting period.
       relationship in which siemens controls an spe. siemens looks
       at these sic-12.10 circumstances as indicators and always priv-           associated companies and jointly controlled entities –
       ileges an analysis of individual facts and circumstances on a             companies in which siemens has the ability to exercise signifi-
       case-by-case basis. associated companies are recorded in the              cant influence over operating and financial policies (generally
       consolidated financial statements using the equity method of              through direct or indirect ownership of 20% to 50% of the vot-
       accounting. companies in which siemens has joint control are              ing rights) and jointly controlled entities are recorded in the
       also recorded using the equity method.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.   corporate ­governance                     155   c.   combined ­management report
262

consolidated financial statements using the equity method of                                   during the period, whereas cash and cash equivalents are
accounting and are initially recognized at cost. the following                                 translated at the spot exchange rate at the end of the reporting
policies equally apply to associated companies and jointly con-                                period.
trolled entities. where necessary, adjustments are made to
bring the accounting policies in line with those of siemens.                                   the exchange rate of the u.s. dollar, siemens’ significant cur-
the excess of siemens’ initial investment in associated compa-                                 rency outside the euro zone used in the preparation of the
nies over siemens’ ownership percentage in the underlying                                      consolidated financial statements is as follows:
net assets of those companies is attributed to certain fair value
adjustments with the remaining portion recognized as good-
will. goodwill relating to the acquisition of associated compa-                                                                           year-end exchange         annual average rate
                                                                                                                                          rate €1 quoted into           €1 quoted into
nies is included in the carrying amount of the investment and
                                                                                                                                                  currencies                 currencies
is not amortized but is tested for impairment as part of the                                                                                 specified below            specified below
overall investment in the associated company. siemens’ share                                                                                                                year ended
                                                                                                                                              september 30,              september 30,
of its associated companies’ post-acquisition profits or losses
is recognized in the consolidated statements of income, and                                      currency                 iso code         2013          2012         2013        2012

its share of post-acquisition movements in equity that have not                                  u.s. dollar                 usd          1.351        1.293        1.313       1.303

been recognized in the associates’ profit or loss is recognized
directly in equity. the cumulative post-acquisition movements
are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment in
the associated company. when siemens’ share of losses in an                                    foreign currency transaction – transactions that are de-
associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associ-                               nominated in a currency other than the functional currency of
ate, siemens does not recognize further losses, unless it incurs                               an entity, are recorded at that functional currency applying the
obligations or makes payments on behalf of the associate. the                                  spot exchange rate at the date when the underlying transac-
interest in an associate is the carrying amount of the invest-                                 tions are initially recognized. at the end of the reporting peri-
ment in the associate together with any long-term interests                                    od, foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabili-
that, in substance, form part of siemens’ net investment in the                                ties are revalued to functional currency applying the spot ex-
associate. intercompany results arising from transactions be-                                  change rate prevailing at that date. gains and losses arising
tween siemens and its associated companies are eliminated to                                   from these foreign currency revaluations are recognized in net
the extent of siemens’ interest in the associated company.                                     income. those foreign currency-denominated transactions
siemens determines at each reporting date whether there is                                     which are classified as non-monetary are remeasured using
any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is                                 the historical spot exchange rate.
impaired. if this is the case, siemens calculates the amount of
impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount                                    revenue recognition – under the condition that persuasive
of the associate and its carrying value. upon loss of significant                              evidence of an arrangement exists revenue is recognized to
influence over the associate, siemens measures and recognizes                                  the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will
any retaining investment at its fair value. any difference be-                                 flow to the company and the revenue can be reliably mea-
tween the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of signif-                                sured, regardless of when the payment is being made. in cases
icant influence and the fair value of the retaining investment                                 where the inflow of economic benefits is not probable due to
and proceeds from disposal is recognized in profit or loss.                                    customer related credit risks the revenue recognized is subject
                                                                                               to the amount of payments irrevocably received. revenue is
foreign currency translation – the assets, including good-                                     measured at the fair value of the consideration received or re-
will, and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, where the function-                             ceivable net of discounts and rebates and excluding taxes or
al currency is other than the euro, are translated using the                                   duty. the company assesses its revenue arrangements against
spot exchange rate at the end of the reporting period, while                                   specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal
the consolidated statements of income are translated using                                     or agent. the following specific recognition criteria must also
average exchange rates during the period. differences arising                                  be met before revenue is recognized:
from such translations are recognized within equity and re-
classified to net income when the gain or loss on disposal of                                  sale of goods: revenue from the sale of goods is recognized
the foreign subsidiary is recognized. the consolidated state-                                  when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods
ments of cash flow are translated at average exchange rates                                    have passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                               357     e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                          263
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      sales from construction contracts: a construction contract is a             tal arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate
      contract specifically negotiated for the construction of an asset           units of accounting based on their relative fair values. howev-
      or a combination of assets that are closely interrelated or inter-          er, if in rare cases fair value evidence is available for the unde-
      dependent in terms of their design, technology and function                 livered but not for one or more of the delivered elements, the
      or their ultimate purpose or use. when the outcome of a con-                amount allocated to the delivered element(s) equals the total
      struction contract can be estimated reliably, revenues from                 arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the
      construction-type projects are recognized under the percent-                undelivered element(s) (residual method). if the criteria for
      age-of-completion method, based on the percentage of costs                  the separation of units of accounting are not met, revenue is
      to date compared to the total estimated contract costs. an ex-              deferred until such criteria are met or until the period in which
      pected loss on the construction contract is recognized as an                the last undelivered element is delivered.
      expense immediately. when the outcome of a construction
      contract cannot be estimated reliably (1) revenue is recognized             interest income: interest is recognized using the effective in-
      only to the extent contract costs incurred are probable of being            terest method.
      recoverable, and (2) contract costs are recognized as an ex-
      pense in the period in which they are incurred.                             royalties: royalties are recognized on an accrual basis in ac-
                                                                                  cordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
      during project execution, variation orders by the customer for
      a change in the scope of the work to be performed under the                 income from lease arrangements: operating lease income for
      contract may be received leading to an increase or a decrease               equipment rentals is recognized on a straight-line basis over
      in contract revenue. examples of such variations are changes                the lease term. an arrangement that is not in the legal form of
      in the specifications or design of the asset and changes in the             a lease is accounted for as a lease if it is dependent on the use
      duration of the contract. as the scope of work to be performed              of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a
      changes also in case of contract terminations, such termina-                right to use the asset. receivables from finance leases, in which
      tions are considered to be a subset of variations. therefore the            siemens as lessor transfers substantially all the risks and re-
      requirements of ias 11 relating to variations are applied to con-           wards incidental to ownership to the customer are recognized
      tract terminations, irrespective of whether the contract is ter-            at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. finance
      minated by the customer, siemens or both. in accordance with                income is subsequently recognized based on a pattern reflect-
      the requirements of ias 11 relating to changes in estimates,                ing a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment us-
      the estimates of the total contract revenue and the total con-              ing the effective interest method. a selling profit component
      tract costs are adjusted reflecting the reduced scope of work to            on manufacturing leases is recognized based on the policies for
      be performed, typically leading to a reversal of revenue recog-             outright sales. profit from sale and leaseback transactions is
      nized. this methodology is also applied to contracts for which              recognized immediately if significant risks and rewards of own-
      it is management’s best estimate that a termination is the                  ership have passed to the buyer, the leaseback results in an op-
      most likely scenario, but which have not yet been terminated.               erating lease and the transaction is established at fair value.

      rendering of services: revenues from service transactions are               dividends: dividends are recognized when the right to receive
      recognized as services are performed. for long-term service                 payment is established.
      contracts, revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis
      over the term of the contract or, if the performance pattern is              functional costs – in general, operating expenses by types
      other than straight-line, as the services are provided, i.e. under          are assigned to the functions following the functional area
      the percentage-of-completion method as described above.                     of the corresponding profit and cost centers. expenses relat-
                                                                                   ing to cross-functional initiatives or projects are assigned to
      sales from multiple element arrangements: sales of goods and                 the ­respective functional costs based on an appropriate allo-
      services as well as software arrangements sometimes involve                  cation principle. regarding amortization see       note 16 other

      the provision of multiple elements. in these cases, the compa-              intan­g ible assets , regarding depreciation see    note 17 prop-

      ny determines whether the contract or arrangement contains                   ert y, pl ant and equipment and regarding employee benefit

      more than one unit of accounting. if certain criteria are met,              ­expenses see       note 34 personnel costs .

      foremost if the delivered element(s) has (have) value to the
      customer on a stand-alone basis, the arrangement is separated               government grants – government grants are recognized
      and the appropriate revenue recognition convention is then                  when there is reasonable assurance that the conditions at-
      applied to each separate unit of accounting. generally, the to-             tached to the grants are complied with and the grants will be




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.   corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
264

received. grants awarded for the purchase or the production of                                 and development costs incur that are to be compensated. gov-
fixed assets (grants related to assets) are generally offset                                   ernment grants for future research and development costs are
against the acquisition or production costs of the respective                                  recorded as deferred income.
assets and reduce future depreciations accordingly. grants
awarded for other than non-current assets (grants related to                                   earnings per share – basic earnings per share are computed
income) are reported in the consolidated statements of in-                                     by dividing income from continuing operations, income from
come under the same functional area as the corresponding ex-                                   discontinued operations and net income, all attributable to or-
penses. they are recognized as income over the periods neces-                                  dinary shareholders of siemens ag by the weighted average
sary to match them on a systematic basis to the costs that are                                 number of shares outstanding during the year. diluted earn-
intended to be compensated. government grants for future                                       ings per share are calculated by assuming conversion or exer-
expenses are recorded as deferred income.                                                      cise of all potentially dilutive securities and share-based pay-
                                                                                               ment plans.
product-related expenses and losses from onerous con-
tracts – provisions for estimated costs related to product war-                                goodwill – goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for
ranties are recorded in line item cost of sales at the time the                                impairment annually, as well as whenever there are events or
related sale is recognized, and are established on an individual                               changes in circumstances (triggering events) which suggest
basis, except for the standard product business. the estimates                                 that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. goodwill is
reflect historic experience of warranty costs, as well as infor-                               carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
mation regarding product failure experienced during construc-
tion, installation or testing of products. in the case of new                                  the goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of a
products, expert opinions and industry data are also taken into                                cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units rep-
consideration in estimating product warranty provisions. ex-                                   resented by a division or equivalent, which is the lowest level
pected losses from onerous contracts are recognized in the pe-                                 at which goodwill is monitored for internal management pur-
riod when the current estimate of total contract costs exceeds                                 poses.
contract revenue.
                                                                                               for the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a
research and development costs – costs of research activi-                                     business combination is allocated to the cash-generating unit
ties undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or                                 or the group of cash-generating units that is expected to bene-
technical knowledge and understanding are expensed as in-                                      fit from the synergies of the business combination. if the car-
curred.                                                                                        rying amount of the cash-generating unit or the group of
                                                                                               cash-generating units, to which the goodwill is allocated, ex-
costs for development activities, whereby research findings                                    ceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss on goodwill
are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or                                   allocated to this cash-generating unit or this group of
substantially improved products and processes, are capitalized                                 cash-generating units is recognized. the recoverable amount
if (1) development costs can be measured reliably, the product                                 is the higher of the cash-generating unit’s or the group of
or process is (2) technically and (3) commercially feasible, (4)                               cash-generating units’ fair value less costs to sell and its value
future economic benefits are probable and (5) siemens in-                                      in use. if either of these amounts exceeds the carrying
tends, and (6) has sufficient resources, to complete develop-                                  amount, it is not always necessary to determine both amounts.
ment and to use or sell the asset. the costs capitalized include                               these values are generally determined based on discounted
the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attribut-                              cash flow calculations. impairment losses on goodwill are not
able expenditure that serves to prepare the asset for use. such                                reversed in future periods if the recoverable amount exceeds
capitalized costs are included in line item other intangible as-                               the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or the group
sets as other internally generated intangible assets. other de-                                of cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
velopment costs are expensed as incurred. capitalized devel-
opment costs are stated at cost less accumulated amortization                                  other intangible assets – the company amortizes intangible
and impairment losses with an amortization period of general-                                  assets with finite useful lives on a straight-line basis over their
ly three to five years.                                                                        respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual
                                                                                               values. estimated useful lives for software, patents, licenses
government grants for research and development activities                                      and other similar rights generally range from three to five
are offset against research and development costs. they are                                    years, except for intangible assets with finite useful lives ac-
recognized as income over the periods in which the research                                    quired in business combinations. intangible assets acquired in




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                     265
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      business combinations primarily consist of customer relation-                 or groups of assets, the impairment test is not performed at an
      ships and technology. useful lives in specific acquisitions                   individual asset level, instead, it is performed at the level of
      ranged from seven to twenty-five years for customer relation-                 the cash-generating unit the asset belongs to. if such assets
      ships and from three to 18 years for technology. intangible as-               are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recog-
      sets which are determined to have indefinite useful lives as                  nized is measured by the amount by which the carrying
      well as intangible assets not yet available for use are not amor-             amount of the assets or cash-generating unit exceeds their re-
      tized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually.                   coverable amount. if the fair value cannot be determined, the
                                                                                    assets’ value in use is applied as their recoverable amount. the
      property, plant and equipment – property, plant and equip-                    assets’ value in use is measured by discounting their estimated
      ment is valued at cost less accumulated depreciation and im-                  future cash flows. if there is an indication that the reasons
      pairment losses. this also applies to property classified as in-              which caused the impairment no longer exist, siemens assess-
      vestment property. investment property consists of property                   es the need to reverse all or a portion of the impairment.
      held either to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both
      and not used in production or for administrative purposes. the                the company ’s property, plant and equipment and other in-
      fair value disclosed for investment property is primarily based               tangible assets to be disposed of are recorded at the lower of
      on a discounted cash flow approach except for certain cases                   carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell and deprecia-
      which are based on appraisal values.                                          tion is ceased.

      if the costs of certain components of an item of property, plant              discontinued operations and non-current assets held
      and equipment are significant in relation to the total cost of                for disposal – discontinued operations are reported when a
      the item, they are accounted for and depreciated separately.                  component of an entity comprising operations and cash flows
      depreciation expense is recognized using the straight-line                    that can be clearly distinguished, operationally and for finan-
      method. residual values and useful lives are reviewed annual-                 cial reporting purposes, from the rest of the entity is classified
      ly and, if expectations differ from previous estimates, adjusted              as held for disposal or has been disposed of, if the component
      accordingly. costs of construction of qualifying assets, i.e. as-             either (1) represents a separate major line of business or geo-
      sets that require a substantial period of time to be ready for its            graphical area of operations and (2) is part of a single co-ordi-
      intended use, include capitalized interest, which is amortized                nated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or
      over the estimated useful life of the related asset. the follow-              geographical area of operations or (3) is a subsidiary acquired
      ing useful lives are assumed:                                                 exclusively with a view to resale. in the consolidated state-
                                                                                    ments of income, income (loss) from discontinued operations
                                                                                    is reported separately from income and expenses from con-
                                                                                    tinuing operations; prior periods are presented on a compara-
       factory and office buildings                            20 to 50 years       ble basis. in the consolidated statements of cash flow, the
       other buildings                                          5 to 10 years       cash flows from discontinued operations are presented sepa-
       technical machinery & equipment                          5 to 10 years       rately from cash flows of continuing operations; prior periods
       furniture & office equipment                       generally 5 years         are presented on a comparable basis. the disclosures in the
       equipment leased to others                   generally 3 to 5 years          notes to the consolidated financial statements outside
                                                                                         note 4 acquisitions, dispositions and discontinued operations

                                                                                      that refer to the consolidated statements of income and the
                                                                                      consolidated statements of cash flow relate to continuing
      impairment of property, plant and equipment and other intan-                   ­operations. siemens reports discontinued operations separately
      gible assets – the company reviews property, plant and equip-                   in     note 4 acquisitions, dispositions and discontinued opera-

      ment and other intangible assets for impairment whenever                        tions . in order to present the financial effects of a discontinued

      events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying                 operation revenues and expenses arising from intragroup
      amount of an asset may not be recoverable. in addition, intan-                transactions are eliminated except for those revenues and
      gible assets with indefinite useful lives as well as intangible               ­expenses that are considered to continue after the disposal
      assets not yet available for use are subject to an annual impair-              of the discontinued operation. in any case no profit or loss is
      ment test. recoverability of assets is measured by the compar-                 recognized for intragroup transactions.
      ison of the carrying amount of the asset to the recoverable
      amount, which is the higher of the asset’s value in use and its               siemens classifies a non-current asset or a disposal group as
      fair value less costs to sell. if assets do not generate cash in-             held for disposal if its carrying amount will be recovered prin-
      flows that are largely independent of those from other assets                 cipally through a sale transaction or through distribution to




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.     corporate ­governance                     155   c.   combined ­management report
266

shareholders rather than through continuing use. for this to                                   fined benefit obligation (dbo)), siemens considers future
be the case, the asset or disposal group must be available for                                 compensation and benefit increases, because the employee’s
immediate sale or distribution in its present condition subject                                final benefit entitlement at regular retirement age depends on
only to terms that are usual and customary for sales or dis-                                   future compensation or benefit increases. the assumptions
tributions of such assets or disposal groups and its sale or                                   used for the calculation of the dbo as of the period-end of the
­distribution must be highly probable. the disclosures in the                                  preceding fiscal year are used to determine the calculation of
 notes to consolidated financial statements outside       note 4                               service cost and interest income and expense of the following
acquisitions, dispositions and discontinued operations that                                    year. the net interest income or expense for the fiscal year will
 ­
 refer to the consolidated statements of financial position                                    be based on the discount rate for the respective year multi-
 ­
 generally relate to assets that are not held for disposal.                                    plied by the net liability at the preceding fiscal year’s peri-
 siemens reports non-current assets or disposal groups held for                                od-end date. the fair value of plan assets and dbo and thus
 disposal separately in    note 4 acquisitions, dispositions and                               the interest income on plan assets and the interest expenses
 discontinued operations . non-current assets classified as held                               on dbo are adjusted for significant events after the fiscal year
for disposal and disposal groups are measured at the lower of                                  end, such as a supplemental funding, plan changes or busi-
their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, unless                                ness combinations and disposals. the dbo includes the pres-
these items presented in the disposal group are not part of the                                ent value from the effects of taxes payable by the plan on con-
measurement scope as defined in ifrs 5, non-current assets                                     tributions or benefits relating to services already rendered.
held for sale and discontinued operations.
                                                                                               service cost and past service cost for post-employment bene-
income taxes – the company applies ias 12, income taxes.                                       fits as well as other administration costs which are unrelated
current taxes are calculated based on the profit (loss) of the                                 to the management of plan assets are allocated among func-
fiscal year and in accordance with local tax rules of the tax ju-                              tional costs (line items cost of sales, research and develop-
risdiction respectively. expected and executed additional tax                                  ment expenses, selling and general administrative expenses)
payments respectively tax refunds for prior years are also tak-                                following the functional area of the corresponding profit and
en into account. under the liability method, deferred tax as-                                  cost centers. past service cost and settlement gains (losses)
sets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences                                are recognized immediately in profit or loss when the plan
attributable to differences between the financial statement                                    amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs. administration
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their re-                              costs which are related to the management of plan assets and
spective tax bases. the effect on deferred tax assets and liabili-                             taxes directly linked to the return on plan assets and payable
ties of a change in tax rates is recognized in the income state-                               by the plan itself are included in the return on plan assets and
ment, unless related to items directly recognized in equity, in                                are recognized in other comprehensive income, net of income
the period the new laws are enacted or substantively enacted.                                  taxes. for unfunded plans, siemens recognizes a post-employ-
deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is prob-                              ment benefit liability equal to the dbo. for funded plans,
able that future taxable income will be available against which                                siemens offsets the fair value of the plan assets with the bene-
the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and                                    fit obligations. siemens recognizes the net amount, after ad-
unused tax credits can be utilized.                                                            justments for effects relating to any asset ceiling, in line item
                                                                                               post-employment benefits or in line item other current assets.
inventories – inventories are valued at the lower of acquisi-
tion or production costs and net realizable value, costs being                                 remeasurements comprise actuarial gains and losses, result-
generally determined on the basis of an average or first-in,                                   ing for example from an adjustment of the discount rate, as
first-out method. production costs comprise direct material                                    well as the difference between the return on plan assets and
and labor and applicable manufacturing overheads, including                                    the amounts included in net interest on the net defined bene-
depreciation charges. net realizable value is the estimated sell-                              fits liability (asset) and are recognized in other comprehensive
ing price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated                               income, net of income taxes.
costs of completion and selling expenses.
                                                                                               provisions – a provision is recognized in the statement of
defined benefit plans – siemens measures the entitlements                                      ­ inancial position when the company has a present legal or
                                                                                               f
of the defined benefit plans by applying the projected unit                                    constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable
credit method. the approach reflects an actuarially calculated                                 that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle
net present value of the future benefit entitlement for services                               the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
already rendered. in determining the net present value of the                                  amount of the obligation. if the effect is material, provisions
future benefit entitlement for service already rendered (de-                                   are recognized at present value by discounting the expected




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                     267
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      future cash flows at a pretax rate that reflects current market               financial instruments are recognized on the consolidated
      assessments of the time value of money. when a contract be-                   statements of financial position when siemens becomes a
      comes onerous, the present obligation under the contract is                   party to the contractual obligations of the instrument. regular
      recognized as a provision and measured at the lower of the ex-                way purchases or sales of financial assets, i.e. purchases or
      pected cost of fulfilling the contract and the expected cost of               sales under a contract whose terms require delivery of the as-
      terminating the contract as far as they exceed the expected eco-              set within the time frame established generally by regulation
      nomic benefits of the contract. additions to provisions and re-               or convention in the marketplace concerned, are accounted for
      versals are generally recognized in the consolidated statements               at the trade date.
      of income. the present value of the recognized obligations as-
      sociated with the retirement of property, plant and equipment                  initially, financial instruments are recognized at their fair val-
      (asset retirement obligations) that result from the acquisition,               ue. transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or
      construction, development or normal use of an asset is added to                issue of financial instruments are only included in determining
      the carrying amount of the related asset. the additional carry-                the carrying amount, if the financial instruments are not mea-
      ing amount is depreciated over the useful life of the related as-              sured at fair value through profit or loss. receivables from
      set. additions to and reductions from the present value of asset               ­finance leases are recognized at an amount equal to the net
      retirement obligations that result from changes in estimates are              investment in the lease. subsequently, financial assets and
      generally recognized by adjusting the carrying amount of the                  ­liabilities are measured according to the category – cash and
      related asset and provision. if the asset retirement obligation is             cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets, loans and
      settled for other than the carrying amount of the liability, the              receivables, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost or
      company recognizes a gain or loss on settlement.                              financial assets and liabilities classified as held for trading – to
                                                                                    which they are assigned.
      termination benefits – termination benefits are recognized
      in the period incurred and when the amount is reasonably es-                  cash and cash equivalents – the company considers all
      timable. termination benefits are provided as a result of an en-              highly liquid investments with less than three months maturi-
      tity ’s offer made in order to encourage voluntary redundancy                 ty from the date of acquisition to be cash equivalents. cash
      before the normal retirement date or from an entity ’s decision               and cash equivalents are measured at cost.
      to terminate the employment. termination benefits in accor-
      dance with ias 19r, employee benefits, are recognized as a lia-               available-for-sale financial assets – investments in equity
      bility and an expense when the entity can no longer withdraw                  instruments, debt instruments and fund shares are all classi-
      the offer of those benefits.                                                  fied as available-for-sale financial assets and are measured at
                                                                                    fair value, if reliably measurable. unrealized gains and losses,
      financial instruments – a financial instrument is any con-                    net of applicable deferred income tax expenses, are recognized
      tract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a finan-         in line item other comprehensive income, net of income taxes.
      cial liability or equity instrument of another entity. financial              provided that fair value cannot be reliably determined,
      assets of the company mainly include cash and cash equiva-                    siemens measures available-for-sale financial instruments at
      lents, available-for-sale financial assets, trade receivables,                cost. this applies to equity instruments that do not have a
      loans receivable receivables from finance leases and derivative               quoted market price in an active market, and decisive parame-
      financial instruments with a positive fair value. cash and cash               ters cannot be reliably estimated to be used in valuation mod-
      equivalents are not included within the category available-for-               els for the determination of fair value.
      sale financial assets as these financial instruments are not sub-
      ject to fluctuations in value. siemens does not make use of the               when available-for-sale financial assets incur a decline in fair
      category held to maturity. financial liabilities of the company               value below acquisition cost and there is objective evidence
      mainly comprise notes and bonds, loans from banks, trade                      that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss that has been
      payables, obligations under finance leases and derivative fi-                 recognized in equity is removed from equity and recognized
      nancial instruments with a negative fair value. siemens does                  in the consolidated statements of income. the company con-
      not make use of the option to designate financial assets or finan-            siders all available evidence such as market conditions and
      cial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss at inception            prices, investee-specific factors and the duration as well as
      (fair value option). based on their nature, financial instru-                 the extent to which fair value is less than acquisition cost
      ments are classified as financial assets and financial liabilities            in evaluating potential impairment of its available-for-sale
      measured at cost or amortized cost and financial assets and                   financial assets. the company considers a decline in fair
                                                                                    ­
      financial liabilities measured at fair value and as receivables               ­
                                                                                    value as objective evidence of impairment, if the decline
      from finance leases.                                                          ­exceeds 20% of costs or continues for more than six months.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                   117   b.   corporate ­governance                     155   c.   combined ­management report
268

an impairment loss for debt instruments is reversed in                                         share-based payment – ifrs 2, share-based payment, dis-
­sub­sequent periods, if the reasons for the impairment no                                     tinguishes between cash-settled and equity-settled share-
 ­longer exist.                                                                                based payment transactions. for both types, the fair value is
                                                                                               measured at grant date and compensation expense is recog-
loans and receivables – financial assets classified as loans                                   nized over the vesting period during which the employees be-
and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the ef-                                   come unconditionally entitled to the awards granted.
fective interest method less any impairment losses. impair-                                    cash-settled awards are re-measured at fair value at the end of
ment losses on trade and other receivables are recognized us-                                  each reporting period and upon settlement. the fair value of
ing separate allowance accounts. loans and receivables bear-                                   share-based awards, such as stock awards, matching shares,
ing no or lower interest rates compared to market rates with a                                 and shares granted under the jubilee share program, is deter-
maturity of more than one year are discounted.                                                 mined as the market price of siemens shares, considering
                                                                                               ­dividends during the vesting period the grantees are not enti-
financial liabilities – siemens measures financial liabilities,                                 tled to and market conditions and non-vesting conditions, if
except for derivative financial instruments, at amortized cost                                  applicable.
using the effective interest method.
                                                                                               prior-year information – the presentation of certain pri-
derivative financial instruments – derivative financial in-                                    or-year information has been reclassified to conform to the
struments, such as foreign currency exchange contracts and                                     current year presentation. in fiscal 2013, in the consolidated
interest rate swap contracts, are measured at fair value. deriv-                               statements of cash flow, the company changed retrospective-
 ative financial instruments are classified as held for trading un-                            ly the presentation of salary withholdings of share-based pay-
 less they are designated as hedging instruments, for which                                    ment granted to employees to better reflect the nature of the
 hedge accounting is applied. changes in the fair value of deriv-                              transaction. in fiscal 2012 €134 million were retrospectively re-
ative financial instruments are recognized periodically either                                 classified from cash flows from financing activities to cash
in net income or, in the case of a cash flow hedge, in line item                               flows from operating activities (continuing operations).
other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (applicable
deferred income tax). certain derivative instruments embed-                                    recently adopted accounting
ded in host contracts are also accounted for separately as                                     pronouncements
­derivatives.                                                                                  as of october 1, 2012, the company early adopted ias 19, em-
                                                                                               ployee benefits (revised 2011; ias 19r), which was issued by
fair value hedges – the carrying amount of the hedged item is                                  the iasb in june 2011. the standard is effective for annual peri-
adjusted by the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk.                                  ods beginning on or after january 1, 2013; early application is
where an unrecognized firm commitment is designated as                                         permitted. the standard is applied retrospectively. the amend-
hedged item, the subsequent cumulative change in its fair val-                                 ment was endorsed by the eu in june 2012.
ue is recognized as a separate financial asset or liability with
corresponding gain or loss recognized in net income.                                           the following amendments to ias 19 have a significant im-
                                                                                               pact on the company ’s consolidated financial statements:
for hedged items carried at amortized cost, the adjustment is                                  ias 19r replaces interest cost and expected return on assets
amortized until maturity of the hedged item. for hedged firm                                   with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the
commitments the initial carrying amount of the assets or lia-                                  discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation
bilities that result from meeting the firm commitments are                                     to the net defined benefit liability (asset). net interest on the
adjusted to include the cumulative changes in the fair value                                   net defined benefit liability (asset) comprises interest income
that were previously recognized as separate financial assets or                                on plan assets and interest cost on the defined benefit obliga-
liabilities.                                                                                   tion. the difference between the interest income on plan as-
                                                                                               sets and the return on plan assets is included in line item
cash flow hedges – the effective portion of changes in the fair                                remeasurements of defined benefit plans and recognized in
value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedg-                                  the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. a
es are recognized in line item other comprehensive income,                                     lesser effect results from the recognition of unvested past
net of income taxes (applicable deferred income tax), and any                                  service costs in income immediately when incurred instead
ineffective portion is recognized immediately in net income.                                   of amortization over the vesting period as well as from recog-
amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified into net in-                                    nizing other administration costs which are unrelated to the
come in the same periods in which the hedged item ­affects net                                 management of plan assets when the administration services
income.                                                                                        are provided. the elimination of the corridor approach does




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                   269
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      not affect the company. the adoption of ias 19r did not result                     the following tables present the impacts of the changes in
      in significant effects on line items total comprehensive in-                       ­accounting policy. impacts to the opening balance as of octo-
      come as well as total equity.                                                       ber 1, 2011 as well as impacts to the prior period presented are:

              consolidated statements of financial position

                                                                                                  september 30, 2012                                        as of october 1, 2011
       (in millions of €)                                        pre-adjustment        adjustment      post-adjustment    pre-adjustment           adjustment   post-adjustment
       total assets                                                   108,282                  (31)         108,251                 104,243              (33)         104,210
           thereof deferred tax assets                                  3,777                  (29)            3,748                  3,206              (31)             3,175
       total liabilities                                               76,980                 (153)           76,827                 72,087             (149)           71,938
        thereof post-employment benefits                               9,926                 (125)            9,801                  7,307             (120)             7,188
       total equity                                                    31,302                  122            31,424                 32,156              116            32,271
           thereof retained earnings                                   22,756                  122            22,877                 25,881              116            25,996




              consolidated statement of income

                                                                                      year ended september 30, 2012                               year ended september 30, 2011
       (in millions of €; per share amounts in €)                pre-adjustment        adjustment      post-adjustment    pre-adjustment           adjustment   post-adjustment
       income from continuing operations
       before income taxes                                              7,002                 (366)            6,636                  9,248             (485)             8,763
           thereof interest income                                      2,240             (1,301)                939                  2,207           (1,362)               845
           thereof interest expenses                                   (1,727)                 967              (760)                (1,715)             929               (786)
       income tax expenses                                             (2,068)                  74            (1,994)                (2,225)              88             (2,137)
       income from continuing operations                                4,934                 (292)            4,642                  7,023             (397)             6,625
       net income                                                       4,590                 (307)            4,282                  6,321             (422)             5,899
       basic earnings per share
           income from continuing operations                              5.48                (0.33)             5.15                  7.83            (0.46)              7.37
           net income                                                     5.09                (0.35)             4.74                  7.04            (0.48)              6.55
       diluted earnings per share
           income from continuing operations                              5.43                (0.33)             5.10                  7.74            (0.45)              7.29
           net income                                                     5.04                (0.35)             4.69                  6.96            (0.48)              6.48




      if the company had not applied ias 19r as of october 1, 2012,                      for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2012. correspondingly,
      line items interest income and interest expenses recognized                        line item remeasurements of defined benefit plans recognized
      in the consolidated statement of income for fiscal 2013 would                      in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income
      have increased by €1,463 million and €798 million, respec­                         would have decreased by €538 million net of tax in fiscal 2013.
      tively, based on the expected return on plan assets as applied

              consolidated statement of comprehensive income

                                                                                      year ended september 30, 2012                               year ended september 30, 2011
       (in millions of €)                                        pre-adjustment        adjustment      post-adjustment    pre-adjustment           adjustment   post-adjustment
       net income                                                       4,590                 (307)            4,282                  6,321             (422)             5,899
       items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
       remeasurements of defined benefit plans                         (2,101)                 314            (1,787)                   (65)             412                347
       other comprehensive income,
       net of income taxes                                               (974)                 314              (661)                  (116)             412                296
       total comprehensive income                                       3,615                    6             3,622                  6,205              (10)             6,195




      92     a.   to our shareholders                      117   b.   corporate ­governance                              155   c.     combined ­management report
270

recent accounting pronouncements,                                                              by the european union. siemens will adopt ifrs 13 in fiscal
not yet adopted                                                                                2014. regarding financial instruments, the majority of changes
the following pronouncements, issued by the iasb, are not yet                                  required by ifrs 13 have already been introduced, mainly by
effective and have not yet been adopted by the company:                                        amendments to ifrs 7, financial instruments: disclosures. the
                                                                                               company does not expect a material impact on the consolidat-
in december 2011, the iasb issued amendments to ias 32,                                        ed financial statements upon adopting ifrs 13.
­financial instruments: presentation and ifrs 7, financial in-
 struments: disclosures regarding offsetting of financial assets                               in november 2009, the iasb issued ifrs 9, financial instru-
 and financial liabilities. the amendment to ias 32 clarifies the                              ments. this standard is the first phase of the iasb’s three-
 existing offsetting rules and is effective for reporting periods                              phase project to replace ias 39, financial instruments: recog-
 beginning on or after january 1, 2014, early application is per-                              nition and measurement. ifrs 9 amends the classification and
 mitted, however it requires the application of the amendments                                 measurement requirements for financial assets, including
 to ifrs 7. these amendments to ifrs 7 expand the disclosure                                   some hybrid contracts. it uses a single approach to determine
 requirements for financial assets and financial liabilities offset                            whether a financial asset is measured at amortized cost or at
 in the statements of financial position including netting agree-                              fair value, depending on how an entity manages its financial
 ments where netting is subject to certain future events. this                                 instruments (its business model) and the contractual cash
 amendment is effective for reporting periods beginning on or                                  flow characteristics of the financial assets. in october 2010,
after january 1, 2013. both amendments were endorsed by the                                    most of the requirements for financial liabilities were carried
european union in december 2012.                                                               forward unchanged from ias 39 to ifrs 9. in december 2011,
                                                                                               ifrs 9 was amended to not require the restatement of compar-
ifrs 10 provides a comprehensive concept of control as the de-                                 ative-period financial statements upon initial application, to
termining factor in whether an entity should be included with-                                 require additional disclosures and to defer the mandatory ef-
in the consolidated financial statements. the standard pro-                                    fective date to annual reporting periods beginning on or after
vides additional guidance to assist in the determination of con-                               january 1, 2015. as part of its current project classification and
trol where this is difficult to assess.                                                        measurement: limited amendments to ifrs 9, however, the
                                                                                               iasb tentatively decided in july 2013 that the mandatory effec-
ifrs 11 provides guidance for the accounting of joint arrange-                                 tive date should be deferred again and left open depending on
ments by focusing on the rights and obligations of the ar-                                     the finalization of the limited amendments and the second
rangement, rather than its legal form.                                                         phase of ifrs 9, impairment methodology. early application
                                                                                               would still be permitted. the european financial reporting ad-
ifrs 12 is a new and comprehensive standard on disclosure re-                                  visory group has postponed its endorsement advice on ifrs 9
quirements for all forms of interests in other entities, includ-                               as currently issued. due to the ongoing changes to ifrs 9 by
ing joint arrangements, associates, structured entities and off                                the iasb the company ’s assessment of the impacts of adopt-
balance sheet vehicles.                                                                        ing ifrs 9 on the company ’s consolidated financial state-
                                                                                               ments is still ongoing.
ifrs 10, 11, 12 and the consequential amendments to ias 27
and ias 28 are effective for annual periods beginning on or af-
ter january 1, 2013. these new or amended standards may be                                     note 3      critical accounting estimates
adopted early. the standards are to be applied on a retrospec-
tive basis. in december 2012, ifrs 10, 11, 12, and the conse-                                  siemens’ consolidated financial statements are prepared in
quential amendments to ias 27 and ias 28 were endorsed by                                      accordance with ifrs as issued by the iasb and as adopted by
the european union. siemens will adopt ifrs 10, 11, 12, and the                                the eu. siemens’ significant accounting policies, as described
consequential amendments to ias 27 and ias 28 in fiscal 2014.                                  in    note 2 summary of significant accounting policies are es-

the company does not expect a material impact on its consoli-                                  sential to understanding the company ’s results of operations,
dated financial statements from these standards.                                               financial positions and cash flows. certain of these accounting
                                                                                               policies require critical accounting estimates that involve com-
in may 2011, the iasb issued ifrs 13, fair value measurement.                                  plex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions,
the new standard defines fair value and standardizes disclo-                                   some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncer-
sures on fair value measurements of both financial and non-fi-                                 tain and susceptible to change. such critical accounting esti-
nancial instrument items. the new standard is applicable for                                   mates could change from period to period and have a material
annual periods beginning on or after january 1, 2013; early                                    impact on the company ’s results of operations, financial posi-
adoption is permitted. in december 2012, ifrs 13 was endorsed                                  tions and cash flows. critical accounting estimates could also




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    271
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      involve estimates where management reasonably could have                    ­ llowance derived from a portfolio-based analysis of historical
                                                                                  a
      used a different estimate in the current accounting period.                 bad debts, a decline of receivables in volume results in a corre-
      management cautions that future events often vary from fore-                sponding reduction of such provisions and vice versa. as of
      casts and that estimates routinely require adjustment.                      september 30, 2013 and 2012, siemens recorded a total valua-
                                                                                  tion allowance for trade and other receivables of €1,147 million
      revenue recognition on construction contracts – the                         and €1,190 million, respectively.
      company ’s sectors, particularly energy, industry and infra-
      structure & cities, conduct a significant portion of their busi-            impairment – siemens tests at least annually whether good-
      ness under construction contracts with customers. the com-                  will has incurred any impairment, in accordance with its ac-
      pany accounts for construction projects using the percent-                  counting policy. the determination of the recoverable amount
      age-of-completion method, recognizing revenue as perfor-                    of a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating units
      mance on contract progresses. certain long-term service con-                to which goodwill is allocated involves the use of estimates by
      tracts are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion                 management. the outcome predicted by these estimates is in-
      method as well. this method places considerable importance                  fluenced e.g. by the successful integration of acquired enti-
      on accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards com-                ties, volatility of capital markets, interest rate developments,
      pletion and may involve estimates on the scope of deliveries                foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the outlook on eco-
      and services required for fulfilling the contractually defined              nomic trends. the recoverable amount is the higher of the
      obligations. these significant estimates include total contract             cash-generating unit’s or the group of cash-generating units’
      costs, total contract revenues, contract risks, including techni-           fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. the company
      cal, political and regulatory risks, and other judgments. under             generally uses discounted cash flow based methods to deter-
      the percentage-of-completion method, changes in estimates                   mine these values. these discounted cash flow calculations
      may lead to an increase or decrease of revenue. the creditwor-              use five-year projections that are based on financial forecasts.
      thiness of our customers is taken into account in estimating                cash flow projections take into account past experience and
      the probability that economic benefits associated with a con-               represent management’s best estimate about future develop-
      tract will flow to the company. in addition, we need to assess              ments. cash flows after the planning period are extrapolated
      whether the contract is expected to continue or to be termi-                using individual growth rates. key assumptions on which
      nated. in determining whether the continuation or termina-                  management has based its determination of fair value less
      tion of a contract is expected to be the most likely scenario, all          costs to sell and value in use include estimated growth rates,
      relevant facts and circumstances relating to the contract are               weighted average cost of capital and tax rates. these esti-
      considered on an individual basis. for contracts expected to                mates, including the methodology used, can have a material
      be continued, amounts already included in revenue for which                 impact on the respective values and ultimately the amount of
      collectability ceases to be probable are recognized as an ex-               any goodwill impairment. likewise, whenever property, plant
      pense. for contracts expected to be terminated, including ter-              and equipment, other intangible assets and investments ac-
      minations due to expected payment defaults of our customers                 counted for using the equity method are tested for impair-
      or terminations due to force majeure events, the estimates on               ment, the determination of the assets’ recoverable amount in-
      the scope of deliveries and services provided under the con-                volves the use of estimates by management that can have a
      tracts are revised accordingly, typically resulting in a decrease           material impact on the respective values and ultimately the
      of revenue in the respective reporting period. management of                amount of any impairment.
      the operating divisions continually reviews all estimates in-
      volved in such construction contracts and adjusts them as                   non-current assets and disposal groups classified as
      necessary.                                                                  held for disposal – assets held for disposal and disposal
                                                                                  groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount
      trade and other receivables – the allowance for doubtful                    and their fair value less costs to sell. the determination of the
      accounts involves significant management judgment and re-                   fair value less costs to sell includes the use of management
      view of individual receivables based on individual customer                 estimates and assumptions that tend to be uncertain.
      creditworthiness, current economic trends including the de-
      velopments of the european sovereign debt crisis and analysis               employee benefit accounting – post-employment benefits –
      of historical bad debts on a portfolio basis. for the determina-            obligations for pension and other post-employment benefits
      tion of the country-specific component of the individual allow-             and related net periodic benefit costs are determined in accor-
      ance, siemens also consider country credit ratings, which are               dance with actuarial valuations. these valuations rely on key
      centrally determined based on information from external rat-                assumptions including discount rates, expected compensation
      ing agencies. regarding the determination of the valuation                  increases, rate of pension progression and mortality rates. the




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.   corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
272

discount rate assumptions are determined by reference to                                       judgment in determining whether there is a present obligation
yields on high-quality corporate bonds of appropriate duration                                 as a result of a past event at the end of the reporting period,
and currency at the end of the reporting period. in case such                                  whether it is more likely than not that such a proceeding will
yields are not available discount rates are based on govern-                                   result in an outflow of resources and whether the amount of
ment bonds yields. due to changing market, economic and so-                                    the obligation can be reliably estimated. the company periodi-
cial conditions the underlying key assumptions may differ                                      cally reviews the status of these proceedings with both inside
from actual developments and may lead to significant changes                                   and outside counsel. these judgments are subject to change
in pension and other post-employment benefit obligations.                                      as new information becomes available. the required amount
such differences are recognized in full through line item other                                of a provision may change in the future due to new develop-
comprehensive income, net of income taxes in the period in                                     ments in the particular matter. revisions to estimates may sig-
which they occur without affecting profit or loss.                                             nificantly impact future net income. upon resolution, siemens
                                                                                               may incur charges in excess of the recorded provisions for
provisions – significant estimates are involved in the deter-                                  such matters. it cannot be excluded that the financial position
mination of provisions related to onerous contracts, warranty                                  or results of operations of siemens will be materially affected
costs, asset retirement obligations and legal proceedings. a                                   by an unfavorable outcome of legal or regulatory proceedings
significant portion of the business of certain operating divi-                                 or government investigations.
sions is performed pursuant to long-term contracts, often for
large projects, in germany and abroad, awarded on a competi-                                   income taxes – siemens operates in various tax jurisdictions
tive bidding basis. siemens records a provision for onerous                                    and therefore has to determine tax positions under respective
sales contracts when current estimates of total contract costs                                 local tax laws and tax authorities’ views which can be complex
exceed expected contract revenue. such estimates are subject                                   and subject to different interpretations of taxpayers and local
to change based on new information as projects progress to-                                    tax authorities. deferred tax assets are recognized if sufficient
wards completion. onerous sales contracts are identified by                                    future taxable profit is available, including income from fore-
monitoring the progress of the project and updating the esti-                                  casted operating earnings, the reversal of existing taxable
mate of total contract costs which also requires significant                                   temporary differences and established tax planning opportuni-
judgment relating to achieving certain performance standards,                                  ties. as of each period-end, management evaluates the recov-
for example in the fossil power generation division, in the                                    erability of deferred tax assets, based on projected future tax-
power transmission division, in the mobility & logistics divi-                                 able profits. as future developments are uncertain and partly
sion, in the rail systems division and in the healthcare sector                                beyond management’s control, assumptions are necessary to
as well as estimates involving warranty costs and estimates                                    estimate future taxable profits as well as the period in which
regarding project delays including the assessment of responsi-                                 deferred tax assets will recover. estimates are revised in the
bility splits between the contract partners for these delays.                                  period in which there is sufficient evidence to revise the as-
significant estimates and assumptions are also involved in the                                 sumption. if management considers it probable that all or a
determination of provisions related to major asset retirement                                  portion of a deferred tax asset cannot be realized, that portion
obligations. uncertainties surrounding the amount to be recog-                                 would not be recognized.
nized include, for example, the estimated costs of decommis-
sioning because of the long time frame over which future cash
outflows are expected to occur including the respective interest                                    acquisitions, dispositions
                                                                                               note 4
accretion. amongst others, the estimated cash outflows could                                   and discontinued operations
alter significantly if, and when, political developments affect
the government’s plans to develop the final storage.                                           a) acquisitions
                                                                                               in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the company completed a number of
siemens is subject to legal and regulatory proceedings in vari-                                acquisitions, which are included in the company ’s consolidated
ous jurisdictions. such proceedings may result in criminal or                                  financial statements since the date of acquisition.
civil sanctions, penalties, damage claims and other claims, or
disgorgements against the company. if it is more likely than                                   aa) acquisitions in fiscal 2013
not that an obligation of the company exists and will result in                                at the beginning of may 2013, siemens acquired all of the
an outflow of resources, a provision is recorded if the amount                                 shares of six entities constituting the rail automation business
of the obligation can be reliably estimated. regulatory and le-                                of invensys plc., u.k. (invensys), which are being integrated in
gal proceedings as well as government investigations often                                     the infrastructure & cities sector’s mobility and logistics divi-
involve complex legal issues and are subject to substantial un-                                sion. with the acquisition, siemens expanded and comple-
certainties. accordingly, management exercises considerable                                    mented the infrastructure & cities sector’s rail automation




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                   273
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      business. the preliminary purchase price amounts to €2,036                  ness had been included as of october 1, 2012, the impact on
      million (including €53 million cash acquired) of which €472                 consolidated revenues and consolidated net income for the
      million were paid to the invensys pension trust. the purchase               twelve months ended september 30, 2013 would have been
      price is preliminary mainly because it is subject to final agree-           €125 million and €(90) million, respectively.
      ment on the closing accounts. the following figures resulting
      from the preliminary purchase price allocation reflect the                  ab) acquisitions in fiscal 2012
      amounts recognized as of the acquisition date for each major                at the beginning of may 2012, siemens acquired all of the
      class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed: intangible as-            shares of five entities constituting the connectors and mea-
      sets €902 million, inventories €158 million, receivables €127               surements division of expro holdings uk 3 ltd. the acquired
      million, deferred income tax assets €68 million, liabilities                business engineers and manufactures subsea components
      €485 million and deferred income tax liabilities €139 million.              such as cable connectors, sensors and measuring devices.
      intangible assets mainly relate to customer relationships of                with this acquisition, siemens expanded its portfolio in the at-
      €619 million with a useful life of 18 years and technology of               tractive future market for subsea power grids. the aggregate
      €258 million with a useful life of 18 years. provisional goodwill           consideration amounts to €469 million (including €8 million
      of €1,278 million comprises intangible assets that are not sepa-            cash acquired). the acquired business is integrated into ener-
      rable such as employee know-how and expected synergy ef-                    gy sector’s oil & gas division. the following figures represent
      fects. including effects from purchase accounting and integra-              the final purchase price allocation and show the amounts rec-
      tion costs, the acquired business contributed revenues of €335              ognized as of the acquisition date for each major class of as-
      million and a net loss of €44 million to siemens for the period             sets acquired and liabilities assumed: intangible assets €162
      from acquisition to september 30, 2013. if the acquired busi-               million, property, plant and equipment €21 million, inventories
      ness had been included as of october 1, 2012, the impact on                 €18 million, receivables €25 million, liabilities €41 million and
      consolidated revenues and consolidated net income for the                   deferred income tax liabilities €35 million. intangible assets
      twelve months ended september 30, 2013 would have been                      mainly relate to customer relationships of €46 million with a
      €915 million and €(9) million, respectively.                                useful life of nine to 13 years, technology of €98 million with a
                                                                                  useful life of eight to twelve years and order backlog of €12
      at the beginning of january 2013, siemens acquired all of the               million with a useful life of two years. goodwill of €307 million
      shares in lms international nv, belgium, a leading provider of              comprises intangible assets that are not separable such as em-
      mechatronic simulation solutions, which is being integrated in              ployee know-how and expected synergy effects. including
      the industry sector’s industry automation division. with the                ­effects from purchase accounting and integration costs, the
      acquisition, siemens expanded and complemented the indus-                    acquired business contributed revenues of €57 million and
      try sector’s product lifecycle management portfolio with                     a net income of €12 million to siemens for the period from
      mechatronic simulation and testing software. the preliminary                 ­acquisition to september 30, 2012. if the acquired business
      purchase price amounts to €702 million (including €32 million                 had been included as of october 1, 2011, the impact on consoli­
      cash acquired). the following figures represent the prelimi-                  dated revenues and consolidated net income for the twelve
      nary purchase price allocation and show the amounts recog-                    months ended september 30, 2012 would have been €121 mil-
      nized as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets               lion and €41 million, respectively.
      acquired and liabilities assumed: intangible assets €398 mil-
      lion, property, plant and equipment €22 million, inventories                furthermore, in fiscal 2012, siemens completed the acquisition
      €41 million, receivables €58 million, liabilities €128 million              of a number of entities, presented in continuing operations,
      and deferred income tax liabilities €87 million. intangible as-             which are not significant individually including ruggedcom
      sets mainly relate to technology of €290 million with a useful              inc., a provider of robust, industrial-quality ethernet communi-
      life of seven to eight years and customer relationships of €105             cation products and network solutions at the industry sector’s
      million with a useful life of 16 to 20 years. provisional goodwill          industry automation division, the nem b.v. business, a spe-
      of €352 million comprises intangible assets that are not sepa-               cialist in heat recovery steam generators for combined-cycle
      rable such as employee know-how and expected synergy ef-                     (gas and steam) power plants at energy sector’s fossil power
      fects. including effects from purchase accounting and integra-              generation division and emeter corporation, a meter data
      tion costs, the acquired business contributed revenues of €94               management specialist at infrastructure & cities sector’s smart
      million and a net loss of €68 million to siemens for the period             grid division. the aggregate consideration (including cash
      from acquisition to september 30, 2013. if the acquired busi-               ­acquired) of all of these acquisitions amounts to €946 million.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.   corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
274

the following figures represent the final purchase price alloca-                               the impairment recognized on the investment in fiscal 2009
tions and show the amounts recognized for each major class                                     was partly reversed since its recoverable amount, represented
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed:                                                    by its fair value less cost to sell, derived from the agreed
                                                                                               ­
                                                                                               purchase price, exceeds the carrying amount of nsn after
                                                                                               ­applying the equity method. thus, item reversals of impair-
 (in millions of €)                                                                             ment presented in line item income (loss) from investments
 goodwill                                                                           579         accounted for using the equity method, net included €301 mil-
 technology                                                                         124         lion relating to nsn held by segment equity investments.
 customer relationships                                                             113         the investment in nsn was classified as held for disposal as
 other intangible assets                                                             50         of june 30, 2013 and equity method accounting ceased.
 other long-lived assets                                                             56         the share of losses recognized for the investment in nsn in
 trade and other receivables                                                         82         fiscal 2013 and 2012 amounted to €76 million and €741 million,
 inventories                                                                         39         respectively.
 other current assets                                                                70
 cash and cash equivalents                                                          138        the transaction closed in august 2013 and resulted in a further
 total assets acquired                                                           1,251         gain on disposal for the investment previously presented as
                                                                                               held for disposal of €76 million due to the reversal of amounts
 other liabilities and provisions                                                   153        recognized in line item other comprehensive income, net of in-
 deferred tax liabilities                                                            51        come taxes. nokia early redeemed the loan in september 2013.
 current liabilities                                                                 78
 total liabilities assumed                                                          282        bb) dispositions not qualifying for discontinued
                                                                                               operations: held for disposal
                                                                                               the consolidated statements of financial position as of sep-
                                                                                               tember 30, 2013 and 2012 include assets held for disposal of
the respective acquisitions led to non-controlling interests of                                €625 million and €106 million and liabilities held for disposal
€23 million. goodwill comprises intangible assets that are not                                 of €215 million and €39 million, respectively, that do not quali-
separable such as employee know-how and expected synergy                                       fy as discontinued operations. as of september 30, 2013, the
effects. including purchase price accounting effects and inte-                                 assets and liabilities mainly include the business unit turbo-
gration costs, the acquired entities contributed revenues of                                   care of the energy sector.
€271 million and a net loss of €6 million to siemens for the peri-
od from the respective acquisition date to september 30, 2012.                                 bc) discontinued operations
if these acquired businesses had been included as of october 1,                                general
2011, the impact on consolidated revenues and consolidated                                     net income (loss) from discontinued operations presented in
net income for the twelve months ended september 30, 2012                                      the consolidated statements of income in fiscal 2013 and 2012
would have been €389 million and €(14) million, respectively.                                  amount to €197 million (thereof €(158) million income tax) and
                                                                                               €(360) million (thereof €(77) million income tax), respectively.
b) dispositions and discontinued operations
ba) dispositions not qualifying for discontinued                                               net income (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to
operations: closed transactions                                                                shareholders of siemens ag for fiscal 2013 and 2012 amount to
dispositions in fiscal 2013                                                                    €191 million and €(360) million.
on july 1, 2013, siemens and nokia have signed an agreement
under which nokia acquires the shares held in nokia siemens                                    water technologies – discontinued operations,
networks holding b. v. (nsn) by siemens for an agreed pur-                                     assets and liabilities held for disposal
 chase price of €1,700 million. the cash consideration amounts                                 in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, siemens decided to sell its
 to €1,200 million with the remaining €500 million to be grant-                                business unit water technologies. the conditions for water
 ed as an interest bearing loan to nokia, maturing one year                                    technologies to be classified as held for disposal and discon-
­after closing.                                                                                tinued operations were fulfilled as of the fourth quarter of fis-
                                                                                               cal 2013.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                   275
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      accordingly, the results of water technologies are disclosed as                       upon classification as held for disposal and discontinued oper-
      discontinued operations in the company ’s consolidated state-                         ations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, water technologies
      ments of income for all periods presented:                                            was measured at the lower of its previous carrying amount
                                                                                            and fair value less costs to sell. the associated loss recognized
                                                                                            represents impairment of goodwill amounting to €13 million.
                                                       year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                     2013               2012       solar business – reclassification
       revenue                                                950              1,099        to continuing operations
       expenses                                               (959)           (1,081)       in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, siemens decided to sell its
       loss on the measurement to fair value                                                solar business consisting of the former business units solar
       less costs to sell or on the disposal
                                                                                            thermal energy and photovoltaics and classified it as held for
       of the disposal group constituting the
       discontinued operations                                 (24)                 –       disposal and discontinued operations since the end of fiscal
       pretax income (loss) from discontinued                                               2012. in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, the solar business no
       operations                                              (32)                18       longer fulfilled the conditions to be classified as held for dis-
       income taxes on ordinary activities                          1              (9)      posal and discontinued operations as a disposal within one
       income taxes on the loss on the                                                      year was no longer considered highly probable. regarding pho-
       measurement to fair value less costs to
       sell or on the disposal of the disposal group                                        tovoltaics, the disposal process was terminated in march 2013
       constituting the discontinued operations                     6               –       and instead the phase out of existing orders with a subsequent
       income (loss) from discontinued                                                      closure of the activities is being pursued. regarding solar
       operations, net of income taxes                         (26)                 9
                                                                                            thermal energy the disposal within one year was no longer
                                                                                            highly probable due to the worsened environment in the over-
                                                                                            all market for solar thermal energy as well as a decrease of out-
                                                                                            put of a solar thermal power plant within the solar thermal
      the assets and liabilities of water technologies are presented                        energy activities of siemens. therefore, the solar business is
      as held for disposal in the consolidated statements of finan-                         reported within continuing operations of the energy sector. in
      cial position as of september 30, 2013. the carrying amounts                          the third quarter of fiscal 2013, siemens decided to terminate
      of the major classes of assets and liabilities of water technolo-                     the sales process for solar thermal energy as well and instead
      gies were as follows:                                                                 is pursuing the phase out of existing orders with a subsequent
                                                                                            closure of the activities except for the solar thermal power
                                                                                            plant, which will be continued.
                                                                        september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                        2013       loss from continuing operations before income taxes regard-
       trade and other receivables                                               155        ing the solar business presented in the consolidated state-
       inventories                                                               144        ments of income for fiscal 2013 and 2012 amounted to €(255)
       financial assets                                                            35       million and €(258) million, respectively.
       goodwill                                                                  155
       other intangible assets                                                   103        as of september 30, 2012, the assets and liabilities of the solar
       property, plant and equipment                                             157        business amounting to €224 million and €126 million were
       other assets                                                                19       classified as assets and liabilities held for disposal.
       assets classified as held for disposal                                    768
                                                                                            osram – discontinued operations,
       trade payables                                                              79       assets and liabilities held for disposal
       current provisions                                                          36       in march 2011, siemens announced that it planned to publicly
       other current liabilities                                                   92       list its subsidiary osram. siemens intended to retain a mi-
       post-employment benefits                                                    13
                                                                                            nority stake in osram. the conditions for osram to be classi-
       other liabilities                                                           37
                                                                                            fied as held for disposal and discontinued operations were
       liabilities associated with assets
                                                                                            fulfilled as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2011. fac-
       classified as held for disposal                                           258
                                                                                            ing the market conditions siemens decided in june 2012 to
                                                                                            prepare, parallel and alternatively to the aforementioned plan
                                                                                            of an ­initial public offering, an offering of osram in the form




      92   a.    to our shareholders                    117    b.        corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
276

of a spin-off by issuing osram shares to the shareholders of                                    and thereafter owns 17.0% in osram. the effectiveness of the
siemens ag and a subsequent listing of these shares.                                            spin-off triggered a remeasurement of the spin-off liability at
                                                                                                fair value. the loss of control resulted in the derecognition of
the decision in june 2012 represented a significant change of                                   osram’s net assets, including non-controlling interests, the
the previous disposal plan. siemens no longer considered it                                     reclassification of components of other comprehensive in-
highly probable to complete the disposal of osram via an ini-                                   come and the recognition of the remaining stake in osram at
tial public offering by the end of calendar year 2012, resulting                                fair value. siemens applied a multiple valuation technique in
in a reversal of the previous classification of the disposal group                             order to determine the fair value of the spin-off liability as of
osram as held for disposal and discontinued operations. by                                     july 5, 2013 using the input of a discounted cash flow valua-
reversing the previous classification, siemens recognized a                                    tion and market multiples, derived from a report from an inde-
negative effect on earnings of €443 million before taxes in the                                pendent expert. the fair value of the spin-off liability repre-
third quarter of fiscal 2012 that result from depreciation / amor-                             senting 80.5% of the ownership interest in osram amounted
tization and impairments of property, plant and equipment                                      to €2,270 million; the derecognized net assets spun-off
and intangible assets and equity pick ups that were not recog-                                 amounted to €2,182 million, resulting in a difference at the
nized while osram was previously classified as discontinued                                    amount of €88 million. siemens recognized a gain of €21 mil-
operations (€123 million referring to fiscal 2011). this effect on                             lion due to the measurement of the remaining stake in osram
earnings is presented under expenses in the table below.                                       at fair value. the derecognition of the non-controlling inter-
siemens considered a listing via spin-off as highly probable in-                                ests and the reclassification of relevant components of other
cluding the high probability of the shareholders approval                                       comprehensive income resulted in a gain of €23 million and
based on past experience with other capital matters suggested                                  of €19 million, respectively. in fiscal 2013 costs to sell/­­spin-
for approval at the annual shareholders’ meeting, feedback                                      off costs amounted to €98 million. as a result, siemens
from the financial market and the economic rationale of the                                    ­recognized a total gain on the spin-off in the amount of €54
decision from a shareholder perspective. accordingly, siemens                                   million in fiscal 2013. due to the nature of the spin-off, the
classified osram as held for disposal and discontinued opera-                                   derecognition of the disposal group is presented as a non-cash
tions again. among other impacts on other income taxes (on                                      transaction.
costs to sell / spin-off costs), siemens adjusted deferred tax as-
sets according to the plan of issuing osram shares in the form                                 the results of osram are disclosed as discontinued operations
of a spin-off.                                                                                 in the company ’s consolidated statements of income for all
                                                                                               periods presented:
in november 2012, siemens called off the initial public offer-
ing plan and made available a spin-off report to its sharehold-
ers in december 2012 in order to request their approval for the                                                                                           year ended september 30,
spin-off of 80.5% of osram at the annual shareholders’ meet-                                     (in millions of €)                                               2013       2012
ing in january 2013. at the annual shareholders’ meeting the                                     revenue                                                        4,064      5,400
shareholders of siemens ag approved the spin-off of osram                                        expenses                                                       (3,745)   (5,476)
by a majority of more than 98%. in july 2013, siemens success-                                   gain on the spin-off of the disposal group
                                                                                                 constituting the discontinued operations
fully completed its planned spin-off and listing of osram. as a
                                                                                                 (prior years: costs to sell/spin-off costs)                       54         (33)
result, siemens derecognized the net carrying amount of the
                                                                                                 pretax income (loss) from discontinued
disposal group osram and the associated spin-off liability. the                                  operations                                                       372       (109)
spin-off liability which was initially recognized in the second                                  income taxes on ordinary activities                             (110)          –
quarter of fiscal 2013 based on the shareholders’ approval was                                   other income taxes
presented in other current liabilities and reflected 80.5% of the                                (on costs to sell/spin-off costs)                                 15         (26)

fair value of osram. at the end of each reporting period and at                                  income (loss) from discontinued
                                                                                                 operations, net of income taxes                                  277       (135)
the date of the actual spin-off, siemens measured the spin-off
liability at fair value with any changes recognized in retained
earnings.
                                                                                               the assets and liabilities of osram were presented as held for
effective july 5, 2013 siemens transferred 80.5% of its owner-                                 disposal in the consolidated statements of financial position
ship interest in osram in the spin-off transaction to its share-                               until the effective date of the spin-off on july 5, 2013. the car-
holders. immediately after the effectiveness of the spin-off,                                  rying amounts of the major classes of assets and liabilities of
siemens contributed 2.5% to the siemens pension trust e.v.                                     osram were as follows:




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                             357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                     277
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                         july 5,        sep. 30,                                                                 year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                  2013            2012            (in millions of €)                                          2013         2012
       cash and cash equivalents                          476                28            revenue                                                        –            –
       trade and other receivables                        850              827             expenses                                                    (40)          (35)
       inventories                                   1,009               1,044             gain (loss) on the measurement to fair
       financial assets                                   271              111             value less costs to sell or on the disposal
                                                                                           of the disposal group constituting the
       goodwill                                           274              277
                                                                                           discontinued operations                                      99            45
       other intangible assets                            193              161
                                                                                           pretax income from discontinued
       property, plant and equipment                 1,459               1,416             operations                                                   59            10
       deferred tax assets                                311              376             income taxes on ordinary activities                          12            15
       other assets                                       204              212             income taxes on the gain (loss) on the
       assets classified as held for disposal        5,046               4,450             measurement to fair value less costs to
                                                                                           sell or on the disposal of the disposal group
                                                                                           constituting the discontinued operations                      (1)          15
       trade payables                                     610              609
                                                                                           income from discontinued
       current provisions                                   98               92            operations, net of income taxes                              71            40
       other current liabilities                          434              379
       post-employment benefits                           398              488
       other liabilities                                  796              304
       liabilities associated with
       assets classified as held for disposal        2,336               1,872        former segments sv and com –
                                                                                      discontinued operations
                                                                                      net results from discontinued operations of sv activities and
                                                                                      the former operating segment com presented in the consoli-
      revenue resulting from transactions between osram and                           dated statements of income in fiscal 2013 and 2012 amounted
      joint ventures and associates of siemens in fiscal 2013 and                     to €(117) million (thereof €(81) million income tax) and €(260)
      2012 amounted to €19 million and €156 million, respectively.                    million (thereof €(73) million income tax), respectively. the
      expenses resulting from transactions between osram and                          net results in fiscal 2013 included an income tax expense of
      joint ventures and associates of siemens in fiscal 2013 and                     €84 million related to nsn. the net results in fiscal 2012 mainly
      2012 amounted to €11 million and €13 million, respectively.                     relate to com and include settlements of a matter with the
      as of september 30, 2012, receivables from and liabilities to                   greek state with a pretax impact of €(143) million (€(104) mil-
      joint ventures and associates are €39 million and €2 million,                   lion after tax) as well as negative tax effects of €115 million.
      respectively.

      siemens it solutions and services –                                             note 5          other operating income
      discontinued operations
      effective july 1, 2011, atos s.a. (atos) acquired siemens it                    in fiscal 2013 and 2012, other operating income includes gains
      solutions and services for a cash payment of €177 million;                      on sales of property, plant and equipment partially leased back
      siemens received €12.5 million newly issued shares in atos                      under operating leases mainly in fiscal 2013 and of intangible
      with a five-year lock-up commitment, a five-year €250 million                   assets of €228 million and €207 million, respectively, as well as
      convertible bond (nominal value) and entered into a sev-                        income in connection with legal and regulatory matters.
      en-year outsourcing contract worth around €5.5 billion, under
      which atos will provide managed services and system integra-
      tion to siemens. siemens retains the equity method accounted                    note 6          other operating expenses
      project herkules, disclosed in centrally managed portfolio
      activities. siemens recognized a liability for purchase price ad-               other operating expenses in fiscal 2013 and 2012 include
      justments and recorded contractual obligations, loss provi-                     ­impairment losses on goodwill, charges related to legal and
      sions and risk contingencies in connection with the sales                        regulatory matters, losses on sales of property, plant and
      agreements. in fiscal 2013 and 2012, a gain of €99 million and                   equipment and intangible assets and losses from the sale of
      €53 million resulted from purchase price adjustments. a final                    businesses.
      settlement with atos was not yet reached in fiscal 2013.




      92   a.    to our shareholders               117     b.      corporate ­governance                             155   c.   combined ­management report
278

     income (loss) from investments
note 7                                                                                                 interest income, interest expenses
                                                                                                  note 8

accounted for using the equity method,                                                            and other financial income (expenses),
net                                                                                               net


                                                               year ended september 30,                                                                      year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                   2013            2012          (in millions of €)                                             2013         2012
 share of profit (loss), net                                          247             (371)         interest income
 gains (losses) on sales, net                                           78             103          from post-employment benefits                                     3            8

 impairment                                                           (116)            (68)         interest income, other than
                                                                                                    from post-employment benefits                                  945          930
 reversals of impairment                                              301                 4
                                                                                                    interest income                                                948          939
 income (loss) from investments accounted
 for using the equity method, net                                     510             (333)         interest expenses
                                                                                                    from post-employment benefits                                  (297)       (310)
                                                                                                    interest expenses, other than
                                                                                                    from post-employment benefits                                  (493)       (450)
                                                                                                    interest expenses                                              (789)       (760)

items share of profit (loss), net, gains (losses) on sales, net                                     income (expenses)
                                                                                                    from available-for-sale financial assets, net                   (80)        103
and reversals of impairment include the effects of disposing
                                                                                                    miscellaneous financial
of siemens’ share in nsn in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013,                                      income (expenses), net                                          (74)       (108)
see     note 4 acquisitions, dispositions and discontinued oper-                                    other financial income (expenses), net                         (154)          (5)
ations . item share of profit (loss), net also includes siemens’

share in enterprise networks’ earnings (en) of €(96) million
and €(23) million, in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. due to
siemens’ commitment made to en which forms part of                                                total amounts of item interest income and (expense), other
siemens’ net investment in en, siemens recognized the previ-                                      than from post-employment benefits, were as follows:
ously unrecognized share of losses as well as the current share
of losses in fiscal 2013.
                                                                                                                                                             year ended september 30,
item gains (losses) on sales, net, in fiscal 2012, include €79                                      (in millions of €)                                             2013         2012
million gain on the partial sale of interests in bangalore inter-                                   interest income, other than
                                                                                                    from post-employment benefits                                  945          930
national airport limited.
                                                                                                    interest expenses, other than
                                                                                                    from post-employment benefits                                  (493)       (450)
in fiscal 2013 and 2012, item impairment includes €(97) million
                                                                                                    interest income (expenses), net,
and €(46) million related to an investment of siemens’ solar                                        other than from post-employment benefits                       452          480
business, see      note 4 acquisitions, dispositions and discon-                                     thereof: interest income
tinued operations .                                                                                   (expenses) of operations, net                                  (3)           9
                                                                                                     thereof: other interest income
                                                                                                      (expenses), net                                              455          471




                                                                                                  item interest income (expense) of operations, net includes in-
                                                                                                  terest income and expense primarily related to receivables
                                                                                                  from customers and payables to suppliers, interest on advanc-
                                                                                                  es from customers and advanced financing of customer con-
                                                                                                  tracts. item other interest income (expense), net includes all
                                                                                                  other interest amounts primarily consisting of interest relating
                                                                                                  to corporate debt, and related hedging activities, as well as
                                                                                                  ­interest income on corporate assets.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                        279
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      item interest income (expense) other than from post-employ-                                           note 9          income taxes
      ment benefits includes the following with respect to financial
      assets (financial liabilities) not at fair value through profit or                                    income from continuing operations before income tax is at-
      loss:                                                                                                 tributable to the following geographic regions:



                                                                        year ended september 30,                                                                     year ended september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                                      2013              2012            (in millions of €)                                        2013         2012
       total interest income on financial assets                               931               918             germany                                                 1,227        2,266
       total interest expenses on financial liabilites 1                       (767)            (796)            foreign                                                 4,615        4,370
                                                                                                                                                                         5,843        6,636
             1 relating to hedged positions, herein only the interest expenses on hedged items
                not at fair value through profit and loss is included, whereas item interest expenses,
                other than pension also contains the offsetting effect on interest of the hedging
                instrument. the difference is due to the disparities of interest rate swap contracts.

                                                                                                            income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following:
      the components of item income (expense) from available-for-
      sale financial assets, net were as follows:
                                                                                                                                                                     year ended september 30,
                                                                                                                 (in millions of €)                                        2013         2012

                                                                        year ended september 30,                 current tax:
       (in millions of €)                                                      2013              2012             german corporation and trade taxes                       543          148
       dividends received                                                        18                18             foreign income taxes                                   1,236        1,510
       gains on sales, net                                                       17              101                                                                     1,779        1,658
       impairment                                                              (116)              (17)           deferred tax:
       other                                                                         1              1             germany                                                  233          419
       income (expenses) from                                                                                     foreign                                                 (382)          (83)
       available-for-sale financial assets, net                                 (80)             103                                                                      (149)         336
                                                                                                                 income tax expenses                                     1,630        1,994




      in fiscal 2012, item gains on sales, net includes €87 million
      gains from the sale of the 25% interest in oao power machines                                         the current income tax expenses in fiscal 2013 and 2012 in-
      held by the energy sector; €66 million of the gain relate to                                          cludes adjustments recognized for current tax of prior years in
      gains recycled from other comprehensive income as of sep-                                             the amount of €92 million and €(117) million, respectively. the
      tember 30, 2011. the investment was classified as held for dis-                                       current tax expense is positively impacted by the closing of a
      posal. the transaction closed in december 2011.                                                       mutual agreement procedure regarding transfer prices be-
                                                                                                            tween germany and the u.s. in the fourth quarter of fiscal
      item miscellaneous financial income (expense), net, in fiscal                                         2013 leading to an increase of german current taxes and an
      2013 and 2012, includes gains (losses) of €95 million and                                             overcompensating decrease of foreign income taxes. in fiscal
      €(238) million, respectively, from the accretion of provisions                                        2012 the german current tax expense is positively affected by
      and the increase (decrease) in the discount rate, as well as                                          receivables due to several mutual agreement procedures.
      ­expenses as a result of allowances and write offs of finance
       ­receivables, net of reversals of €80 million and €89 million, re-                                   the deferred tax expense (benefit) in fiscal 2013 and 2012 in-
        spectively. furthermore, gains (losses) related to derivative fi-                                   cludes tax effects of the origination and reversal of temporary
        nancial instruments are included.                                                                   differences of €(297) million and €(150) million, respectively.
                                                                                                            the german deferred tax expense in fiscal 2013 is mainly relat-
                                                                                                            ed to the utilization of tax loss carryforwards.




      92   a.    to our shareholders                                     117    b.       corporate ­governance                           155   c.   combined ­management report
280

in germany, the calculation of current tax is based on a corpo-                                   deferred income tax assets and liabilities on a gross basis are
rate tax rate of 15% and a solidarity surcharge thereon of 5.5%,                                  summarized as follows:
for all distributed and retained earnings. in addition to corpo-
rate taxation, trade tax is levied on profits earned in germany.
as the german trade tax is a non deductible expense, the aver-                                                                                                                 september 30,
age trade tax rate amounts to 15% and the combined total tax                                        (in millions of €)                                                  2013           2012
rate results in 31%. deferred tax assets and liabilities are mea-                                   assets:
sured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when                                     financial assets                                                    54              52
the asset is realized or the liability is settled.                                                   other intangible assets                                            190            169
                                                                                                     property, plant and equipment                                      303            288
for foreign subsidiaries, current taxes are calculated based on                                      inventories                                                        558            551
the local tax laws and applicable tax rates in the individual for-                                   receivables                                                        682            541
eign countries. deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured                                     post-employment benefits                                          2,954         3,238
at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when                                       provisions                                                        1,685         1,677
the asset is realized or the liability is settled.                                                   liabilities                                                       2,014         2,513
                                                                                                     tax loss and credit carryforward                                   918          1,296

income tax expense (current and deferred) differs from the                                           other                                                              282            231

amounts computed by applying a combined statutory german                                               deferred tax assets                                             9,640        10,556

income tax rate of 31% as follows:                                                                  liabilities:
                                                                                                     financial assets                                                   239            236
                                                                                                     other intangible assets                                           1,582         1,407
                                                               year ended september 30,              property, plant and equipment                                      631            782
 (in millions of €)                                                   2013            2012           inventories                                                       1,700         1,857
 expected income tax expenses                                     1,811             2,058            receivables                                                       1,776         2,061
  increase (decrease) in income taxes                                                               provisions                                                         601            450
   resulting from:
                                                                                                     liabilities                                                         69            156
    non-deductible losses and expenses                                380              388
                                                                                                     other                                                              312            353
   tax-free income                                                    (346)           (398)
                                                                                                       deferred tax liabilities                                        6,910         7,302
    taxes for prior years                                               50             (59)
                                                                                                    total deferred tax assets, net                                     2,730         3,254
   change in realizability of deferred
    tax assets and tax credits                                          23             (17)
    change in tax rates                                                (31)            (39)
    foreign tax rate differential                                     (182)            (52)
   tax effect of investments accounted                                                           in assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, manage-
    for using the equity method                                        (74)            115        ment considers the extent to which it is probable that the de-
   other, net                                                           (1)              (2)      ferred tax asset will be realized. the ultimate realization of de-
 actual income tax expenses                                       1,630             1,994         ferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future
                                                                                                  taxable profits during the periods in which those temporary
                                                                                                  differences and tax loss carryforwards become deductible.
                                                                                                  management considers the expected reversal of deferred tax
the tax free income in fiscal 2013 is amongst others attribut-                                    liabilities and projected future taxable income in making this
able to the nsn disposal.                                                                         assessment. based upon the level of historical taxable income
                                                                                                  and projections for future taxable income over the periods in
                                                                                                  which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management be-
                                                                                                  lieves it is probable the company will realize the benefits of
                                                                                                  these deductible differences. as of september 30, 2013, the
                                                                                                  company has certain tax losses subject to significant limita-
                                                                                                  tions. for those losses deferred tax assets are not recognized,
                                                                                                  as it is not probable that gains will be generated to offset those
                                                                                                  losses.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                               281
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, the company had in total
      €3,341 million and €4,721 million, respectively of gross tax loss                                                                          year ended september 30,
      carryforwards. the company assumes that future operations                          (in millions of €)                                            2013         2012
      will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the deferred                    continuing operations                                       1,630        1,994
      tax assets.                                                                        discontinued operations                                       158            77
                                                                                         income and expenses recognized
                                                                                         directly in equity                                            738       (1,194)
      deferred tax assets have not been recognized with respect of
                                                                                                                                                     2,526          877
      the following items (gross amounts):



                                                                september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                2013            2012       note 10           available-for-sale financial assets
       deductible temporary differences                  150             165
       tax loss carryforward                             941             662        the following tables summarize the current portion of the
                                                     1,091               827        company ’s investment in available-for-sale financial assets:



                                                                                                                                                       september 30, 2013
      as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, €221 million and €214 mil-                                                                              unrealized    unrealized
                                                                                         (in millions of €)             cost        fair value        gain           loss
      lion, respectively the major part of the unrecognized tax loss
                                                                                         equity instruments                 6               8             2            –
      carryforwards expire over the periods to 2018.
                                                                                         debt instruments              378               382              3            –
                                                                                         fund shares                   195               211            16             –
      the company has ongoing regular tax audits concerning open
                                                                                                                       580               601            21            (1)
      income tax years in a number of jurisdictions. adequate provi-
      sions for all open tax years have been foreseen. among others,
      the german tax audit rejected the deductible treatment of ex-
      penses in connection with the buy-back of the convertible
      bond issued 2003. accordingly, line item capital reserve was                                                                                     september 30, 2012
      reduced by €553 million and a tax expense of €53 million was                                                                               unrealized    unrealized
                                                                                         (in millions of €)             cost        fair value        gain           loss
      recognized in fiscal 2013. the company filed an appeal and will
      rigorously defend the position taken in tax returns. in addition,                  equity instruments                 6               8             2            –

      the company has applied for several mutual agreement proce-                        debt instruments              304               308              5            –
                                                                                         fund shares                   196               208            13            (1)
      dures to avoid double taxation.
                                                                                                                       506               524            19            (1)

      the company recorded deferred tax liabilities for income taxes
      and foreign withholding taxes on future dividend distributions
      from subsidiaries which are actually intended to be repatriat-
      ed. apart from this liability, the company has not recognized                 non-current available-for-sale financial assets, which are in-
      deferred tax liabilities for income taxes or foreign withholding              cluded in line item other financial assets are measured at fair
      taxes on the cumulative earnings of subsidiaries of €19,214                   value, if reliably measurable. they primarily consist of equity
      million and €21,270 million, respectively in fiscal 2013 and 2012             instruments, mainly comprising shares in atos and, since july
      because the earnings are intended to be permanently reinvest-                 2013, in osram. as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 non-cur-
      ed in the subsidiaries.                                                       rent available-for-sale financial assets measured at cost amount
                                                                                    to €167 million and €293 million, respectively; available-­for-
      including the items charged or credited directly to equity and                sale financial assets measured at fair value amount to €1,394
      the expense (benefit) from continuing and discontinued oper-                  million and €728 million, respectively. unrealized gains (losses)
      ations, the income tax expense (benefit) consists of the fol-                 in fiscal 2013 and 2012 resulting from non-current available-
      lowing:                                                                       for-sale financial assets at fair value were €401 million and
                                                                                    €215 million, respectively.




      92   a.    to our shareholders               117   b.      corporate ­governance                           155   c.       combined ­management report
282

note 11      trade and other receivables
                                                                                                                                                            year ended september 30,
                                                                                                    (in millions of €)                                             2013           2012

                                                                             september 30,          valuation allowance as of beginning
                                                                                                    of fiscal year                                                 134            142
 (in millions of €)                                                   2013            2012
                                                                                                    increase in valuation allowances
 trade receivables from the sale
                                                                                                    recorded in the consolidated statements
 of goods and services                                           12,932            13,310
                                                                                                    of income in the current period                                 35              23
 receivables from finance leases                                  1,921             1,910
                                                                                                    write-offs charged against the allowance                        (47)           (40)
                                                                 14,853            15,220
                                                                                                    recoveries of amounts previously written-off                     5               6
                                                                                                    foreign exchange translation differences                         (4)             5
                                                                                                    reclassifications to and from line item
changes to the valuation allowance of current and long-term                                         assets held for disposal and dispositions
                                                                                                    of those entities                                                –              (2)
receivables presented in     note 11, 12 and 19 , which belong to
                                                                                                    valuation allowance as of fiscal year-end                      124            134
the class of financial assets measured at (amortized) cost are
as follows (excluding receivables from finance leases):

                                                                                                  minimum future lease payments to be received are as follows:
                                                               year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                   2013            2012
 valuation allowance as                                                                                                                                                   september 30,
 of beginning of fiscal year                                      1,056             1,005
                                                                                                    (in millions of €)                                             2013           2012
 increase in valuation allowances
                                                                                                    within one year                                               2,318         2,273
 recorded in the consolidated statements
 of income in the current period                                      205              191          after one year but not more than five years                   3,406         3,240
 write-offs charged against the allowance                             (208)           (108)         more than five years                                           214            206
 recoveries of amounts previously written-off                            9                7                                                                       5,938         5,719
 foreign exchange translation differences                              (38)             14
 reclassifications to line item assets held for
 disposal and dispositions of those entities                             –             (54)
 valuation allowance as of fiscal year-end                        1,023             1,056         the following table shows a reconciliation of minimum future
                                                                                                  lease payments to the gross and net investment in leases and
                                                                                                  to the present value of the minimum future lease payments
                                                                                                  receivable:
in fiscal 2013 and 2012, receivables from finance leases, cur-
rent amount to €1,921 million and €1,910 million, respective-
ly; the long-term portion amounts to €3,340 million and                                                                                                                   september 30,
€3,148 million, respectively. the valuation allowance on cur-                                       (in millions of €)                                             2013           2012
rent and long-term receivables from finance leases changed                                          minimum future lease payments                                 5,938         5,719
as follows:                                                                                         plus: unguaranteed residual values                              97            131
                                                                                                    gross investment in leases                                    6,034         5,850
                                                                                                    less: unearned finance income                                 (649)           (657)
                                                                                                    net investment in leases                                      5,385         5,193
                                                                                                    less: allowance for doubtful accounts                         (124)           (134)
                                                                                                    less: present value of unguaranteed
                                                                                                    residual value                                                  (85)          (117)
                                                                                                    present value of minimum
                                                                                                    future lease payments receivable                              5,176         4,942




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                          283
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      the gross investment in leases and the present value of mini-                   cost of sales rendered include inventories recognized as ex-
      mum future lease payments receivable are due as follows:                        pense amounting to €53,778 million and €53,947 million, re-
                                                                                      spectively, in fiscal 2013 and 2012. raw m
                                                                                                                               ­ aterials and supplies,
                                                                                      work in process as well as finished goods and products held for
                                                                  september 30,       resale are valued at the lower of acquisition / production cost
       (in millions of €)                                  2013            2012       and net realizable value. the r­ espective write-downs, as com-
       gross investment in leases                      6,034             5,850        pared to prior year, increased by €39 million and €57 million as
           within one year                             2,345             2,388        of september 30, 2013 and 2012.
           one to five years                           3,472             3,248
           thereafter                                      218             214        item costs and earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted
       present value of minimum future                                                contracts relates to construction contracts, with net asset bal-
       lease payments receivable                       5,176             4,942
                                                                                      ances where contract costs plus recognized profits less recog-
           within one year                             1,946             2,012
                                                                                      nized losses exceed progress billings. construction contracts,
           one to five years                           3,035             2,743
                                                                                      here and as follows, include service contracts accounted for
           thereafter                                      195             187
                                                                                      under the percentage of completion method. liabilities from
                                                                                      contracts for which progress billings exceed costs and recog-
                                                                                      nized profits less recognized losses are recognized in line item
                                                                                      other current liabilities.
      investments in finance leases primarily relate to industrial ma-
      chinery, medical equipment, transportation systems, equip-                      the aggregate amount of costs incurred and recognized profits
      ment for information technology and office machines. actual                     less recognized losses for construction contracts in progress,
      cash flows will vary from contractual maturities due to future                  as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 amounted to €83,187 mil-
      sales of finance receivables, prepayments and write-offs.                       lion and €83,533 million, respectively. revenue from construc-
                                                                                      tion contracts amounted to €31,178 million and €32,530 mil-
                                                                                      lion, respectively, for fiscal 2013 and 2012.
      note 12       other current financial assets
                                                                                      advance payments received on construction contracts in prog-
                                                                                      ress were €8,630 million and €9,295 million as of september 30,
                                                                  september 30,       2013 and 2012. retentions in connection with construction con-
       (in millions of €)                                  2013            2012       tracts were €452 million and €343 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012.
       derivative financial instruments                    435             530
       loans receivable                                1,646             1,197        in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, siemens revised project cal-
       other                                           1,169             1,174        culations for long-term contracts with customers in iran in ac-
                                                       3,250             2,901        cordance with accounting guidance for construction and service
                                                                                      contracts. the resulting adjustments reduced income from con-
                                                                                      tinuing operations before income tax expenses by €347 million.



      note 13       inventories                                                       note 14          other current assets

                                                                  september 30,                                                                            september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                  2013            2012            (in millions of €)                                       2013           2012
       raw materials and supplies                      2,476             2,629             miscellaneous tax receivables                            735            668
       work in process                                 3,502             3,496             prepaid expenses                                         227            262
       costs and earnings in excess of                                                     other                                                    335            346
       billings on uncompleted contracts               8,604             8,005                                                                    1,297          1,277
       finished goods and products held for resale     2,311             2,643
       advances to suppliers                               707             953
                                                      17,601           17,726
       advance payments received                      (2,040)           (2,047)
                                                      15,560           15,679




      92     a.   to our shareholders                117   b.      corporate ­governance                          155   c.   combined ­management report
284

note 15      goodwill

                                                                                                                                                                   year ended september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                              2013                 2012
 cost
 balance at beginning of year                                                                                                                               18,517                 17,252
 translation differences and other                                                                                                                              (697)                 599
 acquisitions and purchase accounting adjustments                                                                                                             1,719                   913
 dispositions and reclassifications to assets classified as held for disposal                                                                                     25                 (246)
 balance at year-end                                                                                                                                        19,564                 18,517


 accumulated impairment losses and other changes
 balance at beginning of year                                                                                                                                 1,448                 1,546
 translation differences and other                                                                                                                               (66)                   59
 impairment losses recognized during the period                                                                                                                   70                    85
 dispositions and reclassifications to assets classified as held for disposal                                                                                    229                 (242)
 balance at year-end                                                                                                                                          1,681                 1,448


 carrying amount
 balance at beginning of year                                                                                                                               17,069                 15,706
 balance at year-end                                                                                                                                        17,883                 17,069




                                                     carrying               translation            acquisitions             dispositions,               impairments              carrying
                                                 amount as of               differences           and purchase           reclassifications                                    amount as of
                                                   10/01/2012                and other              accounting     incl. reclassifications                                      9/30/2013
                                                                                                   adjustments        to assets classified
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                  as held for disposal
 sectors
  energy                                               2,718                       (61)                       5                      (34)                        (23)               2,606
  healthcare                                           8,314                      (362)                      (3)                           –                        –               7,950
  industry                                             4,173                      (146)                    418                     (169)                            –               4,276
  infrastructure & cities                              1,742                       (65)                  1,299                             –                     (47)               2,930
 total sectors                                        16,949                      (633)                  1,719                     (204)                         (70)              17,761
  financial services (sfs)                                121                         2                       –                            –                        –                 122
 siemens                                              17,069                      (632)                  1,719                     (204)                         (70)              17,883




                                                     carrying               translation            acquisitions             dispositions,               impairments              carrying
                                                 amount as of               differences           and purchase           reclassifications                                    amount as of
                                                   10/01/2011                and other              accounting     incl. reclassifications                                      9/30/2012
                                                                                                   adjustments        to assets classified
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                  as held for disposal
 sectors
  energy                                               2,269                        82                     422                        31                         (85)               2,718
  healthcare                                           7,964                       287                      63                             –                        –               8,314
  industry                                             3,802                       121                     278                       (28)                           –               4,173
  infrastructure & cities                              1,558                        40                     150                         (6)                          –               1,742
 total sectors                                        15,594                       530                     913                         (3)                       (85)              16,949
  financial services (sfs)                                112                       10                        –                        (1)                          –                 121
 siemens                                              15,706                       539                     913                         (4)                       (85)              17,069




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                 357    e.       additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                              285
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      siemens performs the mandatory annual impairment test in                                                   the fair value less costs to sell is mainly driven by the terminal
      the three months ended september 30. except as disclosed                                                   value which is particularly sensitive to changes in the assump-
      above, the recoverable amounts for the annual impairment                                                   tions on the terminal value growth rate and discount rate.
      test 2013 for divisions or equivalents were estimated to be                                                both assumptions are determined individually for each divi-
      higher than the carrying amounts. key assumptions on which                                                 sion or equivalent. discount rates reflect the current market
      management has based its determinations of the fair value                                                  assessment of the risks specific to each division or equivalent
      less costs to sell for the divisions’ or equivalents’ carrying                                             and are based on the weighted average cost of capital for the
      amount include terminal value growth rates up to 2.3% in fis-                                              divisions or equivalents (for sfs the discount rate represents
      cal 2013 and 2.7% in fiscal 2012, respectively and after-tax dis-                                          cost of equity). terminal value growth rates take into consider-
      count rates of 6.0% to 10.8% in fiscal 2013 and 7.0% to 9.5% in                                            ation external macroeconomic sources of data and industry
      fiscal 2012. where possible, reference to market prices is made.                                           specific trends.

      for the purpose of estimating the fair value less costs to sell of                                         the following table presents the key assumptions used to de-
      the divisions or equivalents, cash flows were projected for the                                            termine fair value less costs to sell for impairment test purpos-
      next five years based on past experience, actual operating re-                                             es for the divisions to which a significant amount of goodwill
      sults and management’s best estimate about future develop-                                                 is allocated:
      ments as well as market assumptions.



                                                                                                             year ended september 30, 2013                                     year ended september 30, 2012
                                                                                                          terminal value               after-tax                          terminal value             after-tax
       (in millions of €, rates in %)                                                     goodwill           growth rate           discount rate              goodwill       growth rate         discount rate

       diagnostics of the healthcare sector                                                  4,758                   2.3%                  6.0%                 4,981               2.3%                7.0%
       industry automation of the industry sector                                            2,986                   1.7%                  8.5%                 2,897               1.8%                8.5%
       imaging & therapy systems of the healthcare sector                                    2,483                   2.2%                  7.5%                 2,596               2.7%                7.0%




      in the context of the ongoing disposal process, an impairment                                              in fiscal 2012 the entire remaining goodwill of the solar busi-
      test was performed for the logistics and airport solutions busi-                                           ness amounting to €85 million was impaired upon classifica-
      ness within the mobility & logistics division of the infrastruc-                                           tion as held for disposal and discontinued operations based on
      ture & cities sector as of september 30, 2013. as a result, an                                             the measurement at its fair value less costs to sell. due to the
      impairment loss of €46 million was recognized.                                                             reclassification of the solar business to continuing operations
                                                                                                                 in fiscal 2013, the amount of €85 million is now disclosed as
                                                                                                                 impairment in continuing operations for fiscal 2012.



      note 16      other intangible assets

                                                          gross       translation           additions         additions      retirements 1             gross    accumulated          carrying    amortization
                                                       carrying       differences            through                                                carrying    amortization          amount              and
                                                       amount                                business                                                amount             and              as of    impairment
                                                           as of                            combina­-                                                   as of    impairment         9/30/2013        in fiscal
       (in millions of €)                            10/01/2012                                 tions                                              9/30/2013                                            2013 2

       software and other
       internally generated
       intangible assets                                 3,270                (78)                   2              265              (114)           3,346           (2,104)           1,241            (268)
       patents, licenses and
       similar rights                                    7,154              (253)              1,363                  65             (259)           8,070           (4,254)           3,816            (659)
       other intangible assets                         10,424               (332)              1,365                330              (372)          11,415           (6,358)           5,057            (927)


             1 includes other intangible assets reclassified to assets           2 includes impairment expenses of €53 million in fiscal
                classified as held for disposal and dispositions of those            2013, thereof €25 million at infrastructure & cities, €19
                entities.                                                            million at energy, €8 million at industry and €2 million
                                                                                     at healthcare.




      92   a.    to our shareholders                                        117    b.     corporate ­governance                                    155   c.     combined ­management report
286

                                                    gross       translation            additions          additions     retirements 1                gross     accumulated           carrying     amortization
                                                 carrying       differences             through                                                   carrying     amortization           amount               and
                                                 amount                                 business                                                   amount              and               as of     impairment
                                                    as of                              combina­-                                                      as of     impairment          9/30/2012         in fiscal
 (in millions of €)                            10/01/2011                                  tions                                                 9/30/2012                                               2012 2

 software and other
 internally generated
 intangible assets                                 2,955                  68                   36               334              (122)             3,270             (2,001)             1,269           (291)
 patents, licenses and
 similar rights                                    6,665                 198                463                  94              (266)             7,154             (3,828)             3,326           (576)
 other intangible assets                           9,620                 266                499                 427              (387)            10,424             (5,829)             4,595           (867)


       1 includes other intangible assets reclassified to assets            2 includes impairment expenses of €44 million in fiscal
          classified as held for disposal and dispositions of those             2012, therein €43 million at healthcare.
          entities.



amortization and impairment on intangible assets is con-                                                    as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, contractual commitments
tained in line items cost of sales, research and development                                                for purchases of other intangible assets amount to €14 million
expenses or, selling and general administrative expenses, de-                                               and €15 million.
pending on the use of the asset.



note 17      property, plant and equipment

                                                  gross      translation         additions          additions       reclassi-          retire-             gross       accumu-        carrying        deprecia-
                                               carrying      differences          through                           fications          ments1           carrying       lated de-       amount          tion and
                                               amount                             business                                                               amount       preciation          as of          impair-
                                                   as of                         combina-                                                                   as of    and impair-     9/30/2013          ment in
 (in millions of €)                          10/01/2012                              tions                                                             9/30/2013           ment                    fiscal 2013 2
 land and buildings                              8,285                (189)              68             187              150             (824)           7,677          (3,651)           4,027          (292)
 technical machinery
 and equipment                                   7,076                (177)              30             269              284             (463)           7,020          (4,594)           2,426          (517)
 furniture and
 office equipment                                5,664                (149)              27             681              131             (614)           5,740          (4,352)           1,387          (715)
 equipment leased to
 others                                          3,372                (117)                –            377                (7)           (689)           2,936          (1,662)           1,274          (362)
 advances to suppliers and
 construction in progress                           859                (26)                5            465             (559)             (33)                7103            (9)          701                 (6)
 property,
 plant and equipment                           25,255                 (658)            129            1,979                 –         (2,623)           24,083        (14,268)            9,815        (1,892)


       1 includes property, plant and equipment reclassified                2 includes impairment expenses of €141 million in fiscal             3 includes €594 million expenditures for property, plant
          to/from assets classified as held for disposal and dis­               2013, thereof €55 million at sre, €34 million at industry,            and equipment under construction.
          positions of those entities.                                          €31 million at energy, €10 million at infrastructure & cities,
                                                                                €8 million at sfs and €2 million at healthcare.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                                   357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     287
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                          258    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income           260    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position             348    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                      gross     translation           additions    additions         reclassi-       retire-             gross      accumu-          carrying        deprecia-
                                                   carrying     differences            through                       fications       ments1           carrying      lated de-         amount          tion and
                                                   amount                              business                                                        amount      preciation            as of          impair-
                                                      as of                           combina-                                                            as of   and impair-       9/30/2012          ment in
       (in millions of €)                        10/01/2011                               tions                                                      9/30/2012          ment                      fiscal 2012 2
       land and buildings                            8,110                154               53           280             175           (487)           8,285          (3,946)          4,339            (339)
       technical machinery
       and equipment                                 6,589                125               35           306             305           (284)           7,076          (4,474)          2,602            (460)
       furniture and
       office equipment                              5,207                 91               53           639             206           (532)           5,664          (4,291)          1,373            (648)
       equipment leased to
       others                                        3,301                108                –           375                 2         (414)           3,372          (1,770)          1,602            (408)
       advances to suppliers and
       construction in progress                         937                28                1           596            (689)              (15)            8593           (11)           848              (10)
       property,
       plant and equipment                         24,144                 506             143         2,195                  –       (1,732)          25,255        (14,492)         10,763          (1,865)


             1 includes property, plant and equipment reclassified to          2 includes impairment expense of €140 million in fiscal          3 includes €741 million expenditures for property, plant
                assets classified as held for disposal and dispositions            2012, of which €56 million relate to sre, €38 million             and equipment under construction.
                of those entities.                                                 relate to energy and €32 million relate to sfs.




      depreciation and impairment is included in line items cost of                                          as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, minimum future lease pay-
      sales, research and development expenses or selling and gen-                                           ments receivable from lessees under operating leases are as
      eral administrative expenses, depending on the use of the as-                                          follows:
      set. as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, contractual commit-
      ments for purchases of property, plant and equipment amount
      to €503 million and €395 million, respectively.                                                                                                                                          september 30,
                                                                                                                (in millions of €)                                                      2013             2012
      in fiscal 2013 and 2012, government grants awarded for the                                                within one year                                                         321              384
      purchase or the production of property, plant and equipment                                               after one year but not more than five years                             578              754
      amounted to €9 million and €13 million, respectively. the                                                 more than five years                                                    137              196
      award of further government grants of €62 million and €77                                                                                                                       1,035            1,334
      million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to costs in-
      curred and future costs.

                                                                                                             payments from lessees under operating leases primarily relate
                                                                                                             to buildings, medical equipment and transportation systems.
                                                                                                             total contingent rent recognized in income in fiscal 2013 and
                                                                                                             2012 amounts to €214 million and €205 million.

                                                                                                             investment property
                                                                                                             the carrying amount of investment property amounts to
                                                                                                             €116 million and €121 million compared to a fair value of €258
                                                                                                             million and €232 million as of september 30, 2013 and 2012,
                                                                                                             respectively.




      92   a.    to our shareholders                                      117    b.     corporate ­governance                                  155    c.     combined ­management report
288

note 18investments accounted                                                                            summarized financial information for principal investments in
for using the equity method                                                                             associates, not adjusted for the percentage of ownership held
                                                                                                        by siemens, is presented below. income statement informa-
as of september 30, 2013, siemens’ principal investments                                                tion is presented for the twelve month period applied under
­accounted for under the equity method, which are all unlisted,                                         the equity method of accounting.
 are (in alphabetical order):

                                                                                                                                                                    year ended september 30,
                                                                     percentage of ownership              (in millions of €)                                                2013           2012
                                                                                   september 30,          revenue                                                         16,002        20,178
                                                                            2013                2012      net income (loss)                                                  92          (1,272)
 bsh bosch und siemens hausgeräte gmbh
 (bsh)                                                                      50%                 50%
 bwi informationstechnik gmbh 1                                             50%                 50%
 enterprise networks holdings b.v.                                          49%                 49%
                                                                                                        information related to the statements of financial position is
 maschinenfabrik reinhausen gmbh                                            26%                 26%
                                                                                                        presented as of the date used in applying the equity method of
 nokia siemens networks holding b.v.               2
                                                                               –                50%
                                                                                                        accounting.
 p.t. jawa power 3                                                          50%                 50%
 shanghai electric power
 generation equipment co. ltd.                                              40%                 40%
 voith hydro holding gmbh & co. kg                                          35%                 35%                                                                                september 30,
                                                                                                          (in millions of €)                                                2013           2012

       1 the exact percentage equals 50.05%; it is not controlled by siemens due to                      total assets                                                     6,825        17,702
          ­significant participating rights of the two other shareholders.                                total liabilities                                                4,676        12,949
       2 the investment was disposed of in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. until the
          disposal, the exact percentage of voting rights was equal to 50% less 2,500
          ­voting rights. due to its classification as held for disposal as of june 30, 2013,
           the summarized revenue and net income (loss) include nsn for nine months
          in fiscal 2013.
       3 the investment is no jointly controlled entity.                                               the unrecognized share of losses in associates amounted to
                                                                                                        €10 million and €22 million as of september 30, 2013 and 2012.
siemens’ interest in bsh, which is the principal jointly
­controlled entity of siemens, is recognized using the equity
 method, applying bsh’s twelve month periods ended june 30.                                             note 19       other financial assets
 the following information reflect bsh’s most recent published
 financial statements, not adjusted for the percentage of own-
 ership held by siemens.                                                                                                                                                           september 30,
                                                                                                          (in millions of €)                                                2013           2012
                                                                                                          loans receivable                                                 6,805         6,085
                                                                     year ended december 31,              receivables from finance leases,
 (in millions of €)                                                         2012                2011
                                                                                                          see   note 11 trade and other receivables                        3,340         3,148
                                                                                                          derivative financial instruments                                 1,894         2,798
 revenue                                                                 9,800             9,654
                                                                                                          available-for-sale financial assets                              1,560         1,021
 net income                                                                 465                 374
                                                                                                          other                                                            1,518         1,614
                                                                                                                                                                          15,117        14,666




                                                                                   december 31,         item loans receivable primarily relate to long-term loan trans-
 (in millions of €)                                                         2012                2011    actions of sfs.
 current assets                                                          4,650             4,576
 non-current assets                                                      3,215             2,859
 current liabilities                                                     2,876             3,109
 non-current liabilities                                                 2,410             1,917




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                     357   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                   289
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                         258   d.5     consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income          260   d.6     notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position            348   d.7     supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      note 20       other current financial liabilities                                 note 22           debt

                                                                    september 30,                                                                              september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                    2013            2012            (in millions of €)                                         2013           2012
       derivative financial instruments,                                                     short-term
       see    notes 30 and 31                                350             462              notes and bonds                                         1,431          2,018
       accrued interest expenses                             221             237              loans from banks                                          412          1,505
       other                                                 944             761              other financial indebtedness                               82            270
                                                         1,515             1,460              obligations under finance leases                           20              33
                                                                                               short-term debt and
                                                                                                current maturities of long-term debt                  1,944          3,826

                                                                                             long-term
      note 21      other current liabilities                                                  notes and bonds (maturing until 2066)                 17,060          16,194
                                                                                              loans from banks (maturing until 2023)                  1,233            449
                                                                                              other financial indebtedness
                                                                                               (maturing until 2027)                                    106            110
                                                                    september 30,
                                                                                              obligations under finance leases                          110            128
       (in millions of €)                                    2013            2012
                                                                                               long-term debt                                       18,509          16,880
       billings in excess of costs and estimated                                                                                                    20,453          20,707
       ­earnings on uncompleted contracts and
        ­related advances                               10,559           11,877
       payroll obligations and social security taxes     1,561             1,627
       other employee related costs                      2,103             1,988
       deferred income                                   1,035             1,123        interest rates in this note are per annum. in fiscal 2013 and
       accruals for outstanding invoices                 1,067               904        2012, weighted-average interest rates for loans from banks,
       bonus obligations                                 1,683             1,264        other financial indebtedness and obligations under finance
       miscellaneous tax liabilities                         669             650        leases were 2.7% (2012: 2.3%), 3.1% (2012: 2.1%) and 4.1% (2012:
       deferred reservation fees received                    101               21       4.6%), respectively.
       other                                                 923             848
                                                        19,701           20,302         a) commercial paper program
                                                                                        siemens has a us$9.0 billion (€6.7 billion as of september 30,
                                                                                        2013) multi-currency commercial paper program in place in-
                                                                                        cluding us$ extendible notes capabilities. as of september 30,
      item other employee related costs primarily includes vacation                     2013 and 2012 no commercial papers were outstanding.
      payments, accrued overtime and service anniversary awards,                        siemens’ commercial papers have a maturity of generally less
      severance payments, as well as liabilities related to termina-                    than 90 days. interest rates ranged from 0.01% to 0.37% in
      tion benefits.                                                                    ­fiscal 2013 and from (0.03)% to 0.70% in fiscal 2012.




      92   a.    to our shareholders                   117   b.      corporate ­governance                           155   c.    combined ­management report
290

b) notes and bonds



                                                                                                                              september 30, 2013                                   september 30, 2012
                                                                                                                      currency           carrying                         currency           carrying
                                                                                                             notional amount          amount in                  notional amount           amount in
 interest/issued/maturity                                                                                         (in millions)     millions of € 1                   (in millions)     millions of € 1

 5.625%/2006/march 2016/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                        us$             500                 412             us$                500             450
 5.375%/2008/june 2014/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                             €         1,000               1,031                 €         1,000              1,071
 5.625%/2008/june 2018/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                             €         1,600               1,844                 €         1,600              1,912
 4.125%/2009/february 2013/eur fixed-rate instruments 2                                                       –               –                    –              €         2,000              2,018
 5.125%/2009/february 2017/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                         €         2,000               2,136                 €         2,000              2,168
 us$ 3m libor+1.4%/2012/february 2019/us$ floating-rate instruments                                       us$             400                 296             us$                400             309
 0.375%/2012/september 2014/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                        €           400                 400                 €              400             400
 1.5%/2012/march 2020/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                              €         1,000                 994                 €         1,000                994
 2.75%/2012/september 2025/gbp fixed-rate instruments                                                         £           350                 416                 £              350             436
 3.75%/2012/september 2042/gbp fixed-rate instruments                                                         £           650                 760                 £              650             791
 1.75%/2013/march 2021/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                             €         1,250               1,242                 –                –                 –
 2.875%/2013/march 2028/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                            €         1,000                 995                 –                –                 –
 1.5%/2013/march 2018/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                          us$             500                 368                 –               –                  –
 3.5%/2013/march 2028/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                          us$             100                     72              –               –                  –
 2013/june 2020/us$ floating-rate instruments                                                             us$             400                 295                 –               –                  –
  total debt issuance program                                                                                                            11,262                                              10,549

 5.75%/2006/october 2016/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                       us$           1,750               1,389             us$           1,750              1,483
 6.125%/2006/august 2026/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                       us$           1,750               1,759             us$           1,750              1,908
  total us$ medium notes                                                                                                                    3,147                                              3,391

 5.25%/2006/september 2066/eur fixed-rate instruments                                                         €           900                 976                 €              900           1,004
 6.125%/2006/september 2066/gbp fixed-rate instruments                                                        £           750                 986                 £              750           1,075
  total hybrid capital bond                                                                                                                 1,962                                              2,079

 1.05% 2012/august 2017/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                        us$           1,500               1,068             us$           1,500              1,104
 1.65% 2012/august 2019/us$ fixed-rate instruments                                                        us$           1,500               1,052             us$           1,500              1,089
  total bond with warrant units                                                                                                             2,120                                              2,193
                                                                                                                                         18,491                                              18,212


       1 includes adjustments for fair value hedge accounting.         2    redeemed at face value at maturity in fiscal 2013.




debt issuance program                                                                                 september 30, 2013), 1.5% instruments due march 12, 2018.
the company has a program for the issuance of debt instru-                                            furthermore, siemens issued two privately placed instru-
ments under which it may issue instruments up to €15.0 bil-                                           ments of us$100 million (€74 million as of september 30,
lion as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. as of sep-                                      2013) in 3.5% fixed-rate instruments due march 20, 2028 and
tember 30, 2013 and 2012 €10.9 billion and €9.9 billion in no-                                        us$400 million (€296 million as of september 30, 2013) in
tional amounts were issued and are outstanding.                                                       floating-rate instruments due june 5, 2020.

siemens redeemed at face value €2.0 billion in 4.125% fixed-                                          in fiscal 2012, siemens issued €1.4 billion and £1.0 billion (€1.2
rate instruments in february 2013. in fiscal 2013, siemens is-                                        billion as of september 30, 2013) in fixed-rate instruments in
sued €2.25 billion and us$500 million in fixed-rate instru-                                           four tranches as well as us$400 million (€296 million as of
ments in three tranches, comprising: €1.25 billion, 1.75% in-                                         september 30, 2013) privately placed in floating-rate instru-
struments due march 12, 2021, €1.0 billion, 2.875% instruments                                        ments.
due march 10, 2028 and us$500 million (€370 million as of




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                        357    e.        additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                          291
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                     258       d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income      260       d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position        348       d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      hybrid bond                                                                 additionally, in fiscal 2013, the company signed two bilateral
      in september 2006, the company issued a subordinated hybrid                 us$500 million term loan facilities (in aggregate €740 million
      bond in a eur tranche of €900 million and a gbp tranche of                  as of september 30, 2013). the facilities have a term of five
      £750 million (€897 million as of september 30, 2013), both                  years expiring march 28, 2018 with two one-year extension op-
      with a legal final maturity on september 14, 2066 and with a                tions, were fully drawn in fiscal 2013 and bear interest of 0.79%
      call option for siemens in 2016 or thereafter. the instruments              above three months libor.
      bear fixed-rate interests until september 14, 2016; thereafter,
      floating-rate interest is applied according to the conditions of            d) credit facilities
      the bond.                                                                   the credit facilities at september 30, 2013 and 2012 consisted
                                                                                  of €6.7 billion and €7.5 billion, respectively, in committed lines
      bond with warrant units                                                     of credit. as of september 30, 2013, those include: (1) a €4.0
      in fiscal 2012, siemens issued us$ fixed-rate bonds with war-               billion undrawn syndicated multi-currency revolving credit fa-
      rant units in an aggregate principal amount of us$3 billion in              cility, entered into in fiscal 2012; in fiscal 2013, its maturity has
      two tranches, comprising: (1) us$1.5 billion (€1.1 billion as of            been extended by one year to april 4, 2018 with a remaining
      september 30, 2013) in 1.05% instruments maturing on august                 one-year extension option; (2) a us$3.0 billion (€2.2 billion as
      16, 2017 and (2) us$1.5 billion (€1.1 billion as of september 30,           of september 30, 2013) undrawn syndicated multi-currency re-
      2013) in 1.65% instruments maturing on august 16, 2019. each                volving credit facility provided by a syndicate of international
      of the us$1.5 billion instruments were issued with 6,000 de-                banks with a five year tenor and two one-year extension op-
      tachable warrants. the warrants’ exercise price was fixed in                tions, which was signed in september 2013. it replaces the pre-
      euro. the warrants were classified as equity instruments with               vious us$4.0 billion syndicated multi-currency credit facility
      a fair value of €126 million at issuance presented in the capital           which expired august 21, 2013. the us$4.0 billion facility com-
      reserve in line item other changes in equity. the warrants                  prised a us$1.0 billion floating-rate term loan bearing interest
      entitle the holders, at their option, to receive 1,806.1496
      ­                                                                           of 0.15% above three months libor which was drawn in janu-
      siemens ag shares per warrant at an exercise price per share                ary 2007 and redeemed at face value at maturity as well as a
      of €104.0018 during the exercise period which matures on au-                us$3.0 billion revolving tranche undrawn; (3) a €450 million
      gust 1, 2017 and august 1, 2019 for instruments (1) and instru-             revolving credit facility provided by a domestic bank expiring
      ments (2), respectively. after the spin-off of osram in fiscal              september 30, 2014.
      2013, the warrants entitle the holders to obtain osram shares
      in addition to siemens shares. accordingly, the warrants no                 as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, €6.7 billion and €6.8 billion
      longer qualify as equity instruments since the approval of the              of these lines of credit remained unused. commitment fees for
      spin-off in january 2013 and the warrants’ fair value of €163               the years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012 amount to €6
      million was reclassified from line item capital reserve to                  million and €4 million, respectively. the facilities are for gener-
      non-current other financial liability. the warrants result in op-           al business purposes.
      tion rights relating to a total of 21.7 million siemens ag shares.
                                                                                  as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, the aggregate amounts of
      c) assignable and term loans                                                indebtedness maturing during the next five years and there­
      the company has assignable loans. the loans were issued in                  after are as follows (excluding finance leases which are dis-
      four tranches, totaled €333 million and €447 million in notional            closed separately):
      amount as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 (carrying amount
      €356 million and €486 million as of september 30, 2013 and 2012)
      and are for general corporate purposes. they consist of two                                                                                       september 30,
      fixed-rate tranches: €113.5 million 5.283% notes due and re-                     (in millions of €)                                        2013           2012

      deemed at face value in june 2013 and €333 million 5.435%                        within one year                                         1,924          3,793
      notes due on june 12, 2015. the floating-rate tranches of €370                   after one year but not more than five years           10,423           9,214
      million bearing interest of 0.55% above six months euribor due                   more than five years                                    7,976          7,539
      june 12, 2013 and €283.5 million bearing interest of 0.70% above                                                                       20,323          20,546
      six months euribor due june 12, 2015 were called in august
      2011 and were redeemed in december 2011 at their face value.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.   corporate ­governance                           155   c.   combined ­management report
292

other financial indebtedness                                                                   note 23       post-employment benefits
item other financial indebtedness includes €111 million and
€153 million as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively,                                  post-employment benefits provided by siemens are orga-
for the company ’s real estate assets that were sold or trans-                                 nized through defined benefit plans as well as defined con-
ferred and in which siemens has retained significant risks and                                 tribution plans which cover almost all of the company ’s
rewards of ownership, including circumstances in which                                         ­domestic employees and the majority of the company ’s for-
siemens participates directly or indirectly in the change in                                    eign employees. post-employment defined benefit plans in-
market value of the property. therefore, these transactions                                     clude pension benefits and other post-employment benefits,
have been accounted for as financing obligations. these real                                    which primarily consist of transition payments to german
estate properties are carried on the company ’s consolidated                                    employees after retirement as well as post-employment
statements of financial position and no sale and profit has                                     health care and life insurance benefits to employees in the
been recognized.                                                                                u.s. and canada.

obligations under finance leases                                                               defined benefit plans
                                                                                               siemens regularly reviews the design of its post-employment
                                                                                               defined benefit plans. in order to reduce the company ’s expo-
                                                                     september 30, 2013        sure to certain risks associated with defined benefit plans,
                                                                           present value       such as longevity, inflation, effects of compensation increases,
                                         minimum                            of minimum
                                       future lease     unamortized         future lease       the company implemented new defined benefit plans in some
                                          payment           interest           payment         of siemens’ major countries including germany, the u.s. and
 (in millions of €)                      obligation        expense            obligation
                                                                                               the u.k. during the last several years. the benefits of these
 due
                                                                                               new defined benefit plans are based predominantly on contri-
 within one year                                 32              12                  20
                                                                                               butions made by the company and are still affected by longev-
 after one year but not
 more than five years                            94                  9               86        ity, inflation adjustments and compensation increases, but on-
 more than five years                            78              53                  25        ly to a minor extent. the company ’s major defined benefit
 total                                        204                74                 130        plans are funded with assets in segregated entities. the de-
 less: current portion                                                              (20)       fined benefit plans cover 501,000 participants, including
                                                                                    110        215,000 active employees, 87,000 former employees with vest-
                                                                                               ed benefits and 199,000 retirees and surviving dependents. in-
                                                                                               dividual benefits are generally based on eligible compensation
                                                                                               levels and/or ranking within the company hierarchy and years
                                                                                               of service. the characteristics of the defined benefit plans and
                                                                     september 30, 2012
                                                                                               the risks associated with them vary depending on legal, fiscal
                                                                           present value
                                         minimum                            of minimum         and economic requirements in each country. for the major de-
                                       future lease     unamortized         future lease       fined benefit plans of siemens the characteristics and risks are
                                          payment           interest           payment
 (in millions of €)                      obligation        expense            obligation       as follows:
 due
 within one year                                 47              14                  33        germany:
 after one year but not                                                                        in germany, siemens ag provides pension benefits through
 more than five years                            62              11                  51
                                                                                               the cash-balance plan bsav (beitragsorientierte siemens
 more than five years                         132                55                  76
                                                                                               ­altersversorgung), frozen legacy plans and deferred compen­
 total                                        241                80                 161
                                                                                                sation plans. the majority of siemens’ active employees in
 less: current portion                                                              (33)
                                                                                                germany participate in the bsav introduced in fiscal 2004,
                                                                                    128
                                                                                                which is a funded defined benefit pension plan whose bene-
                                                                                                fits are predominantly based on contributions made by the
                                                                                                company and returns earned on such contributions, subject
                                                                                                to a minimum return guaranteed by the company. the bsav is
                                                                                                funded via a contractual trust arrangement (cta), the bsav




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                  293
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      trust. individual benefits under the frozen legacy plans are               u.k.:
      based on eligible compensation levels or ranking within the                siemens plc in the u.k. sponsors a frozen defined benefit plan
      company hierarchy and years of service. in connection with                 and a defined contribution plan for all new employees and for
      the implementation of the bsav, benefits provided under the                the active service of those members who have participated in
      frozen legacy plans funded via a cta, the siemens pension                  the frozen defined benefit plan. there are several smaller de-
      trust were modified to substantially eliminate the effects of              fined benefit plans which result from previous acquisitions,
      compensation increases by freezing the accretion of benefits               those plans are in the process of being merged or de-risked.
      under the majority of these plans. however, these frozen                   the goal is to have only one legacy plan for closed or frozen
      plans still expose the company to actuarial risks such as in-              defined benefits. for most of the defined benefit plan mem-
      vestment risk, interest rate risk and longevity risk. further-             bers an inflation increase of the accrued benefits until the start
      more, deferred compensation plans are offered which are also               of retirement is mandatory. furthermore, the plans expose the
      funded via a cta. in germany no legal or regulatory minimum                company to actuarial risks such as: investment risk, interest
      funding requirements apply. the trusts, which are legally                  rate risk, longevity risk and salary increase risk. the funding
      separate from the company, manage their plan assets as                     environment is determined by the pension regulator and the
      trustees, in accordance with the respective trust agreements               applicable social and labor laws. the defined benefit plans are
      with the company.                                                          governed by a benefit trust whose decision making body is a
                                                                                 board of trustees who have a fiduciary duty to act in the best
      u.s.:                                                                      interests of the beneficiaries according to the trust agreement
      siemens corporation in the u.s. sponsors one major defined                 and law. the required funding is determined by a funding val-
      benefit plan, the siemens pension plan, which is frozen to new             uation carried out every third year based on legal require-
      entrants and accretion of new benefits (with the exception of              ments, which measures the liabilities on a government bond
      one small group of union employees). employees of siemens                  basis rather than under a high quality corporate bond basis as
      u.s. companies hired prior to april 1st, 2006 participate in the           under ias 19r, thus the technical funding deficit is usually
      siemens pension plan. most of the defined benefit plan partici-            larger. the funding valuation assumptions are being negotiat-
      pants’ benefits are calculated using a cash balance formula; al-           ed between the company and the trustees. the latest funding
      though a small group of participants are eligible for a benefit            valuation in u.k. in calendar year 2011 resulted in a technical
      based on a final average pay formula. this frozen defined ben-             underfunding of gbp 939 (€1,123) million, based on the as-
      efit plan exposes the company to actuarial risks such as in-               sumptions at that date. as a result, in fiscal 2013, siemens en-
      vestment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary in-           tered into an agreement with the trustees to provide an annual
      crease risk.                                                               payment of gbp 31 (€37) million for the next 20 years, begin-
                                                                                 ning in fiscal 2014. in addition to these payments the company
      the defined benefit plan assets are held in a master trust.                is obliged to pay gbp 15 (€18) million until the next funding
      siemens corporation, as the sponsoring employer, has dele-                 valuation, when the funding requirements will be updated
      gated investment oversight of the plans’ assets to the invest-             based on new assumptions. this valuation will take place ap-
      ment committee. the investment committee members have a                    proximately end of calendar year 2015.
      fiduciary duty to act solely in the best interests of the benefi-
      ciaries according to the trust agreement and u.s. law. the                 switzerland:
      committee has established an investment policy statement                   according to the swiss law “berufliches vorsorgegesetz” (bvg)
      which articulates the goals and objectives of the plans’ invest-           each employer has to grant post-employment benefits for
      ment management, including diversifying the assets of the                  qualifying employees. siemens switzerland sponsors funded
      master trust with the intention of appropriately addressing                defined benefit plans for its qualifying employees. these plans
      concentration risks. the trustee of the master trust acts only             are administered by foundations that are legally separated
      by direction of the investment committee. it is responsible for            from the entity and are subject to the bvg. for the main pen-
      the safekeeping of the trust, but generally has no decision                sion fund, which represents 95% of the defined benefit obliga-
      making authority over the plan assets. the legal and regulato-             tion in switzerland, the board of the pension fund is composed
      ry framework for the plans is based on the applicable u.s. leg-            of an equal number of representatives from both employer and
      islation employee retirement income security act (erisa).                  employees. for the other pension funds the employer has the
      based on this legislation a funding valuation is prepared annu-            majority of the seats in the foundation board. the board of the
      ally. there is a regulatory requirement to maintain a minimum              pension funds is required by law and by the regulations of the
      funding level of 80% in the defined benefit plans in order to              funds to act in the interest of the fund and of all stakeholders
      avoid benefit restrictions.                                                in the schemes, i.e. active employees and retirees. the board




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.   corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
294

of the pension fund is responsible for the investment policy                                       necessary contributions are financed by the employees. in the
with regard to the assets of the fund, changes of the plan rules                                   case of a shortfall, the employer and plan participants’ contri-
and it determines the necessary contributions to finance the                                       bution might be increased according to decisions of the rele-
benefits. the plan is a cash balance plan and the company is                                       vant foundation board. strategies of the foundation boards to
required to make contributions at least as high as the pre-de-                                     make up for potential shortfalls are subject to approval by the
termined employee contributions set out in the plan rules. the                                     regulator.
plans expose the company to actuarial risks such as invest-
ment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and salary increase                                  the amounts included in the company ’s consolidated finan-
risk. employer and plan participants’ contributions are deter-                                     cial statements arising from its post-employment defined ben-
mined by the respective foundation boards. about 40% of the                                        efit plans are as follows:



                                                                defined benefit                              fair value            effects in connection                            net defined
                                                               obligation (dbo)                          of plan assets                with asset ceiling                        benefit balance
                                                                 september 30,                          september 30,                      september 30,                             september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                    2013                   2012              2013               2012            2013              2012                 2013               2012
 germany                                           20,367               20,339             14,017              13,956                –                  –           (6,350)                (6,383)
 u.s.                                                3,769               4,324              2,575               2,819                –                  –           (1,194)                (1,505)
 u.k.                                                4,455               4,006              4,022               3,758              (65)             (104)                (498)               (352)
 ch                                                  2,828               2,985              2,489               2,437              (49)              (47)                (388)               (594)
 other                                               1,753               1,996                  975             1,086              (32)              (19)                (810)               (930)
 total                                             33,173               33,650             24,078              24,057          (146)                (170)           (9,241)                (9,764)




the net defined benefit balance of €9,241 million and €9,764                                       a reconciliation of the funded status to the amounts recog-
million as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 comprises €9,265                                         nized in the consolidated statements of financial position is
million and €9,801 million net defined benefit liability and €24                                   as follows:
million and €38 million net defined benefit asset, respectively.

defined benefit costs are as follows:                                                                                                                                                september 30,
                                                                                                       (in millions of €)                                                  2013              2012
                                                                                                       defined benefit obligation
                                                                                                       of pension benefit plans                                          32,594           32,965
                                                               year ended september 30,
                                                                       2013            2012
                                                                                                       defined benefit obligation
 (in millions of €)
                                                                                                       of other post-employment benefit plans                              579               685
 current service cost                                                  510              437
                                                                                                       total defined benefit obligation                                  33,173           33,650
 past service (benefit) cost                                             (9)           (124)
                                                                                                       fair value of plan assets
 settlement (gains) losses                                               (7)            (38)           of pension benefit plans                                          24,073           24,052
 net interest expenses                                                 297              310            fair value of plan assets
 net interest income                                                     (3)              (8)          of other post-employment benefit plans                                    5              5
 liability administration expenses                                       16              26            total fair value of plan assets                                   24,078           24,057
 components of defined benefit                                                                         funded status of pension benefit plans                            (8,520)           (8,914)
 costs recognized in the consolidated                                                                  funded status
 statements of income                                                  803              604            of other post-employment benefit plans                              (575)             (680)
 return on plan assets (excluding                                                                      total funded status (excluding
 amounts included in net interest                                                                      effects in connection with asset ceiling)                         (9,095)           (9,593)
 expenses and net interest income)                                     (504)         (2,308)
 actuarial (gains) and losses                                           (50)         5,048
 effect from asset ceiling                                              (23)              (5)
 remeasurements of defined benefit
 plans recognized in the consolidated
 statements of comprehensive income                                    (577)         2,734
 defined benefit costs                                                 226           3,338




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                     357    e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                     295
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                    258    d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income     260    d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position       348    d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      the company ’s defined benefit plans are explicitly explained                       a detailed reconciliation of the changes in the fair value of plan
      in the subsequent sections with regard to:                                          assets for fiscal 2013 and 2012 is provided in the following table:

      >> reconciliation of defined benefit obligations
         and plan assets,                                                                                                                                                september 30,
      >> actuarial assumptions,                                                                (in millions of €)                                                 2013           2012

      >> sensitivity analysis,                                                                 change in plan assets:
      >> asset-liability matching strategies,                                                  fair value of plan assets at beginning of year                 24,057          20,969
      >> disaggregation of plan assets, and                                                     interest income                                                   750            952
      >> future cash flows.                                                                    remeasurements:
                                                                                                 return on plan assets excluding
                                                                                                  amounts included in net interest income
      reconciliation for defined benefit obligations                                              and net interest expenses                                       504          2,308
      and plan assets                                                                           employer contributions                                            536            586
      a detailed reconciliation for the changes in the dbo for fiscal                           plan participants’ contributions                                  105            118
      2013 and 2012 is provided in the following table:                                         benefits paid                                                  (1,480)         (1,470)
                                                                                                settlement payments                                               (67)              (19)
                                                                                                business combinations, disposals and other                         87            189
                                                                      september 30,             liability administration costs                                    (16)              (26)
       (in millions of €)                                      2013            2012             foreign currency translation effects                             (398)           448
       change in defined benefit obligations:                                                  fair value of plan assets at end of year                       24,078          24,057
       defined benefit obligation at beginning of year    33,650           27,849
           current service cost                                510             437
           past service (benefit) cost                           (9)          (124)
           settlement (gains) losses                             (7)            (38)      actuarial assumptions
           interest expenses                               1,036             1,247        assumed discount rates, compensation increase rates, pen-
           remeasurements:                                                                sion progression rates and mortality rates used in calculating
         actuarial (gains) losses from                                                   the dbo vary according to the economic and other conditions
          changes in demographic assumptions                     43            208
                                                                                          of the country in which the retirement plans are situated.
         actuarial (gains) losses from
          changes in financial assumptions                     (249)         4,680
          experience (gains) losses                            156             159        the weighted-average discount rate as well as the mortality
           plan participants’ contributions                    105             118        ­tables used for the actuarial valuation of the dbo at period-end
           benefits paid                                  (1,622)           (1,585)        were as follows:
           settlement payments                                  (67)            (17)
           business combinations, disposals and other          135             207
           foreign currency translation effects                (508)           508                                                                         year ended september 30,
       defined benefit obligation at end of year          33,173           33,650                                                                         2013                   2012
                                                                                               discount rate                                              3.4%                  3.2%
                                                                                                germany                                                   3.1%                  3.1%
                                                                                                u.s.                                                      3.7%                  2.9%
      the total defined benefit obligation at the end of fiscal 2013                            u.k.                                                      4.5%                  4.4%
      includes €10,767 million for active employees, €4,645 million                             ch                                                        2.1%                  1.7%
      for former employees with vested benefits and €17,761 million
                                                                                               mortality tables
      for retirees and surviving dependents.                                                   (most significant countries):
                                                                                                germany                                      heubeck richttafeln 2005g
                                                                                                u.s.                                         rp2000 combined healthy fully
                                                                                                                                             generational mortality table
                                                                                                u.k.                                         s1pxa (standard mortality tables for
                                                                                                                                             self administered pension schemes
                                                                                                                                             (saps) with allowance for future
                                                                                                                                             mortality improvements)
                                                                                                ch                                           bvg 2010 g




      92     a.   to our shareholders                    117    b.     corporate ­governance                                   155   c.   combined ­management report
296

the rates of compensation increase for countries with signifi-                                  of the future benefit. if more than one of the assumptions are
cant effects with regard to this assumption were as follows in                                  changed simultaneously, the combined impact due to the
fiscal 2013 and 2012: u.s.: 3.13% and 3.69%, u.k.: 4.80% and                                    changes would not necessarily be the same as the sum of the
4.10%, switzerland: 1.50% and 1.50%. the rates of pension pro-                                  individual effects due to the changes. furthermore, the sensi-
gression for countries with significant effects with regard to                                  tivities reflect a change in the dbo only for a change in the as-
this assumption were as follows in fiscal 2013 and 2012: ger-                                   sumptions in this specific magnitude, i.e. 0.5%. if the assump-
many: 1.69% and 1.67%, u.k.: 3.2% and 2.6%.                                                     tions change at a different level, the effect on the dbo is not
                                                                                                necessarily in a linear relation.
the dbo is also affected by assumed future inflation rates. the
effect of inflation is recognized within the assumptions above                                  asset liability matching strategies
where applicable.                                                                               siemens’ funding policy for its funded defined benefit plans
                                                                                                is part of the overall commitment to sound financial manage-
sensitivity analysis                                                                            ment, which also includes an ongoing analysis of the struc-
a one-half-percentage-point change of the established as-                                       ture of siemens’ defined benefit liabilities. to balance return
sumptions mentioned before, used for the calculation of the                                     and risk, siemens has developed a benefit risk management
dbo as of september 30, 2013, would result in the following                                     concept. the company has identified as a major risk a decline
increase (decrease) of the dbo:                                                                 in the plans’ funded status as a result of the adverse develop-
                                                                                                ment of plan assets and / or defined benefit obligations.
                                                                                                siemens monitors its investments and its defined benefit ob-
                                                                     effect on dbo as of        ligations in order to measure such risk. the risk quantifies
                                                                september 2013 due to a
                                                               one-half percentage-point
                                                                                                the expected maximum decline in the principle plans’ funded
 (in millions of €)                                              increase       decrease        status for a given confidence level over a given time horizon.
 discount rate                                                    (1,919)         2,159         a risk limit on the group level forms the basis for the determi-
 rate of compensation increase                                        136           (105)       nation of the company ’s investment strategy, i.e. the strate-
 rate of pension progression                                      1,492          (1,339)         gic asset class allocation of principle plan assets and the
                                                                                                ­degree of interest rate risk hedging. both the risk limit and
                                                                                                 investment strategy are regularly reviewed with the participa-
                                                                                                 tion of senior external experts of the international asset
the reduction of the mortality rates by 10% results in an in-                                    management and insurance industry to allow for an integral
crease of life expectancy depending on the individual age                                        view on plan assets and benefit liabilities. the company se-
of each beneficiary. that means for example, that the life                                       lects asset managers based on quantitative and qualitative
­expectancy of a male siemens employee age 55 years as of                                        analysis and subsequently constantly monitors their perfor-
 september 30, 2013 increases by approximately one year. in                                     mance and risk, both on a stand-alone basis, and in the
 ­order to determine the longevity sensitivity the mortality rates                              broader portfolio context. siemens reviews the asset alloca-
  were reduced by 10% for all beneficiaries. the effect on dbo as                                tion of each plan in light of the duration of the related benefit
  of september 30, 2013 due to a 10% reduction in mortality rates                                liabilities and analyzes trends and events that may affect as-
  would result in an increase of €985 million.                                                   set values in order to inform about appropriate measures at
                                                                                                 a very early stage.
when calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obliga-
tion to significant actuarial assumptions the same method                                       derivatives are used for risk reducing purposes to either re-
(present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated                                     duce the fluctuations in the value of plan assets or reduce
with the projected unit credit method) has been applied as                                      funded status volatility as part of an integrated risk manage-
when calculating the post-employment benefit obligation rec-                                     ment approach for assets and liabilities. main risks mitigated
ognized in the consolidated statement of financial position.                                     are interest rate, credit, equity, currency and inflation risk. all
increases and decreases in the discount rate, rate of compen-                                   over-the-counter derivatives are collateralized on a daily basis
sation increase, rate of pension progression and mortality                                      to eliminate counterparty risk. in addition, derivatives are
rates which are used in determining the dbo do not have a                                       ­permitted for investment managers to use as substitutes for
symmetrical effect on the dbo primarily due to the compound                                      traditional securities where appropriate to manage exposure to
interest effect created when determining the net present value                                   foreign exchange and interest rate risks.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                             357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       297
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      disaggregation of plan assets                                                expected benefit payments
      the asset allocation of the plan assets of the benefit plans is as
      follows:
                                                                                        (in millions of €)                                      september 30, 2013
                                                                                        expected benefit payments
                                                fair value as of september 30,          2014                                                               1,647
       (in millions of €)                        2013                    2012           2015                                                               1,613
       asset class                                                                      2016                                                               1,624
       equity securities                       6,604                   5,876            2017                                                               1,668
           u.s. equities                       1,416                   1,660            2018                                                               1,713
           european equities                   2,214                   1,636            2019 – 2023                                                        8,958
           emerging markets                    1,457                   1,394
           global equities                     1,517                   1,187
       fixed income securities                12,768                 13,759
           government bonds                    3,003                   3,336       the weighted average duration of the dbo for siemens de-
           corporate bonds                     9,765                 10,423        fined benefit plans was 13 years as of september 30, 2013.
       alternative investments                 2,961                   2,309
           hedge funds                           978                     295       multi-employer defined benefit plans
           private equity                        497                     466       multi-employer plans mainly exist in the netherlands and in
           real estate                         1,487                   1,548
                                                                                   the u.s. these plans are industry specific plans based on local
       derivatives                               175                   1,255
                                                                                   laws, which are accounted for as defined contribution plans as
           interest risk                         263                   1,562
                                                                                   siemens has no right to obtain the necessary data for defined
           foreign currency risk                   53                     29
                                                                                   benefit plan accounting. these plans may expose the compa-
           credit/inflation/price risks         (141)                   (335)
                                                                                   ny to investment and actuarial risk in case of a deficit.
       cash and cash equivalents               1,148                     434
       other assets                              422                     423
                                                                                   in the netherlands the company is not liable for other entities’
       total                                  24,078                 24,057
                                                                                   obligations under the terms and conditions of the multi-em-
                                                                                   ployer plan.

                                                                                   in the u.s. the company may be liable for other entities’ obli-
      virtually all equity and fixed income securities have quoted                 gations in case of failure of other participating employers to
      prices in active markets and almost all fixed income securities              make required contributions. in case of withdrawal from a
      are investment grade. in addition, the asset class other assets              plan the company may be subject to a liability for the potential
      includes assets with quoted prices in active markets in the                  future statutory underfunding for its share in the plan. the
      amount of €78 million and €169 million as of september 30,                   company has only a minor share in these plans compared to
      2013 and 2012.                                                               other participating entities and has no intention to withdraw
                                                                                   from one of these plans.
      as of september 30, 2013, the major part of cash and cash
      equivalents is marked as cash in transition into corporate bond              siemens is not aware of any probable significant risk due to
      mandates.                                                                    multi-employer defined benefit plans accounted for as defined
                                                                                   contribution plans.
      the plan assets include own transferable financial instruments
      of the company with a fair value of €89 million and €74 million              siemens expects contributions to multi-employer defined ben-
      as of september 30, 2013 and 2012.                                           efit plans accounted for as defined contribution plans for the
                                                                                   next fiscal year of €31 million.
      future cash flows
      employer contributions expected to be paid to the post-em-
      ployment defined benefit plans in fiscal 2014 are €631 million.




      92     a.    to our shareholders              117   b.    corporate ­governance                        155    c.   combined ­management report
298

defined contribution plans and state plans                                                     and 2012, respectively. contributions to state plans amount
the amount recognized as expense for defined contribution                                      to €1,354 million and €1,584 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012,
plans amounts to €594 million and €545 million in fiscal 2013                                  ­respectively.



note 24       provisions

                                                                                             warranties       order related                   asset              other         total
                                                                                                            losses and risks            retirement
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                     obligations
 balance as of october 1, 2012                                                                   3,405               2,038                  1,282               1,933        8,658
 additions                                                                                       1,544                    834                    –                769        3,147
 usage                                                                                            (828)               (603)                     (8)              (304)       (1,742)
 reversals                                                                                        (683)               (294)                   (27)               (426)       (1,430)
 translation differences                                                                            (66)                  (53)                  (4)                   (37)    (160)
 accretion expenses and effect of changes in discount rates                                           –                     2                (106)                      –     (104)
 other changes                                                                                      (21)                    4                    1                    40        23
 balance as of september 30, 2013                                                                3,350               1,929                  1,138               1,976        8,392
 thereof non-current                                                                             1,200                    686               1,113                 908        3,907




                                                                                             warranties       order related                   asset              other         total
                                                                                                            losses and risks            retirement
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                     obligations
 balance as of october 1, 2011                                                                   3,506               2,017                  1,130               2,169        8,822
 additions                                                                                       1,446               1,123                       1                562        3,132
 usage                                                                                            (738)               (701)                     (9)              (359)       (1,806)
 reversals                                                                                        (847)               (418)                    (21)              (455)       (1,741)
 translation differences                                                                             48                    14                    3                    14        79
 accretion expenses and effect of changes in discount rates                                           1                    13                 172                       8      195
 other changes                                                                                      (12)                  (10)                   5                     (6)      (22)
 balance as of september 30, 2012                                                                3,405               2,038                  1,282               1,933        8,658
 thereof non-current                                                                             1,146                    733               1,261                 768        3,908




in fiscal 2013 and 2012, item other changes contains reclassifi-                               in fiscal 2013, wind power division of the energy sector took
cations (to) from line item liabilities associated with assets                                 €94 million in charges related to inspecting and retrofitting in-
classified as held for disposal including the disposal of those                                stalled onshore turbine blades mainly in the u.s.
entities of €(47) million and €(25) million, respectively.
                                                                                               order related losses and risks – are provided for anticipated
except for asset retirement obligations, the majority of the                                   losses and risks on uncompleted construction, sales and leas-
company ’s provisions are generally expected to result in cash                                 ing contracts.
outflows during the next one to 15 years.
                                                                                               transportation & logistics of the infrastructure & cities sector
warranties – mainly relate to products sold.                                                   incurred project charges of €270 million and €86 million in fis-
                                                                                               cal 2013 and 2012, respectively, for delays for receiving certifi-
                                                                                               cation for new high-speed trains.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                   357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                       299
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the power transmission division of the              to the development of a final storage facility for radioactive
      energy sector incurred project charges primarily related to grid             waste are based on the assumptions for the so called schacht
      connections to offshore wind-farms. these charges were due                   konrad final storage. parameters related to the life-span of the
      to project delays resulting from a complex regulatory environ-               german nuclear reactors reflect a planned phase-out until
      ment and the projects’ complex marine environment, which                     2022. the valuation uses assumptions to reflect the current
      required revised estimates of resources and personnel. this                  and detailed cost estimates, price inflation and discount rates
      led to €(171) million and €(570) million pretax effects on the               as well as a continuous outflow until the 2070’s related to the
      income statement in fiscal 2013 and 2012, which were mainly                  costs for dismantling as well as intermediate and final storage.
      recorded as provisions for order related losses and risks.
                                                                                   using the input of an independent advisor, management up-
      asset retirement obligations – the company is subject to                     dated its valuation of the liability due to changes in estimates
      asset retirement obligations related to certain items of proper-             which resulted in minor adjustments in fiscal 2013 and 2012.
      ty, plant and equipment. such asset retirement obligations are               facts and circumstances of the changes were as follows:
      primarily attributable to environmental clean-up costs which
      amounted to €1,096 million and €1,224 million, respectively, as              in fiscal 2013, the parameters related to operating costs and
      of september 30, 2013 and 2012 (the non-current portion                      the timeframe of the storage process of the radioactive waste
      thereof being €1,086 million and €1,215 million, respectively)               in the konrad final storage were updated by the federal office
      and to costs primarily associated with the removal of lease-                 for radiation protection (bundesamt für strahlenschutz).
      hold improvements at the end of the lease term.
                                                                                   in fiscal 2012, the parameters related to the set up cost of the
      environmental clean-up costs relate to remediation and envi-                 konrad final storage were updated by the federal office for ra-
      ronmental protection liabilities which have been accrued                     diation protection.
      based on the estimated costs of decommissioning facilities for
      the production of uranium and mixed-oxide fuel elements                      the determination of the provisions related to major asset
      in hanau, germany (hanau facilities), as well as a nuclear                   retirement obligations will continue to involve significant
                                                                                   ­
      ­research and service center in karlstein, germany (karlstein                estimates and assumptions. uncertainties surrounding the
                                                                                   ­
       ­facilities). according to the german atomic energy act, when               amount to be recognized include, for example, the estimated
        such a facility is closed, the resulting radioactive waste must            costs of decommissioning and final storage because of the
        be collected and delivered to a government-developed final                 long time frame over which future cash outflows are expected
        storage facility. in this regard, the company has developed a              to occur. amongst others, the estimated cash outflows related
        plan to decommission the hanau and karlstein facilities in the             to the asset retirement obligation could alter significantly if,
        following steps: clean-out, decontamination and disassembly                and when, political developments affect the government’s
        of equipment and installations, decontamination of the facili-             plans to develop the so called schacht konrad. as of septem-
        ties and buildings, sorting of radioactive materials, and inter-           ber 30, 2013 and 2012, the provision totals €1,096 million and
        mediate and final storage of the radioactive waste. this pro-              €1,224 million, respectively, and is recorded net of a present
        cess will be supported by continuing engineering studies and               value discount of €1,259 million and €1,418 million, respec-
        radioactive sampling under the supervision of german federal               tively reflecting the assumed continuous outflow of the total
        and state authorities. the decontamination, disassembly and                expected payments until the 2070’s.
        final waste conditioning are planned to continue until 2018;
        thereafter, the company is responsible for intermediate stor-              the company recognizes the accretion of the provision for en-
        age of the radioactive materials until a final storage facility is         vironmental clean-up costs using the effective interest method
        available. with respect to the hanau facility, the process of set-         applying current interest rates prevailing at the period-end
        ting up intermediate storage for radioactive waste has nearly              date. in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the company recognized €22 mil-
        reached completion; on september 21, 2006, the company re-                 lion and €23 million, respectively, in accretion expense for en-
        ceived official notification from the authorities that the hanau           vironmental clean-up costs in line item other financial income
        facility has been released from the scope of application of the            (expenses), net. changes in discount rates decreased the car-
        german atomic energy act and that its further use is unre-                 rying amount of provisions by €128 million as of september 30,
        stricted. the ultimate costs of the remediation are contingent             2013 and increased it by €149 million as of september 30, 2012.
        on the decision of the federal government on the location of
        the final storage facilities and the date of their availability.           other – other includes transaction-related and post-closing
        consequently, the provision is based on a number of signifi-               provisions in connection with portfolio activities as well as
        cant estimates and assumptions. several parameters relating                provisions for legal and regulatory matters.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                  117   b.   corporate ­governance                   155   c.   combined ­management report
300

note 25       other liabilities

                                                                                                                                                                            september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                  2013            2012
 employee related liabilities                                                                                                                                        604             475
 liabilities due to employees and retirees in the u.s. not qualifying for presentation as post-employment benefits                                                   534             523
 deferred income                                                                                                                                                     275             221
 accruals for pending invoices                                                                                                                                        96             124
 accruals for stand-ready obligations                                                                                                                                 74              79
 severance payments                                                                                                                                                  133              71
 warranties for disposed of businesses                                                                                                                                 –              67
 german pension insurance association – pensionssicherungsverein (psv)                                                                                                39              56
 insurance liabilities                                                                                                                                                76             126
 other                                                                                                                                                               243             292
                                                                                                                                                                    2,074          2,034




note 26       equity
capital stock
siemens’ issued capital is composed of no par value shares                                     the following table provides a summary of outstanding autho-
with a notional value of €3.00 per share. each share of issued                                 rized and conditional capital and the changes for fiscal years
capital is entitled to one vote.                                                               2013 and 2012:



                                                                                                       issued capital                authorized capital                conditional capital
                                                                                             (authorized and issued)                      (not issued)                        (not issued)
                                                                                        in thousands     in thousand      in thousands     in thousand     in thousands       in thousand
                                                                                                 of €          shares              of €          shares             of €            shares

 as of september 30, 2011                                                               2,742,610          914,203          610,800          203,600       1,027,517            342,506
  expired or cancelled capital                                                            (99,610)         (33,203)                  –                –                 –               –
 as of september 30, 2012                                                               2,643,000          881,000          610,800          203,600       1,027,517            342,506
  expired, cancelled or newly approved capital                                                     –                –                –                –                 –               –
 as of september 30, 2013                                                               2,643,000          881,000          610,800          203,600       1,027,517            342,506




authorized capital (not issued)                                                                authorized capital 2009 by up to €520.8 million through the
the company ’s shareholders authorized the managing board,                                     issuance of up to 173.6 million shares for contributions in cash
with the approval of the supervisory board, to increase capital                                and / or in kind (authorized capital 2009). the authorization
stock through the issuance of no par value shares registered in                                was granted on january 27, 2009 and expires on january 26,
the names of the holders and to determine the further content                                  2014. with the approval of the supervisory board, the manag-
of the rights embodied in the shares and the terms and condi-                                  ing board can exclude shareholders’ pre-emptive rights for cap-
tions of the share issue as follows:                                                           ital increases in the form of contributions in kind and in cer-
                                                                                               tain pre-stipulated circumstances for contributions in cash.
authorized capital 2011 by up to €90 million through the issu-
ance of up to 30 million shares for contributions in cash. the                                 conditional capital (not issued)
authorization was granted on january 25, 2011 and expires on                                   conditional capital is provided for the purpose of a) serving
january 24, 2016. in accordance with authorized capital 2011,                                  the issuance of bonds with conversion rights and (or) with
new shares can be issued solely to employees of siemens ag                                     warrants, b) accommodating the exercise of stock option plans
and its subsidiaries. pre-emptive rights of existing sharehold-                                and c) settling claims of former siemens nixdorf informations-
ers are excluded.                                                                              systeme ag (sni ag) shareholders.



253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                             301
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      conditional capital 2011 to service the issuance of bonds with              period of at least two years, provided employment or board
      conversion rights and / or with warrants or a combination                   membership exists at the time of the award; (4) offered and
      thereof in an aggregate principal amount of up to €15 billion,              transferred with the approval of the supervisory board to third
      entitling the holders to subscribe to up to 90 million shares of            parties against contributions in kind, particularly in connec-
      siemens ag with no par value, representing up to €270 million               tion with business combinations or the acquisition of compa-
      of capital stock. the authorization to issue such bonds was                 nies, businesses, parts of businesses or interests therein; (5)
      granted in january 2011 and will expire on january 24, 2016.                with the approval of the supervisory board sold to third parties
                                                                                  against payment in cash if the price at which such siemens
      conditional capital 2010 to service the issuance of bonds with              shares are to be sold is not significantly lower than the market
      conversion rights and / or with warrants in an aggregate princi-            price of the siemens stock at the time of selling; or (6) used to
      pal amount of up to €15 billion, entitling the holders to sub-              service convertible bonds or warrant bonds issued by the com-
      scribe to up to 200 million shares of siemens ag with no par                pany or any of its subsidiaries. in addition, the supervisory
      value, representing up to €600 million of capital stock. the au-            board may use repurchased shares to meet obligations or rights
      thorization to issue such bonds was granted on january 26,                  to acquire siemens shares that were or will be agreed with
      2010 and will expire on january 25, 2015.                                   members of the managing board within the framework of rules
                                                                                  governing managing board compensation.
      conditional capital to service the 2001 and 1999 siemens stock
      option plans amounts to €157 million, representing 52.32 mil-               the current authorization to acquire siemens shares is supple-
      lion shares of siemens ag as of september 30, 2013 and 2012.                mented by an authorization to repurchase up to 5% of its
      the last tranche of stock options expired in november 2010                  ­capital stock existing at the date of the shareholders’ resolu-
      and from that date on, no further shares are to be issued.                   tion by using equity derivatives or forward purchases with
                                                                                   a maximum maturity term of 18 months; the repurchase of
      conditional capital provided to issue shares to settle claims of-            treasury shares upon the exercise of such instruments shall be
      fered to former sni ag shareholders who had not tendered                     no later than january 24, 2016.
      their sni ag share certificates amounts to €0.6 million, repre-
      senting 189 thousand shares as of september 30, 2013 and                    in august 2012, siemens announced a share buyback amount-
      2012. such rights to claim siemens shares expired in 2007 and               ing to up to €3 billion which ended in november 2012. the
      no further shares are to be issued.                                         shares repurchased may be used for the purposes of cancella-
                                                                                   tion and reduction of capital stock, issuance to employees,
      transactions with                                                            board members of affiliated companies and members of the
      non-controlling ­i nterests                                                 managing board as well as to meet obligations arising under
      in connection with an acquisition in fiscal 2012, a minority                and in connection with convertible bonds and warrant bonds.
      shareholder was granted a put option on the non-controlling                 in addition, in fiscal 2013, under the current authorization to
      interests. this transaction with non-controlling interests im-              acquire treasury shares given by resolution at the annual
      pacted line item retained earnings by €(301) million as of                  shareholders’ meeting, the company repurchased as many
      ­september 30, 2012.                                                        treasury shares as were necessary to keep the number of
                                                                                  ­treasury shares at a set level until the effective date of the
      treasury shares                                                              spin-off of osram in july 2013.
      the company is authorized by its shareholders to acquire trea-
      sury shares of up to 10% of its capital stock existing at the date          in fiscal 2012, the company repurchased 23,202,500 treasury
      of the shareholders’ resolution or – if this value is lower – as of         shares at a weighted average share price of €76.14. additional-
      the date on which the authorization is exercised. the authori-              ly, in fiscal 2012, the managing board decided to cancel
      zation became effective on march 1, 2011 and remains in force               33,203,421 treasury shares, which reduced issued capital from
      through january 24, 2016. according to the resolution, repur-               914 million shares to 881 million shares. in fiscal 2013, siemens
      chased shares may be (1) sold via a stock exchange or through               repurchased 17,150,820 treasury shares at weighted average
      a public sales offer made to all shareholders; (2) retired; (3)             costs per share of €78.66.
      offered for purchase to individuals currently or formerly
      ­
      ­employed by the company or any of its subsidiaries as well as              in fiscal 2013 and 2012, 3,878,899 shares and 5,225,479 shares,
       to board members of any of the company ’s subsidiaries or                  respectively, were transferred in connection with equity s­ettled
       awarded and (or) transferred to such individuals with a vesting            share-based payment plans.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.   corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
302

other comprehensive income,
net of income taxes
the changes in line item other comprehensive income, net of
income taxes including non-controlling interest holders are as
follows:



                                                                                                        year ended september 30, 2013                      year ended september 30, 2012
 (in millions of €)                                                                               pretax       tax effect            net             pretax       tax effect        net
 items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
 remeasurements of defined benefit plans                                                           543             (149)            394            (3,017)             1,231    (1,787)
 items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
  unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets                         182                (3)           179               305                (10)      295
  reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in net income                              4                   1              4             (86)               –         (86)
 net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale financial assets                              185                (2)           183               219                (10)      209
  unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments                                    142              (48)             94                (64)              29         (35)
  reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) included in net income                            (70)             21              (50)             144                (46)        98
 net unrealized gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments                                   72             (27)             45                 79               (17)        63
 foreign-currency translation differences                                                       (1,062)                   –    (1,062)                855                 –        855
                                                                                                  (805)             (29)            (834)           1,153                (27)    1,127
 other comprehensive income                                                                       (262)            (178)            (440)          (1,865)             1,204      (661)




other changes in equity                                                                        the managing board and the supervisory board proposed
line item other changes in equity of the consolidated state-                                   a dividend of €3.00 per share of the fiscal 2013 siemens ag
ment of changes in equity includes €126 million in fiscal 2012                                 earnings, in total representing approximately €2.5 billion in
which relate to the equity instruments of the us$ bonds with                                   ­expected payments. payment of the proposed dividend is con-
warrants issued in fiscal 2012. after completion of the spin-off                               tingent upon approval by the shareholders at the annual
of osram in fiscal 2013, those warrants entitle the holders to                                 shareholders’ meeting on january 28, 2014.
obtain osram shares in addition to siemens shares. as a con-
sequence, the warrants no longer qualify as equity instru-
ments. the warrants’ fair value of €163 million was reclassified                               note 27       additional capital disclosures
from line item capital reserve to non-current other financial li-
abilities as of the date of the approval at the annual sharehold-                              siemens believes that sustainable revenue and profit devel-
ers’ meeting.                                                                                  opment can be achieved only on the basis of a healthy capital
                                                                                               structure. a key consideration of our capital structure man-
miscellaneous                                                                                  agement is maintaining ready access to the capital markets
under the german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz), the                                     through various debt products and preservation of our ability
amount of dividends available for distribution to shareholders                                 to repay and service our debt obligations over time. siemens
is based upon the earnings of siemens ag as reported in its                                    set a capital structure target range of 0.5 – 1.0. the ratio is
statutory financial statements determined in accordance with                                   defined as the item adjusted industrial net debt divided by
the german commercial code (handelsgesetzbuch). in fiscal                                      the item adjusted ebitda (continuing operations). this
2013, siemens ag management distributed an ordinary divi-                                      financial performance measure indicates the approximate
                                                                                               ­
dend of €2,528 million (€3.00 per share) of the fiscal 2012 earn-                              amount of time in years that would be needed to pay off
ings to its shareholders. in fiscal 2012, siemens ag manage-                                   ­
                                                                                               adjusted industrial net debt through continuing income,
ment distributed to its shareholders an ordinary dividend of                                   without taking into account interest, taxes, depreciation and
€2,629 million (€3.00 per share) of the fiscal 2011 earnings.                                  amortization.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                357   e.       additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                           303
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      siemens calculates the item adjusted industrial net debt as set                                      for purposes of measuring capital efficiency at sfs, equity
      forth in the table below:                                                                            capital is allocated to sfs. allocated equity capital differs from
                                                                                                           book capital as it is mainly determined and influenced by the
                                                                                                           size and quality of its portfolio of commercial finance as well
                                                                                       september 30,       as project and structured finance assets (primarily loans and
       (in millions of €)                                                        2013           2012       leases) and equity investments. this allocation is designed to
       short-term debt and current                                                                         cover the risks of the underlying business. the actual risk of
       maturities of long-term debt 1                                           1,944         3,826
                                                                                                           the sfs portfolio is evaluated and controlled on a regular basis.
       plus: long-term debt 1                                                18,509         16,880
       less: 	cash and cash equivalents                                     (9,190)        (10,891)
                                                                                                           given the favorable capital market conditions at the end of
       less: 	current available-for-sale financial assets                      (601)          (524)
                                                                                                           ­fiscal 2012, siemens announced in august 2012 that it would
       net debt                                                              10,663           9,292
                                                                                                            adjust its capital structure through share buybacks amounting
       less: 	sfs debt 2                                                   (15,600)        (14,558)
                                                                                                            to up to €3 billion by december 30, 2012. in fiscal 2012, the
       plus: 	post-employment benefits 3                                       9,265         9,801
                                                                                                            company repurchased 23,202,500 treasury shares at a weight-
       plus: credit guarantees                                                   622            326
                                                                                                            ed average share price of €76.14. at the beginning of fiscal
       less:	50% nominal amount hybrid bond 4                                  (899)          (920)
                                                                                                            2013 siemens repurchased further 14,746,786 treasury shares
       less: 	fair value hedge accounting
               adjustment 5                                                  (1,247)         (1,670)        at a weighted average price of €78.14 and completed this share
       adjusted industrial net debt                                             2,805         2,271         buyback program in november 2012. in addition, in fiscal 2013,
       adjusted ebitda                                                                                      siemens repurchased as many treasury shares as necessary to
       (continuing operations)                                                  8,215         9,613         keep the number of treasury shares at a set level until the ef-
       adjusted industrial net debt/adjusted ebitda                                                         fective date of the spin-off of osram and fulfilled commit-
       (continuing operations)                                                   0.34           0.24
                                                                                                            ments for share-based compensation through treasury shares.

                1 the item short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as well as the
                   item long-term debt included in total fair value hedge accounting adjustments           in fiscal 2014, siemens may again fulfill commitments for
                   of €1,247 million and €1,670 million for the fiscal year ended september 30, 2013
                                                                                                           share-based compensation through treasury shares.
                   and 2012, respectively.
             2 the adjustment considers that both moody ’s and s&p view sfs as a captive fi-
                nance company. these rating agencies generally recognize and accept higher                 a key factor in maintaining a strong financial profile is our
                levels of debt attributable to captive finance subsidiaries in determining credit
                ratings. following this concept, siemens excludes sfs debt in order to derive an           credit rating which is affected by, among other factors,
                adjusted industrial net debt which is not affected by sfs’s financing activities.
                                                                                                           siemens’ capital structure, profitability, ability to generate cash
             3 to reflect siemens’ total post-employment benefit liability, adjusted industrial net
                debt includes line item post-employment benefits as presented in the consolidated          flow, geographic and product diversification as well as siemens’
                statements of financial position.
                                                                                                           competitive market position. siemens’ current corporate credit
             4 the adjustment for our hybrid bond considers the calculation of this financial
                ratio applied by rating agencies to classify 50% of our hybrid bond as equity and          ratings from moody ’s investors service (moody ’s) and stan-
                50% as debt. this assignment reflects the characteristics of our hybrid bond such
                as a long maturity date and subordination to all senior and debt obligations.
                                                                                                           dard & poor’s ratings services (s&p) are noted as follows:
             5 debt is generally reported with a value representing approximately the amount to
                be repaid. however for debt designated in a hedging relationship (fair value hedges),
                this amount is adjusted by changes in market value mainly due to changes in
                interest rates. accordingly siemens deducts these changes in market value in order                                    september 30, 2013             september 30, 2012
                to derive an amount of debt that approximately will be repaid. siemens believes
                                                                                                                                    moody ’s         s&p           moody ’s         s&p
                this is a more meaningful figure for the calculation presented above.
                                                                                                                long-term debt          aa3               a+           aa3          a+
      sfs’ capital structure differs from the capital structure of                                              short-term debt          p -1           a -1+          p -1       a -1+
      siemens’ industrial business, as sfs’ business is capital inten-
      sive and requires a larger amount of debt to finance its opera-
      tions, in particular to finance sfs’s asset growth strategy. the
      following table provides information on the capital structure                                        on may 14, 2013, moody ’s changed its outlook for siemens’
      of sfs as of september 30, 2013 and 2012:                                                            credit rating from stable to negative, stating that despite
                                                                                                           the group’s substantial cost reduction initiatives, we expect
                                                                                                           its profitability, cash flow generation and capital structure to be
                                                                                       september 30,       weaker than anticipated in 2013 and 2014. a rating outlook is an
       (in millions of €)                                                       2013            2012       opinion regarding the likely direction of an issuer’s long-term
       allocated equity                                                      1,938            1,790        credit rating over the medium-term. rating out­looks of moody ’s
       sfs debt                                                            15,600           14,558         fall into the following six categories: positive, negative, stable,
       debt to equity ratio                                                     8.05            8.13       developing, ratings under review and no o  ­ utlook.




      92   a.      to our shareholders                                    117    b.     corporate ­governance                     155   c.      combined ­management report
304

at the same time, moody ’s affirmed our aa3 long-term and our                                    the nominal amount of the credit line. these guarantees have
p-1 short-term credit rating. the classification aa is the second                                terms up to twelve years and five years, respectively, in fiscal
highest category within moody ’s long-term credit rating scale.                                  2013 and 2012. except for statutory recourse provisions against
the numerical modifier 3 indicates a ranking in the lower end                                    the primary debtor, credit guarantees are generally not subject
of that category. the classification p-1 is the highest available                                to additional contractual recourse provisions. as of september
rating in the prime rating system of moody ’s, which assesses                                    30, 2013, item credit guarantees include €299 million relating
issuers’ ability to honor senior financial obligations and con-                                  to a reclassification of a disposal group from discontinued to
tracts. it applies to senior unsecured obligations with an origi-                                continuing operations. the company accrued €38 million and
nal maturity of less than one year.                                                              €28 million, relating to credit guarantees as of september 30,
                                                                                                 2013 and 2012, respectively.
s&p made no rating changes in fiscal 2013. s&p’s long-term
credit rating for siemens is a+ and the rating outlook is stable.                                furthermore, siemens issues guarantees of third-party per-
within s&p’s long-term credit rating scale, a is the third high-                                 formance, which include performance bonds and guaran-
est long-term rating category. the modifier + indicates that                                     tees of advanced payments in cases where siemens is the
our long-term debt ranks in the upper end of the a category.                                     general or subsidiary partner in a consortium. in the event of
rating outlooks of s&p fall into the following four categories:                                  non-fulfillment of contractual obligations by the consortium
positive, negative, stable and developing. s&p’s short-term                                      partner(s), siemens will be required to pay up to an agreed-­
rating is a-1+, which is the highest rating within s&p’s short-                                  upon maximum amount. these agreements span the term of
term rating scale.                                                                               the contract, typically ranging from three months to ten
                                                                                                 years in fiscal 2013 and seven years in fiscal 2012. generally,
                                                                                                 consortium agreements provide for fallback guarantees as a
note 28       commitments and contingencies                                                      recourse provision among the consortium partners. as of
                                                                                                 september 30, 2013 and 2012, the company accrued €66 mil-
guarantees and other commitments                                                                 lion and €83 million, respectively, relating to performance
the following table presents the undiscounted amount of                                          guarantees.
maximum potential future payments for each major group of
guarantee:                                                                                       in fiscal 2007, the federal republic of germany commissioned
                                                                                                 a consortium consisting of siemens and ibm deutschland
                                                                                                 ­gmbh (ibm) to modernize and operate the non-military in­
                                                                            september 30,         formation and communications technology of the german
 (in millions of €)                                                  2013            2012         federal armed forces (bundeswehr). this project is called
 guarantees                                                                                       ­
                                                                                                  herkules. a project company, bwi informationstechnik
  credit guarantees                                                  622              326         ­gmbh (bwi), provides the services required by the terms of
  guarantees of third-party performance                          1,593             1,562           the contract. siemens is a shareholder in the project company.
  herkules obligations                                           1,890             2,290           the total contract value amounts to a maximum of approxi-
  other                                                          1,864             3,632           mately €6 billion. in connection with this project, siemens
                                                                 5,970             7,810           ­issued several guarantees connected to each other legally and
                                                                                                    economically in favor of the federal republic of germany and
                                                                                                    of the consortium member ibm in december 2006. the guar-
                                                                                                    antees ensure that bwi has sufficient resources to provide the
item credit guarantees cover the financial obligations of third                                     required services and to fulfill its contractual obligations.
parties in cases where siemens is the vendor and (or) contrac-                                      these guarantees are listed as a separate item herkules
tual partner. these guarantees generally provide that in the                                        obligations in the table above due to their compound and
                                                                                                    ­
event of default or non-payment by the primary debtor,                                              ­multilayer nature. total future payments potentially required
siemens will be required to settle such financial obligations. in                                    by siemens amount to €1.89 billion and €2.29 billion as of
addition, siemens provides credit guarantees generally as                                            ­september 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively and will be reduced
guarantees for credit-lines with variable utilization to joint                                        by approximately €400 million per year over the remaining
ventures and associated and other companies accounted for                                             four-year contract period as of september 30, 2013. yearly
using the equity method. the maximum amount of these                                                  ­payments under these guarantees are limited to €400 million
guarantees is subject to the outstanding balance of the credit                                         plus, if applicable, a maximum of €90 million in unused guar-
or, in case where a credit line is subject to variable utilization,                                    antees carried forward from the prior year.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       305
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5     consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6     notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7     supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      item other includes indemnifications issued in connection                       note 29   legal proceedings
      with dispositions of business entities. such indemnifications,
      if customary to the relevant transactions, may protect the buy-                 public corruption proceedings
      er from potential tax, legal and other risks in conjunction with                governmental and related proceedings
      the purchased business entity. indemnifications include those                   as previously reported, in may 2011 siemens ag voluntarily re-
      for en, disposed of in fiscal 2008, and siemens it solutions                    ported a case of attempted public corruption in connection
      and services disposed of in fiscal 2011. as of september 30,                    with a project in kuwait in calendar 2010 to the u.s. depart-
      2013 and 2012, the total amount accrued for guarantees in item                  ment of justice, the sec, and the munich public prosecutor.
      other is €242 million and €528 million, respectively. item oth-                 the munich public prosecutor discontinued the investigations,
      er guarantees decreased in fiscal 2013, mainly due to the expi-                 which related to certain former employees, but imposed condi-
      ration of indemnifications issued in connection with disposi-                   tions on them. siemens is cooperating with the u.s. authori-
      tions of business entities.                                                     ties in their ongoing investigations.

      as of september 30, 2012, in addition to guarantees disclosed                   as previously reported, in july 2011 the nuremberg-fuerth
      above, siemens had credit guarantees of €309 million, guaran-                   public prosecutor notified siemens ag of an investigation
      tees of third-party performance of €4 million and other guar-                   against several employees in connection with payments relat-
      antees of €82 million (as of september 30, 2013, €3 million) re-                ed to the healthcare business in the caribbean. in november
      lating to discontinued operations. contingencies relating to                    2012, the nuremberg-fuerth public prosecutor discontinued
      businesses held for disposal not classified as discontinued op-                 its investigation.
      erations are included in the above tabular.
                                                                                      as previously reported, in july 2011 the munich public prosecu-
      as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, future payment obligations                   tor notified siemens ag of an investigation against a former
      under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:                          employee in connection with payments to a supplier related to
                                                                                      the oil and gas business in central asia from calendar 2000 to
                                                                                      2009. siemens is cooperating with the public prosecutor.
                                                                  september 30,
       (in millions of €)                                  2013            2012       as previously reported, in october 2011, the turkish prime
       within one year                                     807             812        ­ministry inspection board notified siemens sanayi ve ticaret
       after one year but not more than five years     1,556             1,586         a.s., turkey, of an investigation in connection with alleged
       more than five years                                757             770         bribery in turkey and iraq from calendar 1999 to 2007. siemens
                                                       3,120             3,168         is cooperating with the authority.

                                                                                      in february 2013, siemens ag and the european investment
                                                                                      bank (eib) signed a settlement agreement addressing alleged
      total operating rental expense for the years ended september                    past violations of the eib’s anti-fraud policy. the settlement in-
      30, 2013 and 2012 were €1,073 million and €1,072 million, re-                   cludes a commitment by siemens that the concerned business
      spectively. total sublease income amounts to €62 million and                    unit will voluntarily refrain from bidding on projects financed
      €74 million, respectively in fiscal 2013 and 2012. total future                 by the eib for a period of 18 months. further, siemens com-
      minimum sublease payments expected to be received under                         mits to provide funds, totaling €13.5 million over five years, to
      non-cancellable subleases as of september 30, 2013 and 2012                     organizations or institutions that promote good governance
      amount to €139 million and €162 million, respectively.                          and the fight against corruption.

      as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, the company has commit-                      since july 2013, following the voluntary self-reporting of cer-
      ments to make capital contributions to the equity of various                    tain facts by siemens ltda. brazil to the brazilian antitrust au-
      companies of €223 million and €211 million, respectively.                       thorities in may 2013 mentioned below, several brazilian pros-
                                                                                      ecutorial offices have initiated or resumed investigations into
      the company is jointly and severally liable and has capital con-                alleged criminal conduct, including alleged bribe payments,
      tribution obligations as a partner in commercial partnerships                   anticompetitive conduct and undue influencing of public ten-
      and as a participant in various consortiums.                                    ders, in connection with several metro transport projects.
                                                                                      among the resumed investigations are in particular two cases




      92   a.    to our shareholders                 117   b.      corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
306

that had been reported before, namely the investigations by                                      as previously reported, in february 2010 a greek parliamentary
the brasilia and sao paulo public prosecutors related to alleged                                 investigation committee (gpic) was established to investigate
misconduct in calendar 2007 and around 2000, respectively.                                       whether any politicians or other state officials in greece were
siemens is cooperating with the authorities.                                                     involved in alleged wrong-doing of siemens in greece. the
                                                                                                 gpic’s investigation was focused on possible criminal liability
in august 2013, a brazilian appellate court upheld a decision to                                 of politicians and other state officials. greek public prosecutors
suspend siemens ltda. brazil from participating in public bids                                   are separately investigating certain fraud and bribery allega-
and signing contracts with public administrations in brazil for                                  tions involving – among others – former board members and
a five year term, based on alleged irregularities in calendar                                    former executives of siemens a.e., elektrotechnische projekte
1999 and 2004 public tenders. siemens is seeking remedial ac-                                  und erzeugnisse, greece (siemens a.e.), and siemens ag. in
tion against the decision of the appellate court.                                              january 2011, the gpic alleged in a letter to siemens a.e. that
                                                                                               the damage suffered by the greek state amounted to at least
as previously reported, siemens ag had filed a request for arbi-                               €2 billion. furthermore, the gpic issued a report repeating
tration against the republic of argentina (argentina) with the                                 these allegations. in addition, the hellenic republic minister of
international center for settlement of investment disputes (ic-                                state indicated in a letter to siemens that the greek state will
sid) of the world bank. siemens ag claimed that argentina                                      seek compensation from siemens for the alleged damage. in
had unlawfully terminated its contract with siemens for the                                    april 2012, the greek parliament approved a settlement agree-
development and operation of a system for the production of                                    ment between siemens and the greek state, the material pro-
identity cards, border control, collection of data and voters’                                 visions of which include the following: siemens waives public
registers (dni project) and thereby violated the bilateral invest-                             sector receivables in the amount of €80 million. furthermore
ment protection treaty between argentina and germany (bit).                                    siemens agrees to spend a maximum of €90 million on various
a unanimous decision on the merits was rendered by the icsid                                   anti-corruption and transparency initiatives, as well as univer-
    arbitration tribunal in february 2007, awarding siemens ag,                                sity and research programs and to provide €100 million of
inter alia, compensation in the amount of us$217.8 million,                                    ­financial support to siemens a.e. to ensure its continued pres-
plus compound interest thereon at a rate of 2.66% since may                                      ence in greece. in exchange, the greek state agrees to waive
18, 2001. argentina subsequently filed applications with the                                     all civil claims and all administrative fines related to the
­icsid aiming at the annulment and reversal of the decision                                     ­corruption allegations and to utilize best efforts to resolve all
 and a stay of enforcement of the arbitral award. in august                                      pending disputes between siemens and the greek state-com-
 2009, argentina and siemens ag reached an agreement to mu-                                      panies or its public authorities.
    tually settle the case and discontinue any and all civil proceed-
    ings in connection with the case without acknowledging any                                 in february 2012, the munich public prosecutor notified
    legal obligations or claims. no payment was made by either                                 siemens ag of a request for mutual assistance in criminal mat-
 party. as previously reported, the argentinean anti-corruption                                ters by the swiss federal prosecution authority. the investiga-
 authority is conducting an investigation against individuals                                  tion of the swiss federal prosecution involved the swedish
 into corruption of government officials in connection with
 ­                                                                                             subsidiary siemens industrial turbomachinery (sit) in con-
 the award of the contract for the dni project to siemens in                                   nection with alleged payments to employees of a russian nat-
 ­calendar 1998. searches were undertaken at the premises of                                   ural gas production company between calendar 2004 and
    siemens argentina and siemens it services s.a. in buenos                                   2006. in july 2013, the swiss federal prosecution launched a
  ­aires in august 2008 and in february 2009. the company is                                   criminal investigation against sit for organizational neglect. in
   cooperating with the argentinean authorities. the argentinean                               september 2013, the investigation was discontinued due to a
   investigative judge also repeatedly requested judicial assis-                               settlement with the swiss federal prosecution that included a
   tance from the munich public prosecutor and the federal court                               restitution payment to a nonprofit organization and a compen-
   in new york. in december 2011, the u.s. securities and                                      sation claim relating to forfeiture of profits in the lower double
   ­exchange commission (sec) and u.s. department of justice                                   digit us$ million range.
    filed an indictment against nine individuals based on the same
    facts as the investigation of the argentinean anti-corruption                              as previously reported, the vienna public prosecutor, austria,
    authority. most of these individuals are former siemens                                    is conducting an investigation into payments between calen-
    ­
    employees. the former member of the managing board of                                      dar 1999 and 2006 relating to siemens aktiengesellschaft
    siemens ag, dr. uriel sharef, is also involved. siemens ag is                              ­
                                                                                               österreich, austria, and its subsidiary siemens vai metal
    not party to the proceedings.                                                              ­technologies gmbh & co., austria, for which valid consider-




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                      307
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      ation could not be identified. in september 2011, the vienna               the company itself or against certain of its employees in con-
      public prosecutor extended the investigations to include a                 nection with possible violations of law. in addition, the scope
      potential corporate liability of siemens ag austria for tax
      ­                                                                          of pending investigations may be expanded and new investi-
      ­evasion. siemens is cooperating with the authorities.                     gations commenced in connection with allegations of bribery
                                                                                 or other illegal acts. the company ’s operating activities, finan-
      as previously reported, in december 2009, the anti-corruption              cial results and reputation may also be negatively affected,
      commission of bangladesh (acc) sent a request for informa-                 particularly as a result of penalties, fines, disgorgements, com-
      tion to siemens bangladesh related to telecommunications                   pensatory damages, third-party litigation, including with com-
      projects of siemens’ former communications (com) group                     petitors, the formal or informal exclusion from public invita-
      ­undertaken prior to calendar 2007. in january 2010, siemens               tions to tender, or the loss of business licenses or permits. ad-
       bangladesh was informed that in a related move the anti money             ditional expenses and provisions, which could be material,
       laundering department of the central bank of bangladesh is                may need to be recorded in the future for penalties, fines, dam-
       conducting a special investigation into certain accounts of               ages or other charges in connection with the investigations.
       siemens bangladesh and of former employees of siemens
       ­bangladesh in connection with transactions for com projects              civil litigation
        undertaken in the period from calendar 2002 to 2006. in feb-             as previously reported, siemens ag reached a settlement with
        ruary 2010 and june 2012, the acc sent requests for additional           nine out of eleven former members of the managing and
        information. siemens is cooperating with the authorities.                ­supervisory board in december 2009. the settlement relates to
                                                                                  claims of breaches of organizational and supervisory duties in
      as previously reported, in november 2009 and in february                    view of the accusations of illegal business practices that
      2010, a subsidiary of siemens ag voluntarily self-reported                  ­occurred in the course of international business transactions
      possible violations of south african anti-corruption regula-
      ­                                                                            in calendar 2003 to 2006 and the resulting financial burdens
      tions in the period before calendar 2007 to the responsible                  for the company. the annual shareholders’ meeting approved
      south african authorities. the authorities have requested further            all nine settlements between the company and the former
      documentation. siemens is cooperating with the authorities.                  members of the managing and supervisory board in january
                                                                                   2010. the shareholders also approved a settlement agreement
      as previously reported, in june 2010, the frankfurt public pros-             between the company and its directors and officers insurers
      ecutor searched premises of siemens in germany in response                   regarding claims in connection with the d&o insurance of up
      to allegations of questionable payments relating to an infra-                to €100 million. siemens recorded €96 million gains, net of
      structure & cities project in thailand. siemens is cooperating               costs, from the d&o insurance and the nine settlements. in
      with the authority.                                                          january 2010, siemens ag filed a lawsuit with the munich dis-
                                                                                   trict court i against the two former board members who were
       as previously reported, in august 2010, the inter-american                  not willing to settle, dr. thomas ganswindt and heinz-joachim
      d
      ­ evelopment bank (iadb) issued a notice of administrative                   neubürger. the criminal proceedings pending with the
      proceedings against, among others, siemens it solutions and                  ­munich district court i against dr. ganswindt were terminated
      services argentina alleging fraudulent misstatements and                      in july 2011. against this backdrop, siemens ag reached a
      ­antitrust violations in connection with a public invitation to               settlement with dr. thomas ganswindt in november 2012,
                                                                                    ­
       tender for a project in the province of cordoba, argentina, in               which was subject to the approval of the annual shareholders’
       calendar 2003. siemens is cooperating with the iadb.                         meeting. the annual shareholders’ meeting of siemens ag
                                                                                    ­
                                                                                    approved the settlement agreement with dr. ganswindt in
      as previously reported, in august 2010, the iadb issued a                     january 2013. therefore siemens withdrew from the proceed-
      ­notice of administrative proceedings against, among others,                  ings pending before the munich district court i in march 2013,
       siemens venezuela alleging fraudulent misstatements and                      as provided for in the settlement. the lawsuit against
       public corruption in connection with a public invitation to                  heinz-joachim neubürger is still pending. in january 2013, mr.
       ­tender for healthcare projects in the venezuelan provinces of               neubürger filed a counter claim against siemens ag, requesting
        ­anzoategui and merida in calendar 2003. siemens is cooperat-               the transfer of stock awards in fiscal 2004 and 2005 plus divi-
         ing with the iadb.                                                         dends and interest. siemens ag is contesting this counterclaim.

      the company remains subject to corruption-related investiga-               as previously reported, in june 2008, the republic of iraq filed
      tions in several jurisdictions around the world. as a result, ad-          an action requesting unspecified damages against 93 named
      ditional criminal or civil sanctions could be brought against              defendants with the united states district court for the south-




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.   corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
308

ern district of new york on the basis of findings made in the                                  in addition to these proceedings, authorities in brazil, the
“report of the independent inquiry committee into the united                                   czech republic and slovakia are conducting investigations
nations oil-for-food programme.” siemens s.a.s. france,                                        ­into comparable possible antitrust violations. in october 2010,
siemens sanayi ve ticaret a.s., turkey, and the former siemens                                  the high court of new zealand dismissed corresponding
subsidiary osram middle east fze, dubai, are among the 93                                       charges against siemens.
named defendants. in february 2013, the court dismissed the
republic of iraq ’s action with prejudice. the republic of iraq                                 as previously reported, in september 2011, the israeli antitrust
has appealed this decision.                                                                     authority requested siemens to present its legal position
                                                                                                ­regarding an alleged anti-competitive arrangement between
antitrust proceedings                                                                           april 1988 and april 2004 in the field of gas-insulated switch-
as previously reported, in february 2007, the european com-                                      gear. in september 2013, the israeli antitrust authority con-
mission launched an investigation into possible antitrust vio-                                   cluded that siemens ag was a party to an illegal restrictive
lations involving european producers of power transformers,                                    ­
                                                                                               arrangement regarding the israeli gas-insulated switchgear
including siemens ag and va technologie ag, austria (va                                        market between 1988 and 2004, with an interruption from
tech), which siemens acquired in july 2005. the german anti-                                   ­october 1999 to february 2002. the company is considering to
trust authority (bundeskartellamt) has become involved in the                                   appeal this decision.
proceeding and is responsible for investigating those allega-
tions that relate to the german market. power transformers are                                 based on the above mentioned conclusion of the israel anti-
electrical equipment used as major components in electric                                      trust authority, electricity consumer groups filed two class-ac-
transmission systems in order to adapt voltages. in october                                    tions for cartel damages against a number of companies in-
2009, the european commission imposed fines totaling €68                                       cluding siemens ag with an israeli district court in september
million on seven companies with regard to a territorial market                                 2013. the plaintiffs seek compensation for alleged damages,
sharing agreement related to japan and europe. siemens was                                     which are claimed to amount to €582 million. in addition, ac-
not fined because it had voluntarily disclosed this aspect of                                  cording to an ad hoc-notice of the israel electric corporation
the case to the authorities. the german antitrust authority                                    (iec), the iec is concurrently preparing to file a separate claim
continued its investigation with regard to the german market.                                  for damages against siemens ag and other companies that al-
in september 2012, the german antitrust authority and the                                      legedly formed a cartel in the israeli gas-insulated switchgear
company ended the legal proceeding by entering into a settle-                                  market. siemens ag is defending itself.
ment agreement. siemens agreed to pay a fine in the sin-
gle-digit € million range.                                                                     as previously reported, in november 2010, the greek compe-
                                                                                               tition authority searched the premises of siemens s.a. in
as previously reported, in april 2007, siemens ag and former                                   ­athens in response to allegations of anti-competitive practices
va tech companies filed actions before the european court of                                    in the field of telecommunication and security. in august 2012,
first instance in luxemburg against the decisions of the euro-                                  the proceedings were discontinued without sanctions based
pean commission dated january 24, 2007, to fine siemens and                                     on the settlement agreement between siemens and the greek
former va tech companies for alleged antitrust violations in                                    state mentioned above.
the european market of high-voltage gas-insulated switchgear
between calendar 1988 and 2004. gas-insulated switchgear is                                    in connection with the january 24, 2007 decision of the
electrical equipment used as a major component for power                                       ­european commission regarding alleged antitrust violations in
substations. the fine imposed on siemens ag amounted to                                         the high-voltage gas-insulated switchgear market, claims are
€396.6 million and was paid by the company in calendar 2007.                                    being made against siemens. among others, a claim was filed
the fine imposed on former va tech companies, which                                             by national grid electricity transmission plc. (national grid)
siemens ag acquired in july 2005, amounted to €22.1 million.                                    with the high court of england and wales in november 2008.
in addition, former va tech companies were declared jointly                                     21 companies have been named as defendants, including
liable with schneider electric for a separate fine of €4.5 mil-                                 siemens ag and various of its subsidiaries. national grid orig-
lion. in march 2011, the european court of first instance dis-                                  inally asserted claims in the aggregate amount of approxi-
missed the case regarding the fine imposed on siemens ag                                        mately £249 million for damages and compound interest. in
and re-calculated the fines for the former va tech companies.                                   november 2012, national grid increased the aggregate amount
former va tech companies were declared jointly liable with                                      to £364 million due to accrued compound interest. siemens
schneider electric for a fine of €8.1 million. siemens ag and                                   believes national grid’s claim to be without merit. as discussed,
former va tech companies appealed the decision in may 2011.                                     the european commission’s decision has been appealed to the




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    309
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      european court of first instance. in june 2009, the high court             as previously reported, in june 2007, the turkish antitrust
      granted a stay of the proceedings pending before it. in june               agency confirmed its earlier decision to impose a fine in an
      2009, the siemens defendants filed their answers to the com-               amount equivalent to €6 million on siemens sanayi ve ticaret
      plaint and requested national grid’s claim to be rejected. a               a.s., turkey, based on alleged antitrust violations in the traffic
      case management conference was held in november 2012. the                  lights market. siemens sanayi ve ticaret a.s. has appealed this
      high court of england and wales lifted the stay of the proceed-            decision and this appeal is still pending.
      ings granted in june 2009 and decided on the scope of further
      discovery and set a time schedule leading up to a court session            in may 2012, the brazilian anti-trust authority notified
      expected to be held in 2014.                                               siemens ltda., brazil of an investigation into anti-trust behav-
                                                                                 ior in the field of air-insulated switchgear and other products
      as previously reported, in december 2010 and in march 2011,                from calendar 1997 to 2006. siemens is cooperating with the
      the turkish antitrust authority searched the premises of sev-              authorities.
      eral diagnostic companies including, among others, siemens
      healthcare diagnostik ticaret limited sirketi in turkey, in re-            as mentioned above, in may 2013, siemens ltda. brazil entered
      sponse to allegations of anti-competitive agreements. siemens              into a leniency agreement with the administrative council for
      cooperated with the authority. in may 2012, the turkish anti-              economic defense and other relevant authorities relating to
      trust authority decided that the law had not been violated, and            several brazilian metro transport projects. the company is
      discontinued the proceedings.                                              ­cooperating with the authorities. it cannot be excluded that
                                                                                  significant cartel damages claims will be brought by customers
      as previously reported, the italian antitrust authority searched            against siemens ltda. brazil based on the outcome of the
      the premises of several healthcare companies, among others                  ­investigations.
      those of siemens healthcare diagnostics s.r.l. and siemens
      s.p.a. in february 2010. the investigation addresses allega-               other proceedings
      tions of anti-competitive agreements in relation to a tender of            as previously reported, siemens ag is a member of a supplier
      the procurement entity for the public healthcare sector in the             consortium that has been contracted to construct the nuclear
      region of campania for the supply of medical equipment in cal-             power plant “olkiluoto 3” in finland for teollisuuden voima
      endar 2009. in may 2011, the italian antitrust authority sent a            oyj (tvo) on a turnkey basis. siemens ag’s share of the con-
      statement of objections to the companies under investigation               sideration to be paid to the supplier consortium under the
      which confirmed that the proceedings against siemens                       contract is approximately 27%. the other member of the sup-
      healthcare diagnostics s.r.l. were closed, but accused siemens             plier consortium is a further consortium consisting of areva
      s.p.a. of having participated in an anti-competitive arrange-              np s.a.s. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, areva np gmbh.
      ment. in august 2011, the italian antitrust authority fined sev-           the agreed completion date for the nuclear power plant was
      eral companies, including siemens s.p.a. for alleged anti-com-             april 30, 2009. completion of the power plant has been de-
      petitive behavior. the fine imposed on siemens s.p.a. amounts              layed for ­reasons which are in dispute. in december 2011, the
      to €1.1 million. the company appealed the decision. in april               supplier consortium informed tvo that the completion of the
      2012, the regional administrative court overturned the deci-               plant is expected in august 2014. in february 2013 tvo an-
      sion of the italian antitrust authority. in november 2012, the             nounced that it is preparing for the possibility that the start of
      italian antitrust authority appealed the decision of the region-           the regular electricity production of the plant may be post-
      al administrative court.                                                   poned until calendar year 2016. the supplier consortium and
                                                                                 tvo continue to assess the schedule and the risk of further
      as previously reported, in september 2011, the competition                 slippage in ­detail. the final phases of the plant completion re-
      commission of pakistan requested siemens pakistan engineer-                quire the full cooperation of all parties involved. in december
      ing co. ltd., pakistan (siemens pakistan), to present its legal            2008, the ­supplier consortium filed a request for arbitration
      position regarding an alleged anti-competitive arrangement                 against tvo demanding an extension of the construction
      since calendar 2007 in the field of transformers and air-insulat-          time, additional compensation, milestone payments, damag-
      ed switchgears. siemens cooperated with the authority. in de-              es and interest. in june 2011, the supplier consortium in-
      cember 2011, siemens pakistan filed a leniency application. in             creased its monetary claim to €1.94 billion. tvo rejected the
      april 2012, the competition commission of pakistan accepted                claims and made counterclaims against the supplier consor-
      the leniency application and granted siemens pakistan a 100%               tium consisting primarily of damages due to the delay. in june
      penalty reduction for the alleged behavior.                                2012, the arbitral tribunal rendered a partial award ordering




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.   corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
310

the release of withheld m ­ ilestone payments to the supplier                                  in july 2008, hellenic telecommunications organization s.a.
consortium of approximately €101 million plus interest. as of                                  (ote) filed a lawsuit against siemens ag with the district court
september 2012, tvo’s alleged counterclaims amounted to                                        of munich, germany, seeking to compel siemens ag to dis-
€1.59 billion based on a delay of up to 56 months. based on a                                  close the outcome of its internal investigations with respect to
completion in august 2014, tvo estimates that its counter-                                     ote. ote seeks to obtain information with respect to allega-
claims amount to €1.77 billion. the further delay beyond                                       tions of undue influence and / or acts of bribery in connection
56 months (beyond december 2013) as well as the further                                        with contracts concluded between siemens ag and ote from
slippage in the schedule currently under assessment by the                                     calendar 1992 to 2006. in may 2009, ote was granted access to
supplier consortium and tvo could lead tvo to further in-                                      the public prosecutor’s files in greece. at the end of july 2010,
crease its counterclaims. in october 2013 the supplier consor-                                 ote expanded its claim and requested payment of damages by
tium increased its claim for an extension of construction time                                 siemens ag of at least €57.07 million to ote for alleged bribery
and its monetary claims to €2.65 billion. the arbitration pro-                                 payments to ote-employees. while siemens ag continues to
ceedings may continue for several years.                                                       defend itself against the expanded claim, siemens ag and ote
                                                                                               remain in discussions to resolve the matter.
as previously reported, siemens ag terminated its joint ven-
ture with areva s.a. (areva) in january 2009. thereafter                                       as previously reported, siemens a.e. entered into a subcon-
siemens ag entered into negotiations with the state atomic                                     tract agreement with science applications international cor-
energy corporation rosatom (rosatom) with a view to forming                                    poration, delaware, usa, (saic) in may of 2003 to deliver and
a new partnership active in the construction of nuclear power                                  install a significant portion of a security surveillance system
plants, in which it would be a minority shareholder. in april                                  (the c4i project) in advance of the olympic games in athens,
2009, areva filed a request for arbitration with the icc against                               greece. siemens a.e. fulfilled its obligations pursuant to the
siemens ag. areva sought an order enjoining siemens ag                                         subcontract agreement. nonetheless, the greek government
from pursuing such negotiations with rosatom, a declaration                                    claimed errors related to the c4i-system and withheld amounts
that siemens ag is in material breach of its contractual obliga-                               for abatement in a double-digit million € range. furthermore,
 tions and a reduction of the price payable to siemens ag for its                              the greek government is withholding the final payment in a
stake in the areva np s.a.s. joint venture. the final award of                                 double-digit million € range, claiming that the system has not
the arbitral tribunal was notified in may 2011. according to this                              yet been finally accepted. although siemens a.e. is not a con-
award, siemens had to pay areva liquidated damages of €648                                     tractual party of the greek government, under siemens a.e.’s
million plus interest. pursuant to the arbitral award, the dis-                                subcontract agreement with saic non-payment by the greek
puted non-compete obligation was reduced to four years                                         government also has an economic effect on siemens a.e. saic
­(ending in september 2013).                                                                   has filed for arbitration contesting all the greek government’s
                                                                                               claims and the withholding of payments. in july 2013, the arbi-
as previously reported, siemens is involved in the construction                                tration court issued the arbitral award ordering the greek state
of a power plant in the united states. siemens energy, inc.,                                   to pay €40 million to saic. the greek state is contesting the
usa, and kvaerner north american construction, inc., usa                                       enforcement of the arbitral award. the final resolution of
(kvaerner) are consortium partners in this project, commis-                                    this dispute has been complicated by public bribery and
sioned by longview power llc, usa (longview). foster wheel-                                    fraud ­allegations against siemens a.e. in greece, which have
er north america corp, usa (foster wheeler) supplied the boil-                                 resulted in extensive negative media coverage concerning the
er for the project. kvaerner filed an arbitration request before                               c4i system.
the american arbitration association in june 2011, and in octo-
ber and november 2012, the parties filed claims for monetary                                   as previously reported, russian authorities are conducting
damages against one another. the amounts claimed by                                            widespread investigations regarding possible fraudulent activ-
longview and foster wheeler from the consortium partners to-                                   ities of resellers and governmental officials relating to procure-
tal approximately us$243 million. siemens filed claims for                                     ment of medical equipment in the public sector. as is the case
monetary damages of approximately us$110 million against                                       with other providers of medical equipment, ooo siemens,
longview and foster wheeler. kvaerner is claiming approxi-                                     russia, has received numerous information requests and in-
mately us$252.8 million from longview and foster wheeler.                                      quiries were made on-site by the authorities regarding tenders
longview filed for bankruptcy under chapter 11 of the us bank-                                 in the public healthcare sector. ooo siemens is cooperating in
ruptcy code, which may result in delay to the arbitration pro-                                 the ongoing investigations which also relate to certain individ-
ceeding dealing with the claim and counterclaim.                                               ual employees.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                    311
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      as previously reported, in april 2009, the defense criminal               in the amount of €238 million for alleged breaches of the
      ­investigative service of the u.s. department of defense con-             framework agreement entered into among the parties in
       ducted a search at the premises of siemens medical solutions             2007. the claims ­related to a contract which had been trans-
       usa, inc., united states, in malvern, pennsylvania, in connec-           ferred to a subsidiary of nsn. in connection with the sale of
       tion with an investigation relating to a siemens contract with           siemens ag’s shares in nsn to nokia on july 1, 2013, the par-
       the u.s. department of defense for the provision of medical              ties settled the dispute.
       equipment. siemens is cooperating with the authorities.
                                                                                end of october 2013 essent wind nordsee ost planungs- und
      as previously reported, in june 2009, siemens ag and two of               betriebsgesellschaft mbh filed a request for arbitration against
      its subsidiaries voluntarily self-reported, among others, possi-          siemens ag alleging violations of a contract for the delivery of
      ble violations of u.s. export administration regulations to the           a high voltage substation entered into by the parties in 2010.
      responsible u.s. authorities. in october, 2011, the u.s. depart-          the claimant claims damages in an amount of €256 million
      ment of commerce notified siemens that it closed its case                 plus interest and a determination that siemens ag shall be
      without taking further action. in january 2013, the u.s. depart-          ­liable for any further damages, which are claimed to amount to
      ment of the treasury notified siemens that it closed its case              €152 million. siemens ag will defend itself against this action.
      without taking further action.
                                                                                for legal proceedings information required under ias 37, provi-
      as previously reported, in december 2011, the united states               sions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, is not
      ­attorney ’s office for the northern district of new york served          ­disclosed, if the company concludes that the disclosure can
       a grand jury subpoena on siemens that seeks records of                    be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the litigation.
       ­consulting payments for business conducted by the building
        technologies business unit in new york state over the period            in addition to the investigations and legal proceedings de-
        from january 1, 2000 through september 30, 2011. in june                scribed above, siemens ag and its subsidiaries have been
        2013, the authority notified siemens that it closed its case.           named as defendants in various other legal actions and pro-
                                                                                ceedings arising in connection with their activities as a global
      in february 2012, the united states attorney ’s office for the            diversified group. some of these pending proceedings have
      eastern district of new york served a subpoena on siemens                 been previously disclosed. some of the legal actions include
      healthcare diagnostics inc., united states, for information re-           claims or potential claims for punitive damages or claims for
      lating to a diagnostics process. siemens is cooperating with              indeterminate amounts of damages. siemens is from time to
      the authority.                                                            time also involved in regulatory investigations beyond those
                                                                                described above. siemens is cooperating with the relevant au-
      in january 2013, siemens electrical, llc, usa (siemens electri-           thorities in several jurisdictions and, where appropriate, con-
      cal), an entity wholly-owned by siemens industry, inc., usa,              ducts internal investigations regarding potential wrongdoing
      entered into a deferred prosecution agreement (dpa) with the              with the assistance of in-house and external counsel. given
      new york county district attorney ’s office. the dpa relates to           the number of legal actions and other proceedings to which
      misconduct concerning master electrician and minority busi-               siemens is subject, some may result in adverse decisions.
      ness enterprise requirements in connection with contracts                 siemens contests actions and proceedings when it considers it
      with the new york city department of environmental protec-                appropriate. in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the
      tion. the individuals responsible for the admitted misconduct             outcome of such matters, particularly in cases in which claim-
      were siemens’ former business partners to the predecessor                 ants seek indeterminate damages, siemens may not be able to
      to siemens electrical. under the terms of the dpa, siemens                predict what the eventual loss or range of loss related to such
      electrical agreed to, among other things, forfeit us$10 million.          matters will be. the final resolution of the matters discussed
      the case will be dismissed after two years if the company                 in this paragraph could have a material effect on siemens’
      meets certain specified conditions under the dpa.                         business, results of operations and financial condition for any
                                                                                reporting period in which an adverse decision is rendered.
      in march 2013, nokia siemens networks holding b.v. (nsn),                 however, siemens currently does not expect its business,
      nokia corporation and nokia finance international b.v. (nokia             ­results of operations and financial condition to be materially
      finance) filed a request for arbitration against siemens ag.               affected by the additional legal matters not separately dis-
      nsn, nokia corporation and nokia finance sought damages                    cussed in this paragraph.




      92   a.   to our shareholders               117   b.   corporate ­governance                    155   c.   combined ­management report
312

      additional disclosures
note 30

on financial instruments
the following table presents the carrying amounts of each
­category of financial assets and financial liabilities:



                                                                                                                                                                                        september 30,
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                                                    2013                     2012
 financial assets:
 loans and receivables                                                                                                                                            29,331                     28,439
 cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                                          9,190                    10,891
 derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship                                                                                                             625                    1,918
 financial assets held for trading                                                                                                                                  1,705                     1,410
 available-for-sale financial assets                                                                                                                                2,161                     1,546
                                                                                                                                                                  43,010                     44,203


 financial liabilities:
 financial liabilities measured at amortized cost                                                                                                                 29,704                     30,160
 financial liabilities held for trading                                                                                                                                887                      920
 derivatives designated in a hedge accounting relationship                                                                                                             160                      204
                                                                                                                                                                  30,751                     31,284




the following table presents the fair values and carrying
amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities measured
at cost or amortized cost:



                                                                                                                                            september 30, 2013                   september 30, 2012
                                                                                                                                                           carrying                          carrying
 (in millions of €)                                                                                                                   fair value           amount          fair value        amount

 financial assets measured at cost or amortized cost
  trade and other receivables 1                                                                                                        12,944              12,944              13,344        13,344
  receivables from finance leases                                                                                                          5,261             5,261              5,059         5,059
  cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                9,190             9,190             10,891        10,891
  other non-derivative financial assets                                                                                                11,126              11,126              10,036        10,036
  available-for-sale financial assets 2                                                                                                          –              167                –            293


 financial liabilities measured at cost or amortized cost
  notes and bonds                                                                                                                      18,742              18,491              18,460        18,212
  trade payables 3                                                                                                                         7,599             7,599              8,036         8,036
  loans from banks and other financial indebtedness                                                                                        1,821             1,832              2,340         2,334
  obligations under finance leases                                                                                                           167                130              202            161
  other non-derivative financial liabilities                                                                                               1,651             1,651              1,418         1,418


       1 consists of (1) €12,932 million and €13,310 million trade        as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, trade receivables            for-sale, for which a fair value could not be reliably
          receivables from the sale of goods and services in fiscal        from the sale of goods and services of €612 million             measured and which are therefore recognized at cost.
          2013 and 2012, respectively, as well as (2) €11 million          and €685 million have a remaining term of more than
                                                                                                                                      3 as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, trade payables of
          and €34 million receivables included in line item other          twelve months.
                                                                                                                                         €32 million and €128 million have a remaining term of
          financial assets in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively.
                                                                        2 consists of equity instruments classified as available-       more than twelve months.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                       357    e.       additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                        313
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                     258    d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income      260    d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position        348    d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      cash and cash equivalents includes €320 million and €199­                 financial instruments categorized as financial assets and
      ­million as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which           ­financial liabilities measured at fair value are presented in the
       are not available for use by siemens mainly due to minimum                following table:
       reserve requirements with banks.

      as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, the carrying amount of                                                                                            september 30,
      ­financial assets siemens has pledged as collateral amounted                   (in millions of €)                                             2013           2012

       to €344 million and €500 million, respectively.                               financial assets measured at fair value
                                                                                      available-for-sale financial assets                        1,994          1,252
      the fair values of cash and cash equivalents, trade and other                   derivative financial instruments                           2,330          3,328
      receivables and trade payables with a remaining term of up to                    not designated in a hedge
                                                                                        accounting relationship                                   1,587          1,202
      twelve months, other current financial liabilities and borrow-
                                                                                        in connection with fair value hedges                        472          1,783
      ings under revolving credit facilities approximate their carry-
                                                                                         foreign currency exchange derivatives                         6             22
      ing amount, mainly due to the short-term maturities of these
                                                                                        interest rate derivatives                                   466          1,761
      instruments.
                                                                                        in connection with cash flow hedges                         153            135
                                                                                         foreign currency exchange derivatives                      152            132
      fixed-rate and variable-rate receivables with a remaining term
                                                                                        commodity derivatives                                          1              3
      of more than twelve months, including receivables from
                                                                                       embedded derivatives                                         118            208
      ­finance leases, are evaluated by the company based on pa-
                                                                                                                                                  4,324          4,580
       rameters such as interest rates, specific country risk factors,
       individual creditworthiness of the customer, and the risk char-
                                                                                     financial liabilities measured at fair value
        acteristics of the financed project. based on this evaluation,
                                                                                      derivative financial instruments                           1,047          1,125
        allowances for these receivables are recognized. as of sep-                    not designated in a hedge
        tember 30, 2013 and 2012, the carrying amounts of such                          accounting relationship                                     765            823
       ­receivables, net of allowances, approximate their fair values.                  in connection with fair value hedges                           8             11
                                                                                         foreign currency exchange derivatives                         3              2
      the fair value of quoted notes and bonds is based on price                        interest rate derivatives                                      5              9
      quotations at the period-end date. the fair value of unquoted                     in connection with cash flow hedges                         152            193
      notes and bonds, loans from banks and other financial indebt-                      foreign currency exchange derivatives                      148            185
      edness, obligations under finance leases as well as other                         interest rate derivatives                                      –              8
      non-current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting                     commodity derivatives                                          3              –
      ­future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of                   embedded derivatives                                         122              98
       similar terms and remaining maturities.                                                                                                    1,047          1,125




                                                                                the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets quoted in an
                                                                                active market is based on price quotations at the period-end
                                                                                date. the fair value of unquoted debt instruments is estimated
                                                                                by discounting future cash flows using current market interest
                                                                                rates.

                                                                                the company limits default risks resulting from derivative
                                                                                financial instruments by a careful counterparty selection.
                                                                                ­
                                                                                ­derivative financial instruments are generally transacted with
                                                                                 financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. the
                                                                                 fair valuation of derivative financial instruments at siemens
                                                                                 incorporates all factors that market participants would con-
                                                                                 sider, including the counterparties’ credit risks. the exact
                                                                                 ­calculation of fair values of derivative financial instruments
                                                                                  depends on the specific type of instrument:




      92   a.   to our shareholders               117   b.   corporate ­governance                             155   c.      combined ­management report
314

derivative interest rate contracts – the fair values of derivative                             the levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to our
interest rate contracts (e.g. interest rate swap agreements) are                               financial assets and financial liabilities are described below:
estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using
current market interest rates and yield curves over the remain-                                    level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets
ing term of the instrument. interest rate futures and interest                                     or liabilities;
rate options are valued on the basis of quoted market prices
when available. if quoted market prices are not available, inter-                                  level 2: inputs other than quoted prices that are observ-
est rate options are valued based on option pricing models.                                        able for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or
                                                                                                   indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and
derivative currency contracts – the fair value of foreign cur-
rency exchange contracts is based on forward exchange rates.                                       level 3: inputs for assets or liabilities, not based on observ-
currency options are valued on the basis of quoted market                                          able market data.
prices or on estimates based on option pricing models.
                                                                                               net gains (losses) of financial instruments are as follows:
derivative commodity contracts – the fair value of commodity
swaps is based on forward commodity prices. commodity
­options are valued on the basis of quoted market prices or on                                                                                                year ended september 30,
 estimates based on option pricing models.                                                       (in millions of €)                                                 2013         2012
                                                                                                 cash and cash equivalents                                            (1)          11
in determining the fair values of the derivative financial                                       available-for-sale financial assets                                 (99)          83
­instruments, no compensating effects from underlying trans-                                     loans and receivables                                              (178)       (238)
 actions (e.g. firm commitments and forecast transactions) are                                   financial liabilities
                                                                                                 measured at amortized cost                                         408         (258)
 taken into consideration.
                                                                                                 financial assets and
                                                                                                 financial liabilities held for trading                             363         (189)
the following table allocates financial assets and financial
­liabilities measured at fair value to the three levels of the fair
 value hierarchy.
                                                                                               net gains (losses) in fiscal 2013 and 2012 on available-for-sale
                                                                                               financial assets include net gains on derecognition as well as
                                                                     september 30, 2013        impairment losses. net losses on loans and receivables con-
 (in millions of €)                              level 1   level 2    level 3      total       tain changes in valuation allowances, gains or losses on
 financial assets                                                                              derecognition as well as recoveries of amounts previously
 measured at fair value
                                                                                               written-off. net gains (losses) in fiscal 2013 and 2012 on finan-
  available-for-sale financial assets          1,884         110          –    1,994
                                                                                               cial liabilities measured at amortized cost are comprised of
  derivative financial instruments                   –    2,330            –    2,330
                                                                                               gains (losses) from derecognition and the ineffective portion
 total                                           1,884     2,440            –    4,324
                                                                                               of fair value hedges. net gains (losses) in fiscal 2013 and 2012
 financial liabilities
 measured at fair value
                                                                                               on financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading con-
  derivative financial instruments                    –    1,047            –    1,047
                                                                                               sist of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instru-
                                                                                               ments, including interest income and expense, for which
                                                                                               hedge accounting is not applied.

                                                                                               the amounts presented include foreign currency gains and
                                                                     september 30, 2012        losses from the realization and valuation of the financial ­assets
 (in millions of €)                              level 1   level 2    level 3      total       and liabilities mentioned above.
 financial assets
 measured at fair value
  available-for-sale financial assets          1,252          –           –    1,252
  derivative financial instruments                   –    3,328            –    3,328
 total                                           1,252     3,328            –    4,580
 financial liabilities
 measured at fair value
  derivative financial instruments                    –    1,125            –    1,125




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              357   e.      additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                         315
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

           derivative financial instruments
      note 31                                                                               s­ubstantial parties to the contract nor a currency which is
      and hedging activities                                                                 commonly used in the economic environment in which the
                                                                                             contract takes place. gains (losses) relating to such embedded
      as part of the company ’s risk management program, a variety                           foreign currency derivatives are reported in line item cost of
      of derivative financial instruments is used to reduce risks                            sales in the consolidated statements of income.
      resulting primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency
      ­
      ­exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.                                 hedging activities
                                                                                            the company ’s operating units apply hedge accounting for
      the fair values of each type of derivative financial instruments                      certain significant forecast transactions and firm commit-
      recorded as financial assets or financial liabilities are as                          ments denominated in foreign currencies. particularly, the
      ­f­ollows:                                                                            company has entered into foreign currency exchange con-
                                                                                            tracts to reduce the risk of variability of future cash flows
                                                                                            ­resulting from forecast sales and purchases as well as firm
                                       september 30, 2013          september 30, 2012        commitments. this risk results mainly from contracts denomi-
       (in millions of €)               asset    liability          asset     liability      nated in us$ both from siemens’ operating units entering into
       foreign currency                                                                      long-term contracts, e.g. project business, and from the stan-
       exchange contracts                416        331              343         325
                                                                                             dard product business.
       interest rate swaps
       and combined
       interest/currency swaps         1,637        261            2,577         534        cash flow hedges – as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, the in-
       commodity swaps                    35          49                36         27       effective portion of cash flow hedges is not significant individ-
       embedded derivatives              118        122              208           98       ually or in aggregate.
       options                           123        281              164         141
       credit default swaps                –            4               –            –      periods in which the hedged forecast transactions or the firm
                                       2,330      1,047            3,328       1,125        commitments denominated in foreign currency are expected
                                                                                            to impact profit or loss:



      foreign currency exchange rate                                                                                                                   year ended september 30,
      risk management                                                                                                                                       2016 to    2019 and
                                                                                                 (in millions of €)                    2014        2015       2018    thereafter
      derivative financial instruments
                                                                                                 expected gain (loss)
      not designated in a hedging relationship                                                   to be reclassified from line
      the company manages its risks associated with fluctuations in                              item other comprehensive
      foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt,                                  income, net of income taxes
                                                                                                 into revenue or cost of sales          54         (14)        (36)           3
      firm commitments and forecast transactions primarily through
      a company-wide portfolio approach. under this approach the
      company-wide risks are aggregated centrally, and various
      derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign currency
      ­                                                                                     interest rate risk management
      ­exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and options, are                          interest rate risk arises from the sensitivity of financial assets
       utilized to minimize such risks. such a strategy does not                            and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. the compa-
       ­qualify for hedge accounting treatment. accordingly, all such                       ny seeks to mitigate that risk by entering into interest rate
        derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on                      ­derivatives such as interest rate swaps, options, interest rate
        the consolidated statements of financial position, either in                         futures and forward rate agreements.
        line items other current financial assets (liabilities) or line
        items other financial assets (liabilities); changes in fair values                  derivative financial instruments
        are charged to net income (loss).                                                   not designated in a hedging relationship
                                                                                            for the interest rate risk management relating to the group
      the company also has foreign currency derivatives, which are                          ­excluding sfs’ business, derivative financial instruments are
      embedded in sale and purchase contracts denominated in                                 used under a portfolio-based approach to manage interest risk
      a currency that is neither the functional currency of the                              actively relative to a benchmark. the interest rate management




      92   a.    to our shareholders                         117   b.    corporate ­governance                           155     c.   combined ­management report
316

relating to the sfs’ business remains to be managed separately,                                  ness hedged as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 was €7,100
considering the term structure of sfs’ financial assets and                                      million and €11,253 million, respectively. this changed 41%
­liabilities on a portfolio basis. neither approach qualifies for                              and 66% of the company ’s underlying notes and bonds from
 hedge accounting treatment. accordingly, all interest rate                                    fixed interest rates into variable interest rates as of september
 derivatives held in this relation are recorded at fair value,
 ­                                                                                             30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the notional amounts of these
 ­either in line items other current financial assets (liabilities) or                         contracts mature at varying dates based on the maturity of the
  in line items other financial assets (liabilities), and changes in                           underlying hedged items. the net fair value of interest rate
  the fair values are charged to line item other financial income                              swap contracts (excluding accrued interest) used to hedge
  (expenses), net. net cash receipts and payments relating to                                  ­indebtedness as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 was €385
  ­interest rate swaps used in offsetting relationships are also                                ­million and €1,586 million, respectively. to reduce counter­
   ­recorded in line item other financial income (expenses), net.                                party risk, siemens agreed in fiscal 2013 to adjust the fixed rate
                                                                                                 of several interest rate swaps to market levels in exchange for
fair value hedges of fixed-rate debt obligations                                                 receiving a fair value compensation.
under the interest rate swap agreements outstanding during
the years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012, the company                                       cash flow hedges of a variable-rate term loan
has agreed to pay a variable rate of interest multiplied by a no-                              as of september 30, 2012, the company applied cash flow
tional principle amount, and receives in return an amount                                      hedge accounting for 50% of a variable-rate us$1 billion term
equal to a specified fixed rate of interest multiplied by the                                  loan. to benefit from the low interest rates in the u.s., the
same notional principal amount. these interest rate swap                                       company entered into interest rate swap agreements to pay a
agreements offset an impact of future changes in interest rates                                fixed rate of interest and to receive in return a variable rate of
designated as the hedged risk on the fair value of the underly-                                interest. these interest rate swap agreements offset the effect
ing fixed-rate debt obligations. the interest rate swap con-                                   of future changes in interest payments to be made for the
tracts are recorded at fair value in the company ’s consolidated                               underlying variable-rate term loan. the variable-rate term
                                                                                               ­
statements of financial position and the related portion of                                    loan and the corresponding interest rate swap agreements
fixed-rate debt being hedged is recorded at an amount equal to                                 matured in august 2013. in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the cash flow
the sum of its carrying amount plus an adjustment represent-                                   hedges of the variable-rate term loan did not result in any
ing the change in fair value of the debt obligations attributable                              ­ineffective portion. net cash receipts and payments relating to
to the respective interest rate risk being hedged. changes in                                   such interest rate swap agreements are recorded as interest
the fair value of interest rate swap contracts and the offsetting                               expenses.
changes in the adjusted carrying amount of the related por-
tion of fixed-rate debt being hedged are recognized in line item                               commodity price risk management
other financial income (expenses), net in the consolidated                                     derivative financial instruments not designated
statements of income. adjustments in the carrying amount of                                    in a hedging relationship
the debt obligations resulted in a gain (loss) of €293 million                                 the company applies a portfolio approach to manage the
and €(227) million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. during                               ­company-wide risks associated with fluctuations in commod-
the same period, the related swap agreements resulted in a                                      ity prices from firm commitments and forecast transactions by
gain (loss) of €(305) million and €233 million, respectively.                                   entering into commodity swaps and commodity options. such
­accordingly, the net effect recognized in line item other fi-                                  a strategy does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.
 nancial income (expenses), net, representing the ineffective
 portion of the hedging relationship, amounts to €(12) million                                 cash flow hedging activities
 and €7 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. net cash                                the company ’s corporate procurement applies cash flow
 receipts and payments relating to such interest rate swap                                     hedge accounting for certain firm commitments to purchase
 agreements are recorded as interest expenses.                                                 copper. the ineffective portion as well as resulting gains and
                                                                                               (losses) were not significant individually or in aggregate.
the company had interest rate swap contracts to pay variable
rates of interest of an average of 0.3% and 0.5% as of septem-                                 it is expected that €104 million of net deferred losses in line
ber 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively and received fixed rates of                                item other comprehensive income, net of income taxes will be
interest (average rate of 3.5% and 5.1% as of september 30,                                    reclassified into line item cost of sales in fiscal 2014, when the
2013 and 2012, respectively). the notional amount of indebted-                                 consumption of the hedged commodity purchases is recog-




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                      317
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      nized in line item cost of sales. as of september 30, 2013 and               come may differ substantially from var figures due to funda-
      2012, the maximum length of time over which the company is                   mental conceptual differences. the consolidated statements
      hedging its future commodity purchases is 87 months and 99                   of income and consolidated statements of comprehensive in-
      months, respectively.                                                        come are prepared in accordance with ifrs. the var figures
                                                                                   are the output of a model with a purely financial perspective
                                                                                   and represent the potential financial loss which will not be ex-
      note 32    financial risk management                                         ceeded within ten days with a probability of 99.5%. the con-
                                                                                   cept of var is used for internal management of the corporate
      siemens’ financial risk management is an integral part of how                treasury activities.
      to plan and execute its business strategies. siemens’ financial
      risk management policy is set by the managing board.                         although var is an important tool for measuring market risk,
      siemens’ organizational and accountability structure requires                the assumptions on which the model is based give rise to
      each of the respective managements of siemens sectors, fi-                   some limitations including the following. a ten day holding
      nancial services, cross-sector services, regions and corporate               period assumes that it is possible to dispose of the underlying
      units to implement financial risk management programs that                   positions within this period. while this is considered to be a
      are tailored to their specific industries and responsibilities,              realistic assumption in almost all cases, it may not be valid
      while being consistent with the overall policy established by                during prolonged periods of severe market illiquidity. a 99.5%
      the managing board.                                                          confidence level does not reflect losses that may occur beyond
                                                                                   this level. there is a 0.5% statistical probability that losses
      increasing market fluctuations may result in significant cash                could exceed the calculated var. the use of historical data as a
      flow and earnings volatility risk for siemens. the company ’s                basis for estimating the statistic behavior of the relevant mar-
      operating business as well as its investment and financing ac-               kets and finally determining the possible range of the future
      tivities are affected by changes in foreign exchange rates, in-              outcomes on the basis of this statistic behavior may not al-
      terest rates, commodity prices and equity prices. in order to                ways cover all possible scenarios, especially those of an excep-
      optimize the allocation of the financial resources across the                tional nature. any market sensitive instruments, including eq-
      siemens segments and entities, as well as to secure an optimal               uity and interest bearing investments, that our company ’s
      return for its shareholders, siemens identifies, analyzes and                pension plans hold are not included in the following quantita-
      proactively manages the associated financial market risks. the               tive and qualitative disclosures.
      company seeks to manage and control these risks primarily
      through its regular operating and financing activities, and uses             foreign currency exchange rate risk
      derivative financial instruments when deemed appropriate.                    transaction risk and foreign currency
                                                                                   exchange rate risk management
      within the various methodologies to analyze and manage risk,                 siemens’ international operations expose the company to for-
      siemens has implemented a system based on parametric vari-                   eign currency exchange rate risks, particularly regarding fluc-
      ance-covariance value at risk (var). the var methodology pro-                tuations between the u.s. dollar and the euro, in the ordinary
      vides a quantification of market risks based on historical vola-             course of business. the company employs various strategies
      tilities and correlations of the different risk factors under the            discussed below involving the use of derivative financial in-
      assumptions of the parametric variance-covariance value at                   struments to mitigate or eliminate certain of those exposures.
      risk model. the var figures are calculated based on
                                                                                   foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may create un-
      >> historical volatilities and correlations,                                 wanted and unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility.
      >> a ten day holding period, and                                             each siemens unit conducting business with international
      >> a 99.5% confidence level                                                 counterparties that leads to future cash flows denominated in
                                                                                   a currency other than its functional currency is exposed to
      for foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk, com-            risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. foreign
      modity price risk and equity price risk as discussed below.                  currency exchange rate exposure is partly balanced by pur-
                                                                                   chasing of goods, commodities and services in the respective
      actual results that are included in the consolidated statements              currencies as well as production activities and other contribu-
      of income or consolidated statements of comprehensive in-                    tions along the value chain in the local markets.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                  117   b.   corporate ­governance                   155   c.   combined ­management report
318

operating units (including sfs) are prohibited from borrowing                                  siemens defines foreign currency exchange rate exposure gen-
or investing in foreign currencies on a speculative basis. inter-                              erally as items of the consolidated statement of financial posi-
company financing or investments of operating units are pref-                                  tion in addition to firm commitments which are denominated
erably carried out in their functional currency or on a hedged                                 in foreign currencies, as well as foreign currency denominated
basis.                                                                                         cash inflows and cash outflows from forecast transactions for
                                                                                               the following three months. this foreign currency exchange
siemens has established a foreign currency exchange rate risk                                  rate exposure is determined based on the respective function-
management system that has an established track record for                                     al currencies of the exposed siemens’ entities.
years. each siemens unit is responsible for recording, assess-
ing, monitoring, reporting and hedging its foreign currency                                    effects of foreign currency translation
transaction exposure. the binding guideline for siemens’ oper-                                 many siemens units are located outside the euro zone. since
ating units provides the concept for the identification and                                    the financial reporting currency of siemens is the euro, the fi-
determination of a single net foreign currency position for
­                                                                                              nancial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into euro
each unit and commits the units to hedge this aggregated po-                                   for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. to
sition within a narrow band of at least 75% but no more than                                   consider the effects of foreign currency translation in the risk
100% of their net foreign currency position. in addition, the                                  management, the general assumption is that investments in
guideline provides a framework of the organizational structure                                 foreign-based operations are permanent and that r­ einvestment
necessary for foreign currency exchange rate risk manage-                                      is continuous. effects from foreign currency e­ xchange rate fluc-
ment, proposes hedging strategies and defines the hedging                                      tuations on the translation of net asset amounts into euro are
instruments available to the entities: foreign currency ex-                                    reflected in the company ’s consolidated equity position.
change contracts, foreign currency put and call options and
stop-loss orders. if there are no conflicting country specific                                 interest rate risk
regulations, hedging activities of the operating units are trans-                              siemens’ key consideration with respect to the interest rate
acted internally with corporate treasury. hedging transactions                                 risk management is to mitigate the risk resulting from changes
with external counterparties in the global financial markets                                   in the fair value of future cash flows. risk arises whenever in-
are carried out under these limitations by corporate treasury.                                 terest terms of financial assets and liabilities are different.
this includes hedging instruments which qualify for hedge ac-                                  siemens manages this risk using derivative financial instru-
counting.                                                                                      ments which allow the company to hedge fair value changes
                                                                                               by swapping fixed rates of interest into variable rates of inter-
siemens has a company-wide portfolio approach which gener-                                     est. in order to optimize the company ’s position with regard to
ates a benefit from any potential off-set of divergent cash flows                              interest income and interest expenses and to manage the over-
in the same currency, as well as optimized transaction costs.                                  all financial interest rate risk with respect to valuation risk af-
                                                                                               fecting profit and loss and economic risk of changing interest
the var relating to foreign currency exchange rates is calcu-                                  rates, corporate treasury performs a comprehensive corporate
lated by aggregating the net foreign currency positions after                                  interest rate risk management, under which the interest rate
hedging by the operating units. as of september 30, 2013 the                                   risk relating to the sfs’ business and to the remaining group
foreign currency exchange rate risk based on historical vola-                                  are managed separately.
tilities and correlations, a ten day holding period and a confi-
dence level of 99.5% resulted in a var of €6 million compared                                  if there are no conflicting country-specific regulations, all
to a var of €9 million in the year before. changes in euro val-                                siemens operating units generally obtain any required financ-
ues of future cash flows denominated in foreign currency due                                   ing through corporate treasury in the form of loans or inter-
to volatile foreign currency exchange rates might influence                                    company clearing accounts. the same concept is adopted for
the unhedged portion of revenues, but would also affect the                                    deposits of cash generated by the units.
unhedged portion of cost of materials. future changes in the
foreign currency exchange rates can impact sales prices and                                    assuming historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day
may lead to margin changes, the extent of which is deter-                                      holding period and a confidence level of 99.5% the interest
mined by the matching of foreign currency revenues and                                         rate var was €236 million as of september 30, 2013, increasing
­expenses.                                                                                     from the comparable value of €89 million as of september 30,




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                     319
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      2012. this interest rate risk results primarily from euro and u.s.          equity price risk
      dollar denominated long-term fixed rate debt obligations. the               siemens’ investment portfolio consists of direct and indirect
      increase in var related mainly to a decrease in the portion of              investments in publicly traded companies held for purposes
      the company ’s underlying notes and bonds being changed                     other than trading. the direct participations result mainly from
      from fixed interest rates into variable interest rates by using             strategic partnerships, strengthening siemens’ focus on its
      interest rate swap contracts, and to an increased volatility of             core business activities or compensation from m&a transac-
      relevant medium-term interest rates.                                        tions; indirect investments in fund shares are mainly transact-
                                                                                  ed for financial reasons.
      commodity price risk
      siemens’ production operations expose the company to vari-                  these investments are monitored based on their current mar-
      ous commodity price risks in the ordinary course of business.               ket value, affected primarily by fluctuations in the volatile
      especially in the sectors industry and energy a continuous                  technology-related markets worldwide. the market value of
      supply of copper was necessary for the operating activities.                siemens’ portfolio in publicly traded companies increased
      commodity price risk fluctuations may create unwanted and                   from €796 million as of september 30, 2012 to €1.444 billion as
      unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility. the company                of september 30, 2013, which was due primarily to the recog-
      employs various strategies discussed below involving the use                nition of our 17.0% stake in osram after the spin-off.
      of derivative financial instruments to mitigate or eliminate cer-
      tain of those exposures.                                                    based on historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day
                                                                                  ­holding period and a confidence level of 99.5%, the var as of
      siemens has established a commodity price risk management                    september 30, 2013 of siemens’ equity investments was €81
      system to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility. each                     million compared to €85 million the year before.
      siemens unit is responsible for recording, assessing, monitor-
      ing, reporting and hedging its risks from forecast and pending              liquidity risk
      commodity purchase transactions (commodity price risk ex-                   liquidity risk results from the company ’s potential inability to
      posure). the binding guideline for siemens operating units                  meet its financial liabilities, e.g. for the settlement of its finan-
      provides the concept for the identification and determination               cial debt or for ongoing cash requirements from operating ac-
      of the commodity price risk exposure and commits the units                  tivities. in addition to having implemented effective working
      to hedge it within a narrow band of 75% to 100% of the com-                 capital and cash management, siemens mitigates liquidity risk
      modity price risk exposure in the product business for the                  by arranged credit facilities with highly rated financial institu-
      next three months and 95% to 100% of the commodity price                    tions, via a debt issuance program and via a global multi-cur-
      risk exposure in the project business after receipt of order.               rency commercial paper program. liquidity risk may also be
      siemens operating units are prohibited from speculative                     mitigated by the siemens bank gmbh, which increases the
      transactions.                                                               flexibility of depositing cash or refinancing by using european
                                                                                  central bank accounts.
      the aggregated commodity price risk exposure is hedged with
      external counterparties through derivative financial hedging                in addition to the above-mentioned sources of liquidity,
      instruments by corporate treasury. derivative financial hedg-               siemens constantly monitors funding options available in the
      ing instruments designated for hedge accounting are directly                capital markets, as well as trends in the availability and costs
      entered into with external counterparties. additionally, siemens            of such funding, with a view to maintaining financial flexibility
      applies a company-wide portfolio approach which generates a                 and limiting repayment risks.
      benefit from optimizing the company ’s position of the overall
      financial commodity price risk.                                             the following table reflects all contractually fixed pay-offs for
                                                                                  settlement, repayments and interest resulting from recognized
      using historical volatilities and correlations, a ten day holding           financial liabilities as well as from irrevocable loan commit-
      period and a confidence level of 99.5%, the var, which com-                 ments. it includes expected net cash outflows from derivative
      prises the net position of commodity derivatives and the com-               financial liabilities that are in place as per september 30, 2013.
      modity purchase transactions with price risk, was €4 million                such expected net cash outflows are determined based on
      as of september 30, 2013 compared to €10 million as of sep-                 each particular settlement date of an instrument. the amounts
      tember 30, 2012.                                                            disclosed are undiscounted net cash outflows for the respec-




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.   corporate ­governance                     155   c.   combined ­management report
320

tive upcoming fiscal years, based on the earliest date on which                                  siemens had available at the respective period-end dates to
siemens could be required to pay. cash outflows for financial                                    fund its business operations and to pay for near-term obliga-
liabilities (including interest) without fixed amount or timing                                  tions. total liquidity comprises line items cash and cash
are based on the conditions existing at september 30, 2013.                                      equivalents as well as line item available-for-sale financial
                                                                                                 ­assets, as stated on the consolidated statements of financial
                                                                                                  position. management uses the net debt measure for internal
                                                               year ended september 30,           finance management, as well as for external communication
                                                                      2016 to     2019 and        with investors, analysts and rating agencies.
 (in millions of €)                         2014         2015           2018     thereafter

 non-derivative
 financial liabilities
  notes and bonds                         2,077          622          9,937         9,368                                                                                 september 30,
                                                                                                   (in millions of €)                                              2013           2012
  loans from banks                          478          393            859            11
                                                                                                   short-term debt and current
  other financial
                                                                                                   maturities of long-term debt                                   1,944         3,826
   indebtedness                               87           10               38           –
                                                                                                   long-term debt                                                18,509        16,880
  obligations under
   finance leases                            30            17               62         89          total debt                                                    20,453        20,707
  trade payables                          7,710            19               10           1         cash and cash equivalents                                     (9,190)      (10,891)
  other financial liabilities             1,188            42           422              4         available-for-sale financial assets (current)                   (601)          (524)
 derivative                                                                                        total liquidity                                               (9,790)      (11,415)
 financial liabilities                      377          147            224            39           net debt (total debt less total liquidity)                  10,663         9,292
 irrevocable loan
 commitments                              2,354          224            303            69


                                                                                                 siemens’ capital resources consist of a variety of short- and
                                                                                                 long-term financial instruments including, but not limited to,
the risk implied from the values shown in the table above re-                                    loans from financial institutions, commercial paper, notes and
flects the one-sided scenario of cash outflows only. obliga-                                     bonds as well as credit facilities. in addition to cash and cash
tions under finance leases, trade payables and other financial                                   equivalents and to available-for-sale financial assets, liquid re-
liabilities mainly originate from the financing of assets used in                                sources consist of future cash flows from operating activities.
siemens’ ongoing operations such as property, plant, equip-
ment and investments in working capital – e.g. inventories                                       siemens’ capital requirements include, among others, sched-
and trade receivables. these assets are considered in the com-                                   uled debt service, regular capital spending, ongoing cash re-
pany ’s overall liquidity risk management. a considerable por-                                   quirements from operating and sfs financing activities, in-
tion of the irrevocable loan commitments result from as-                                         cluding cash outflows related to the announced growth strate-
set-based lending transactions meaning that the respective                                       gy of sfs, dividend payments, pension plan funding, portfolio
loans can only be drawn after sufficient collateral has been                                     activities, and cash outflows in connection with “siemens
provided by the borrower. to monitor existing financial assets                                   2014,” a company-wide program aimed at improving profitabil-
and liabilities as well as to enable an effective controlling of                                 ity in the sectors.
future risks, siemens has established a comprehensive risk
­reporting covering its worldwide business units.                                                credit risk
                                                                                                 credit risk is defined as an unexpected loss in cash and earn-
the balanced view of liquidity and financial indebtedness is                                     ings if the customer is unable to pay its obligations in due time
stated in the calculation of the net debt. net debt results from                                 or if the value of collateral declines.
total debt less total liquidity. total debt comprises line item
short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt as                                      siemens provides its customers with various forms of direct
well as line item long-term debt, as stated on the consolidated                                  and indirect financing particularly in connection with large
statements of financial position. total debt comprises items                                     projects. siemens finances a large number of smaller customer
notes and bonds, loans from banks, obligations under finance                                     orders, for example the leasing of medical equipment, in part
leases and other financial indebtedness such as commercial                                       through sfs. sfs is also exposed to credit risk by financing
paper. total liquidity refers to the liquid financial assets, which                              third-party equipment or by taking direct or indirect participa-




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                          321
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      tions in financings, such as syndicated loans. in part, siemens             along with the inherent credit risk to the siemens credit ware-
      takes a security interest in the assets siemens finances or                 house, but remain responsible for servicing activities such as
      siemens receives additional collateral. siemens may incur                   collections and receivables management. the siemens credit
      losses if the credit quality of its customers deteriorates or if            warehouse actively identifies, quantifies and manages the
      they default on their payment obligations to siemens, such as               credit risk in its portfolio, such as by selling or hedging expo-
      a consequence of a financial or political crisis and a global               sure to specific customers, countries and industries. in addi-
      downturn.                                                                   tion to an increased transparency with regard to credit risk, the
                                                                                  siemens credit warehouse may provide siemens with an addi-
      the effective monitoring and controlling of credit risk is a core           tional source of liquidity and strengthens siemens’ funding
      competency of our risk management system. siemens has im-                   flexibility.
      plemented a binding credit policy for all entities. hence, credit
      evaluations and ratings are performed for all customers with an             the maximum exposure to credit risk of financial assets, with-
      exposure or requiring credit beyond centrally defined limits.               out taking account of any collateral, is represented by their
                                                                                  carrying amount. as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 the collat-
      customer ratings, analyzed and defined by sfs, and individual                 eral for financial instruments classified as financial assets
      customer limits are based on generally accepted rating meth-                  measured at fair value in the form of netting agreements for
      odologies, with the input consisting of information obtained                derivatives in the event of insolvency of the respective coun-
      from the customer, external rating agencies, data service pro-              terparty amounted to €570 million and €716 million, respec-
      viders and siemens’ customer default experiences. ratings                   tively. as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 the collateral held for
      and credit limits are carefully considered in determining the               financial instruments classified as receivables from finance
      conditions under which direct or indirect financing will be of-             leases amounted to €1,902 million and €1,685 million, respec-
      fered to customers. as part of the process, internal risk assess-           tively, mainly in the form of the leased equipment. as of sep-
      ment specialists determine and continuously update ratings                  tember 30, 2013 and 2012 the collateral held for financial in-
      and credit limits for siemens’ public and private customers,                struments classified as financial assets measured at cost or
      both in the euro zone and around the world. for public cus-                 amortized cost amounted to €2,141 million and €1,902 million,
      tomers our policy provides that the rating applied to individual            respectively. the collateral mainly consisted of property, plant
      customers cannot be better than the weakest of the sovereign                and equipment and letters of credit. in addition, for this class
      ratings provided by moody ’s, s & p’s and fitch for the respective          siemens holds collateral in the form of securities related to
      country.                                                                    ­reverse repurchase agreements that can be sold or re-pledged
                                                                                   in absence of default by the owner of the collateral. as of
      credit risk is recorded and monitored on an ongoing basis ap-                ­september 30, 2013 and 2012 the fair value of the collateral
      plying different systems and processes dependent on the un-                   held amounted to €103 million and €500 million, respectively.
      derlying product. central systems are used for ongoing moni-                  in fiscal 2013 and 2012 siemens has not exercised the right
      toring of counterparty risk. in addition, sfs uses own systems                to sell or re-pledge the collateral. credit risks arising from irre-
      for its financing activities. there are also a number of decen-               vocable loan commitments are equal to the expected future
      tralized tools used for management of individual credit risks                 pay-offs resulting from these commitments. as of september
      within the operating units. a central it application processes                30, 2013 and 2012 the collateral held for these commitments
      data from the operating units together with rating and default                amounted to €1,320 million and €1,178 million, respectively,
      information and calculates an estimate which may be used as                   mainly in the form of inventories and receivables. credit risks
      a basis for individual bad debt provisions. in addition to this               arising from credit guarantees are described in        note 28 com-

      automated process, qualitative information is considered, in                  mitments and contingencies . there were no significant concen-

      particular to incorporate the latest developments.                          trations of credit risk as of september 30, 2013 and 2012.

      to increase transparency with regard to credit risk corporate               concerning trade receivables and other receivables, as well as
      treasury has established the siemens credit warehouse to                    loans or receivables included in line item other financial as-
      which numerous operating units from the siemens group reg-                  sets that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no indi-
      ularly transfer business partner data as a basis for a centralized          cations as of september 30, 2013, that defaults in payment ob-
      rating process. in addition, numerous operating units transfer              ligations will occur, which lead to a decrease in the net assets
      their trade receivables with a remaining term up to one year                of siemens. overdue financial instruments are generally im-




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.   corporate ­governance                     155   c.   combined ­management report
322

paired on a portfolio basis in order to reflect losses incurred                                 since fiscal 2012, the allocation of stock awards as a share-
within the respective portfolios. when substantial expected                                     based payment has been increasingly tied to corporate perfor-
payment delays become evident, overdue financial instru-                                        mance criteria. the target attainment for the performance
ments are assessed individually for additional impairment and                                  ­criteria ranges between 0% and 200%.
are further allowed for as appropriate.
                                                                                               half of the annual target amount for stock awards is based on
                                                                                               the average of earnings per share (eps, basic) of the past three
note 33       share-based payment                                                              fiscal years. the target attainment determines the number of
                                                                                               stock awards upon allocation. settlement of these stock
share-based payment awards at siemens, including bonus                                         awards is in shares following the four-year restriction period.
awards, stock awards, the share matching program and its
underlying plans as well as the jubilee share program are pre-                                 the other half of the annual target amount for stock awards is
dominately designed as equity-settled plans and to a limited                                   based on the share price performance of siemens shares rela-
extent as cash-settled plans. if participating siemens compa-                                  tive to the share price performance of five important siemens
nies cease to be part of the siemens group, they are no longer                                 competitors (abb, general electric, philips, rockwell, schneider)
eligible to participate in future share-based payment awards at                                during the four-year restriction period. the target attainment
siemens. in such cases the participating siemens companies                                     is determined during the four-year restriction period for the
have the right to settle the share-based payment awards pre-                                   stock awards and accordingly, determines the number of
maturely. total pretax expense for share-based payment recog-                                  siemens shares ultimately transferred following the restriction
nized in line item income from continuing operations amount-                                   period. if the target attainment is up to 100%, settlement is in
ed to €185 million and €155 million for the years ended sep-                                   shares. if the target attainment exceeds 100% (up to 200%) an
tember 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and refers primarily to                                additional cash payment corresponding to the outperformance
equity-settled awards, including the company ’s base share                                     results.
program.
                                                                                               additionally one portion of the variable compensation compo-
stock awards                                                                                   nent (bonus) for members of the managing board is granted in
the company grants stock awards as a means for providing                                       the form of non-forfeitable awards of siemens stock (bonus
share-based compensation to members of the managing                                            awards).
board, members of the senior management of siemens ag and
its domestic and foreign subsidiaries and other eligible em-                                   commitments to members
ployees. stock awards are subject to a restriction period of                                   of the managing board
about four years and entitle the beneficiary to siemens shares                                 in fiscal 2013 and 2012, agreements were entered into which
without payment of consideration following the restriction pe-                                 entitle members of the managing board to stock awards con-
riod. stock awards granted in fiscal 2008 to 2011 were general-                                tingent upon attaining an eps-based target. the fair value of
ly subject to a restriction period of three years. in principle,                               these entitlements amounting to €6 million in each of the
stock awards forfeit if the beneficiary ’s employment with the                                 ­fiscal years 2013 and 2012, was determined by calculating the
company terminates prior to the expiration of the restriction                                   present value of the target amount.
period. during the restriction period, beneficiaries are not en-
titled to dividends. stock awards may not be transferred, sold,                                in fiscal 2013 and 2012, agreements were entered into which
pledged or otherwise encumbered. settlement of stock awards                                    entitle members of the managing board to stock awards con-
may occur in newly issued shares of capital stock of                                           tingent upon attaining a prospective performance-based target
siemens ag, treasury shares or in cash. the settlement meth-                                   of siemens stock relative to five competitors. the fair value of
od will be determined by the managing board and the supervi-                                    these entitlements amounting to €7 million in each of the fis-
sory board. each fiscal year, the company decides whether or                                    cal years 2013 and 2012, was calculated by applying a valuation
not to grant stock awards. the supervisory board decides                                        model. inputs to that model include an expected weighted
about the number of stock awards to the managing board and                                     ­volatility of siemens shares of 24% in fiscal 2013 and 27% in
the managing board decides about the number of stock awards                                     fiscal 2012 and a market price of €78.94 in fiscal 2013 and
to members of the senior management and other eligible em-                                      €73.94 in fiscal 2012 per siemens share. expected volatility was
ployees.                                                                                        determined by reference to historic volatilities in fiscal 2013




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                   323
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      and by reference to implied volatilities in fiscal 2012. the mod-          siemens share. expected volatility was determined by refer-
      el applies a risk-free interest rate of up to 0.8% in fiscal 2013          ence to historic volatilities in fiscal 2013 and by reference to
      and up to 1.7% in fiscal 2012 and an expected dividend yield of            implied volatilities in fiscal 2012. the model applies a risk-free
      3.8% in fiscal 2013 and 4.1% in fiscal 2012. assumptions con-              interest rate of up to 0.6% in fiscal 2013 and up to 1.8% in fiscal
      cerning share price correlations were determined by reference              2012 and an expected dividend yield of 3.76% in fiscal 2013 and
      to historic correlations.                                                  3.91% in fiscal 2012. assumptions concerning share price cor-
                                                                                 relations were determined by reference to historic correlations.
      compensation expense related to stock awards is generally                  compensation expense related to these stock awards is recog-
      recognized over five years until they vest, including a restric-           nized over four years until they vest.
      tion period of four years.
                                                                                 the following table shows the changes in the stock awards
      in fiscal 2013 and 2012, agreements were entered into which                held by members of the senior management and other eligible
      entitle members of the managing board to bonus awards con-                 employees:
      tingent upon the target attainment. the fair value of these
      ­
      entitlements amounting to €5 million in each fiscal year
      ­reported, was determined by calculating the present value of                                                                               year ended september 30,
       the target amount. compensation expense related to bonus                                                                                   2013                    2012

       awards is generally recognized over the vesting period of one                                                                           awards                  awards

       year. beneficiaries will receive one siemens share without                     non-vested, beginning of period                     4,217,588              3,857,315
       ­payment of consideration for each bonus award, following an                   granted                                             2,158,079              2,028,554
        additional waiting period of four years.                                      vested and transferred                             (1,073,355)            (1,531,944)
                                                                                      forfeited/settled                                    (425,857)1              (136,337)1

      the remuneration system of the managing board and the                           non-vested, end of period                           4,876,455              4,217,588

      changes in the stock awards held by managing board mem-
                                                                                           1 consists of 101,192 and 111,776 forfeited and 324,665 and 24,561 settled awards,
      bers are explained in detail in the compensation report within                          respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 2012.
      the corporate governance report.

      commitments to members of the senior                                       share matching program
      ­management and other eligible employees                                   and its underlying plans
      in fiscal 2013 and 2012, 1,308,171 and 1,080,609 stock awards              1. share matching plan
      were granted to members of the senior management and                       in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the company issued a new tranche un-
      ­other eligible employees contingent upon attaining an eps-                der the share matching plan. senior managers of siemens ag
       based target. the fair value of these stock awards amounts to             and participating siemens companies may invest a specified
       €85 million and €62 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and             percentage of their compensation in siemens shares. within a
       2012 and corresponds to the target amount representing the                predetermined period in the first quarter of each fiscal year,
       eps target attainment.                                                    plan participants decide on their investment amount for which
                                                                                 investment shares are purchased. the shares are purchased at
      in fiscal 2013 and 2012, 849,908 and 947,945 stock awards were             the market price at a predetermined date in the second quar-
      granted to members of the senior management and other eli-                 ter. plan participants receive the right to one siemens share
      gible employees contingent upon attaining a prospective per-               without payment of consideration (matching share) for every
      formance-based target of the siemens stock relative to five                three investment shares continuously held over a period of
      competitors. the fair value of these stock awards amounting                three years (vesting period) provided the plan participant has
      to €53 million and €58 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and           been continuously employed by siemens ag or another
      2012, of which €41 million and €46 million relate to equity in-            siemens company until the end of the vesting period. during
      struments, was calculated by applying a valuation model. in                the vesting period, matching shares are not entitled to divi-
      fiscal 2013 and 2012, inputs to that model include an expected             dends. the right to receive matching shares forfeits if the un-
      weighted volatility of siemens shares of 24.32% and 25.33%,                derlying investment shares are transferred, sold, pledged or
      respectively, and a market price of €79.70 and €74.14 per                  otherwise encumbered. matching shares may be settled in




      92   a.   to our shareholders                117   b.   corporate ­governance                               155    c.    combined ­management report
324

newly issued shares of capital stock of siemens ag, treasury                                   4. resulting matching shares
shares or in cash. the settlement method will be determined
by the managing board. each fiscal year, the managing board
decides whether or not to issue a new tranche under the share                                                                                            year ended september 30,
matching plan.                                                                                                                                           2013               2012
                                                                                                                                             entitlements to      entitlements to
                                                                                                                                            matching shares      matching shares
2. monthly investment plan                                                                       outstanding, beginning of period                1,545,582           1,977,091
in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the company issued a new tranche un-
                                                                                                 granted                                           713,245             706,354
der the monthly investment plan that is a further component                                      vested and transferred                           (351,548)         (1,037,292)
of the share matching plan and which is available for employ-                                    forfeited                                        (140,307)             (57,596)
ees – other than senior managers – of siemens ag and partic-                                     settled                                            (33,475)            (42,975)
ipating siemens companies. plan participants may invest a                                        outstanding, end of period                      1,733,497           1,545,582
specified percentage of their compensation in siemens shares
on a monthly basis over a period of twelve months. the shares
are purchased at market price at a predetermined date once a
month. the managing board of the company will decide an-                                       fair value was determined as the market price of siemens
nually, whether shares acquired under the monthly invest-                                      shares less the present value of expected dividends during the
ment plan (investment shares) may be transferred to the                                        vesting period as matching shares do not carry dividend rights
share matching plan the following year. if the managing                                        during the vesting period. non-vesting conditions, i.e. the
board decides that shares acquired under the monthly invest-                                   condition neither to transfer, sell, pledge nor otherwise en-
ment plan are transferred to the share matching plan, plan                                     cumber the underlying shares, were considered in determin-
participants will receive the right to matching shares under                                   ing the fair value. in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the weighted aver-
the same conditions applying to the share matching plan de-                                    age grant-date fair value of the resulting matching shares is
scribed above. each fiscal year the managing board decides,                                    €57.77 and €50.35 per share respectively, based on the number
whether or not to issue a new tranche under the monthly in-                                    of instruments granted.
vestment plan.
                                                                                               jubilee share program
the managing board decided that shares acquired under the                                      under the jubilee share program, eligible employees of
tranches issued in fiscal 2012 and 2011 are transferred to the                                 siemens ag and participating domestic siemens companies re-
share matching plan as of february 2013 and february 2012,                                     ceive jubilee shares after having been continuously employed
respectively.                                                                                  by the company for 25 and 40 years (vesting period), respec-
                                                                                               tively. generally, settlement of jubilee grants is in shares. jubi-
3. base share program                                                                          lee shares are measured at fair value considering biometrical
in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the company issued a new tranche un-                                  factors. the fair value is determined as the market price of
der the base share program. employees of siemens ag and                                        siemens shares at grant date less the present value of divi-
participating domestic siemens companies can invest a fixed                                    dends expected to be paid during the vesting period for which
amount of their compensation into siemens shares, sponsored                                    the employees are not entitled to. the weighted average fair
by siemens with a tax beneficial allowance. the shares are                                     value of each jubilee share granted in fiscal 2013 for the 25th
bought at market price at a predetermined date in the second                                   and the 40th anniversary is €36.92 and €24.55, respectively,
quarter and grant the right to receive matching shares under                                   based on the number of shares granted. the weighted average
the same conditions applying to the share matching plan de-                                    fair value of each jubilee share granted adjusted by biometrical
scribed above. each fiscal year, the managing board decides                                    factors (considering fluctuation) is €18.24 and €9.99, respec-
whether or not to issue a new tranche under the base share                                     tively, in fiscal 2013. the weighted average fair value of each
program. the fair value of the base share program equals the                                   jubilee share granted in fiscal 2012 for the 25th and the 40th an-
amount of the tax beneficial allowance sponsored by siemens.                                   niversary is €39.45 and €29.88 respectively, based on the num-
in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the company incurred pretax expense                                   ber of shares granted. the weighted average fair value of each
from continuing operations of €31 million and €29 million, re-                                 jubilee share granted adjusted by biometrical factors (consider-
spectively.                                                                                    ing fluctuation) is €19.01 and €13.12 respectively, in fiscal 2012.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                    325
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      in fiscal 2013 and 2012, 0.29 million and 0.43 million jubilee                 the average number of employees in fiscal years 2013 and 2012
      shares were granted; 0.18 million and 0.16 million were trans-                 was 394.9 thousand and 408.5 thousand, respectively (based
      ferred, 0.12 million and 0.48 million forfeited, resulting in an               on continuing and discontinued operations). thereof, in fiscal
      outstanding balance of 4.68 million and 4.69 million jubilee                   2013 and 2012, 248.3 thousand and 255.6 thousand employees
      shares as of september 30, 2013 and 2012. considering biomet-                  were engaged in manufacturing and services, 78.2 thousand
      rical factors, 3.28 million and 3.29 million jubilee shares are                and 83.2 thousand employees were engaged in sales and mar-
      expected to vest as of september 30, 2013 and 2012.                            keting, 31.8 thousand and 32.4 thousand employees were in
                                                                                     research and development and 36.6 thousand and 37.3 thou-
                                                                                     sand employees were in administration and general services in
      note 34       personnel costs                                                  fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively.



                                                    year ended september 30,         note 35          earnings per share
       (in millions of €)                                  2013           2012
       wages and salaries                             21,874          20,633
       statutory social welfare contributions and                                                                                                  year ended september 30,
       expenses for optional support payments          3,389            3,354                                                                            2013         2012
                                                                                          (shares in thousands, earnings per share in €)
       expenses relating to post-employment
                                                                                          income from continuing operations                            4,212        4,642
       benefits                                        1,148              886
                                                                                          less: portion attributable
                                                      26,411          24,873
                                                                                          to non-controlling interest                                    120          132
                                                                                          income from continuing operations
                                                                                          attributable to shareholders of siemens ag                   4,093        4,510
                                                                                          weighted average shares
                                                                                          outstanding – basic                                       843,819      876,053
      item expenses relating to post-employment benefits includes                         effect of share-based payment                                8,433        8,259
      service costs for the period. interest from post-employment                         weighted average shares
      benefits is included in line items interest income (expenses).                      outstanding – diluted                                     852,252      884,311
                                                                                          basic earnings per share
                                                                                          (from continuing operations)                                 €4.85        €5.15
      wages and salaries, statutory social welfare contributions and
                                                                                          diluted earnings per share
      expenses for optional support payments and expenses relating                        (from continuing operations)                                 €4.80        €5.10
      to post-employment benefits for continuing and discontinued
      operations amounts to €28,163 million and €27,009 million in
      fiscal 2013 and 2012.
                                                                                     share-based payment plans are dilutive at the income from
      the average number of employees in fiscal years 2013 and 2012                  continuing operations level and so, in accordance with ias 33,
      was 362.4 thousand and 362.9 thousand, respectively (based                     earnings per share, have been treated as dilutive for the pur-
      on continuing operations). part-time employees are included                    pose of diluted earnings per share. the diluted loss per share
      on a proportionate basis. the employees were engaged in the                    from discontinued operations is lower than basic loss per
      following activities:                                                          share from discontinued operations because of the effect of
                                                                                     losses on discontinued operations.

                                                    year ended september 30,         the dilutive earnings per share computation in fiscal 2013
       (in thousands)                                      2013           2012       and 2012 does not contain 21,674 thousand shares relating to
       manufacturing and services                      224.2            221.3        warrants issued with bonds. the inclusion of those shares
       sales and marketing                                 73.6           76.9       would have been antidilutive in the years presented. in the
       research and development                            29.8           29.5       future, the warrants could potentially dilute basic earnings
       administration and general services                 34.9           35.2       per share.
                                                       362.4            362.9




      92   a.    to our shareholders                 117   b.     corporate ­governance                               155   c.    combined ­management report
326

note 36       segment information                                                              financial services (sfs) – provides a variety of financial ser-
                                                                                               vices and products to other siemens units and their customers
segment information is presented for continuing operations.                                    and to third parties. sfs has three strategic pillars: supporting
                                                                                               siemens units with finance solutions for their customers,
description of reportable segments                                                             managing financial risks of siemens and offering third-party
the four sectors comprise manufacturing, industrial and com-                                   finance services and products.
mercial goods, solutions and services in areas more or less re-
lated to siemens’ origins in the electrical business field.                                    reconciliation
                                                                                               to consolidated financial statements
energy – offers a wide spectrum of products, solutions and                                     reconciliation to consolidated financial statements contains
services for generating and transmitting power, and for ex-                                    businesses and items not directly related to siemens’ report-
tracting, converting and transporting oil and gas. it primarily                                able segments:
addresses the needs of energy providers, but also serves in-
dustrial companies, particularly in the oil and gas industry.                                  centrally managed portfolio activities – generally includes
                                                                                               activities intended for divestment or closure as well as activi-
healthcare – offers customers a comprehensive portfolio of                                     ties remaining from divestments and discontinued operations
medical solutions across the treatment chain – ranging from                                    such as from siemens it solutions and services and from the
medical imaging to in-vitro diagnostics to interventional sys-                                 former com business.
tems and clinical information technology systems – all from a
single source. in addition, the sector provides technical main-                                siemens real estate (sre) – owns and manages the
tenance, professional and consulting services, and, together                                   siemens real estate portfolio and offers a range of services en-
with financial services (sfs), financing to assist customers in                                compassing real estate development, real estate disposal and
purchasing the sector’s products.                                                              asset management, as well as lease and services management.

industry – offers a broad spectrum of products, services and                                   corporate items and pensions – includes corporate charges
solutions that help customers use resources and energy more                                    such as personnel costs for corporate headquarters, corporate
efficiently, improve productivity, and increase flexibility. the                               projects and non-operating investments or results of corpo-
sector’s integrated technologies and holistic solutions primar­                                rate-related derivative activities and costs for carve out activi-
ily address industrial customers, particularly those in the                                    ties managed by corporate, which are charged to the respec-
­
process and manufacturing industries. the portfolio spans                                      tive segment when the disposal gain or loss is realized or
­industry automation, industrial software, drive products and                                  when the activities are classified as discontinued operations.
services, system integration, and solutions for industrial plant                               pensions includes the company ’s pension related income (ex-
businesses.                                                                                    pense) not allocated to the segments, sre or centrally man-
                                                                                               aged portfolio activities.
infrastructure & cities – offers a wide range of technologies
for increasing the sustainability of metropolitan centers and                                  eliminations, corporate treasury and other reconciling
urban infrastructures worldwide, such as integrated mobility                                   items – comprise consolidation of transactions within the
solutions, building and security systems, power distribution                                   ­segments, certain reconciliation and reclassification items and
equipment, smart grid applications and low and medium-volt-                                       the activities of the company ’s corporate treasury. it also
age products.                                                                                   ­includes interest income and expense, such as, for example,
                                                                                                  interest not allocated to segments or centrally managed
equity investments – comprises equity stakes held by                                             ­portfolio activities (referred to as financing interest), interest
siemens that are either accounted for by the equity method, at                                    related to corporate treasury activities or resulting consolida-
cost or as current available-for-sale financial assets and are not                                tion and reconciliation effects on interest.
allocated to a sector, sfs, centrally managed portfolio activi-
ties, sre, corporate items or corporate treasury for strategic
reasons.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                       327
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      measurement – segments                                                      the effect of certain litigation and compliance issues is exclud-
       accounting policies for segment information are generally the              ed from profit, if such items are not indicative of the sectors’
       same as those used for siemens, described in      note 2 summary           and equity investments’ performance, since their related re-
       of significant accounting policies . lease transactions, however,          sults of operations may be distorted by the amount and the ir-
      are classified as operating leases for internal and segment                 regular nature of such events. this may also be the case for
      ­reporting purposes. intersegment transactions are based on                 items that refer to more than one reportable segment, sre and
       market prices.                                                             (or) centrally managed portfolio activities or have a corporate
                                                                                  or central character.
      profit of the sectors and of equity investments:
      siemens’ managing board is responsible for assessing the per-               central infrastructure costs are primarily allocated to the sec-
      formance of the segments. the company ’s profitability measure              tors. the total amount to be allocated is determined at the be-
      of the sectors and equity investments is earnings before financ-            ginning of the fiscal year and is charged in installments in all
      ing interest, certain pension costs, and income taxes as deter-             four quarters.
      mined by the chief operating decision maker (profit). profit ex-
      cludes various categories of items, not allocated to the sectors            profit of equity investments mainly comprises income (loss)
      and equity investments, which management does not regard as                 from investments presented in equity investments, such as
      indicative of their performance. profit represents a performance            the share in the earnings of associates or dividends from in-
      measure focused on operational success excluding the effects                vestments not accounted for under the equity method, income
      of capital market financing issues; for financing issues regard-            (loss) from the sale of interests in investments, impairment of
      ing equity investments see paragraph below. the major catego-               investments and reversals of impairments. it also includes in-
      ries of items excluded from profit are presented below.                     terest and impairments as well as reversals of impairments on
                                                                                  long-term loans granted to investments reported in equity in-
      financing interest, excluded from profit, is any interest income            vestments.
      or expense other than interest income related to receivables
      from customers, from cash allocated to the sectors and equity               profit of the segment sfs:
      investments and interest expenses on payables to suppliers.                 profit of the segment sfs is income before income taxes.
      borrowing costs capitalized as part of qualifying long-term                 in contrast to performance measurement principles applied
      projects are not part of financing interest. financing interest is          to the sectors and equity investments interest income and
      excluded from profit because decision-making regarding fi-                  expenses is an important source of revenue and expense
      nancing is typically made at the corporate level. equity invest-            of sfs.
      ments include interest and impairments as well as reversals of
      impairments on long-term loans granted to investments re-                   asset measurement principles:
      ported in equity investments.                                               management determined assets as a measure to assess capital
                                                                                  intensity of the sectors and equity investments (net capital
      similarly, decision-making regarding essential pension items is             employed). its definition corresponds to the profit measure. it
      done centrally. accordingly, profit primarily includes amounts              is based on total assets of the consolidated statements of
      related to service cost of pension plans only, while all other              ­
                                                                                  financial position, primarily excluding intragroup financing
      regularly recurring pension related costs – including charges               receivables, intragroup investments and tax related assets,
                                                                                  ­
      for the german pension insurance association and plan admin-                since the corresponding positions are excluded from profit. a
      istration costs – are included in line item corporate items and             division of infrastructure & cities includes the project-specific
      pensions. curtailments are a partial payback with regard to                 intercompany financing of a long-term project. the remaining
      past service cost that affect segment profit.                               assets are reduced by non-interest-bearing liabilities other
                                                                                  than tax related liabilities, e.g. trade payables, to derive assets.
      furthermore, income taxes are excluded from profit since in-                equity investments may include certain shareholder loans
      come tax is subject to legal structures, which typically do not             granted to investments reported in equity investments. in con-
      correspond to the structure of the segments.                                trast, assets of sfs is total assets.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                 117   b.   corporate ­governance                     155   c.   combined ­management report
328

orders:                                                                                        reconciliation to siemens’
orders are determined principally as estimated revenue of ac-                                  consolidated financial statements
cepted purchase orders and order value changes and adjust-                                     the following table reconciles total assets of the sectors,
ments, excluding letters of intent. new orders are supplemen-                                  ­equity investments and sfs to total assets of siemens’ con-
tary information, provided on a voluntary basis. it is not part of                              solidated statements of financial position:
the audited consolidated financial statements.

free cash flow definition:                                                                                                                                                       september 30,
segment information discloses free cash flow and additions to                                    (in millions of €)                                                       2013              2012

property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. free cash                                   assets of sectors                                                      24,886         23,364
flow of the sectors and equity investments constitutes cash                                      assets of equity investments                                            1,767           2,715
flows from operating activities less additions to intangible as-                                 assets of sfs                                                          18,661         17,405
sets and property, plant and equipment. it excludes financing                                    total segment assets                                                   45,314         43,484
interest, except for cases where interest on qualifying assets is                                reconciliation:
capitalized or classified as contract costs and it also excludes                                 assets centrally managed portfolio activities                            (267)            (448)
non-cash income tax as well as certain other payments and                                        assets sre                                                              4,747           5,018
proceeds. free cash flow of equity investments includes inter-                                   assets of corporate items and pensions 1                            (11,252)         (11,693)
est from shareholder loans granted to investments reported in                                    eliminations, corporate treasury and other
                                                                                                 reconciling items of segment information:
equity investments. pension curtailments are a partial payback
                                                                                                  asset-based adjustments:
with regard to past service cost that affect segment free cash
                                                                                                   intragroup financing
flow. free cash flow of sfs, a financial services business, in-                                     receivables and investments                                         40,850         22,046
cludes related financing interest payments and proceeds; in-                                       tax-related assets                                                    3,924           4,453
come tax payments and proceeds of sfs are excluded.                                               liability-based adjustments:
                                                                                                   post-employment benefits                                             9,265           9,801
amortization, depreciation and impairments:                                                        liabilities                                                          39,336         42,072
amortization, depreciation and impairments presented in                                           eliminations, corporate treasury,
­segment information includes depreciation and impairments                                         other items 2                                                     (29,981)           (6,482)
 of property, plant and equipment, net of reversals of impair-                                   total eliminations, corporate treasury
                                                                                                     ­ ther reconciling items of
                                                                                                 and o
 ments as well as amortization and impairments of intangible                                     segment information 1                                                  63,393         71,889
 assets, net of reversals of impairment. goodwill impairment is                                  total assets in siemens’ consolidated
 excluded.                                                                                       statements of financial position                                   101,936           108,251


measurement –                                                                                           1 in accordance with siemens’ segment measurement principles, effects from
                                                                                                           adopting ias 19r retrospectively increased assets of line item corporate items
centrally managed portfolio activities and sre:                                                            and pension by €147 million and decreased line item total eliminations, corporate
                                                                                                           treasury and other reconciling items by €176 million compared to previously
centrally managed portfolio activities follow the measure-
                                                                                                           reported amounts as of september 30, 2012.
ment principles of the sectors. sre applies the measurement                                            2 includes assets and liabilities reclassified in connection with discontinued operations.
principles of sfs; total assets of sre nets certain intercom­
pany fi­ nance receivables with certain intercompany finance
liabilities.                                                                                   in fiscal years 2013 and 2012, corporate items and pensions in
                                                                                               the column profit includes €(419) million and €(261) million re-
                                                                                               lated to corporate items, as well as €(420) million and €(407)
                                                                                               million related to pensions, respectively. remaining costs in
                                                                                               connection with siemens it solutions and services charged to
                                                                                               corporate items in fiscal 2013 and 2012 amount to €58 million
                                                                                               and €118 million. effects from asset retirement obligations for
                                                                                               environmental clean-up costs impacted corporate items with
                                                                                               €50 million and €19 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respective-
                                                                                               ly. legal and regulatory matters contributed positive effects to
                                                                                               corporate items in fiscal 2012.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                  357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                     329
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      additional segment information                                                                  note 38           related party transactions
      for the years ended september 30, 2013 and 2012, profit of sfs
      includes interest income of €873 million and €778 million,                                      joint ventures and associates
      ­respectively and interest expenses of €317 million and €316                                    siemens has relationships with many joint ventures and asso-
       ­million, respectively.                                                                        ciates in the ordinary course of business whereby siemens
                                                                                                      buys and sells a wide variety of products and services general-
                                                                                                      ly on arm’s length terms. for information regarding our sub-
      note 37       information about geographies                                                     sidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies in fiscal
                                                                                                      2013 see      note 18 investments accounted for using the equit y

                                                                                                      method and       note 42 list of subsidiaries and associated com-

                                                      revenue by                 revenue by           panies pursuant to section 313 para. 2 of the german commercial
                                             location of customer     location of companies
                                                                                                      code . information regarding our subsidiaries, joint ventures
                                                      year ended                     year ended
                                                   september 30,                  september 30,       and associated companies for fiscal 2012 are presented in the
       (in millions of €)                       2013        2012            2013           2012       list of subsidiaries and associated companies published sepa-
       europe, c.i.s.,1 africa,                                                                       rately in the german electronic federal gazette (elektronischer
       middle east                          39,874      39,947            44,337       44,957         bundesanzeiger).
       americas                             20,916      22,078            20,828       21,793
       asia, australia                      15,092      15,370            10,717       10,645         sales of goods and services and other income from transac-
       siemens                              75,882      77,395            75,882       77,395         tions with joint ventures and associates as well as purchase of
           thereof germany                  10,750      11,049            19,115       19,909
                                                                                                      goods and services and other expenses from transactions with
           thereof foreign countries        65,132      66,346            56,766       57,487
                                                                                                      joint ventures and associates are as follows:
         thereof u.s                        14,179      15,946        16,056           17,062


              1 commonwealth of independent states.
                                                                                                                                sales of goods and services        purchases of goods and
                                                                                                                                          and other income    services and other expenses
                                                                                                                                                year ended                     year ended
                                                                                                                                             september 30,                  september 30,
                                                                           non-current assets              (in millions of €)         2013            2012          2013             2012
                                                                                  september 30,            joint ventures             336             432             12               16
       (in millions of €)                                                  2013            2012
                                                                                                           associates               1,008             528           214              228
       europe, c.i.s.,1 africa, middle east                          17,404            16,009
                                                                                                                                    1,345             959           226              244
       americas                                                      12,598            13,723
       asia, australia                                                2,752              2,695
       siemens                                                       32,755            32,427
           thereof germany                                            6,510              6,446
                                                                                                      receivables from joint ventures and associates and liabilities
           thereof u.s.                                              11,205            12,133
                                                                                                      to joint ventures and associates are as follows:

              1 commonwealth of independent states.


                                                                                                                                               receivables                      liabilities
      non-current assets consist of property, plant and equipment,                                                                           september 30,                  september 30,

      goodwill and other intangible assets.                                                                (in millions of €)         2013            2012          2013             2012
                                                                                                           joint ventures               54             49             12               23
                                                                                                           associates                 222             145           121              241
                                                                                                                                      276             194           133              264




      92     a.   to our shareholders                               117    b.      corporate ­governance                          155   c.    combined ­management report
330

as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, loans given to joint ven-                                    related individuals
tures and associates amounted to €17 million and €60 million,                                   related individuals include the members of the managing
respectively. in the normal course of business the company                                      board and supervisory board.
regularly reviews loans and receivables associated with joint
ventures and associates. in fiscal 2013 and 2012, the review re-                                in fiscal 2013 and 2012 members of the managing board re-
sulted in net losses related to valuation allowances totaling                                   ceived cash compensation of €17.0 million and €17.4 million.
€27 million and net gains related to valuation allowances total-                                the fair value of stock-based compensation amounted to €17.6
ing €7 million, respectively. as of september 30, 2013 and 2012,                                million and €22.2 million for 213,394 and 345,382 stock
valuation allowances amounted to €42 million and €37 million,                                   awards, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and 2012. in fiscal 2013 and
respectively. in fiscal 2013, siemens increased its net invest-                                 2012 the company granted contributions under the bsav to
ment in en by €102 million. the carrying amount remains €0                                      members of the managing board totaling €6.4 million and €5.7
by applying the equity method. for further information see                                      million.
      note 7 income (loss) from investments accounted for using

the equit y method, net .                                                                       therefore in fiscal 2013 and 2012, compensation and benefits,
                                                                                                attributable to members of the managing board amounted to
as of september 30, 2013 and 2012, guarantees to joint ven-                                     €41.0 million and €45.3 million in total, respectively.
tures and associates amounted to €2,789 million and €4,769
million, respectively, including the herkules obligations of                                    in addition, in connection with termination of managing board
€1,890 million and €2,290 million, respectively. as of septem-                                  membership, compensatory payments amounting to €20.4
ber 30, 2012 the nsn obligations were included. for additional                                  million (gross) and one-time special contributions amounting
information regarding the herkules obligations as well as                                       to €3.1 million to the bsav were agreed. it was also agreed that
for information regarding guarantees in connection with the                                     these members of the managing board receive their long-term
contribution of the sen operations into en see          note 28                                 stock-based compensation for fiscal 2013 (41,554 stock
commitments and contingencies . as of september 30, 2013 and                                    awards), which will be settled in cash, and is included in the
2012, guarantees to joint ventures amounted to €431 million                                     above mentioned stock-based compensation amount. the
and €474 million, respectively. as of september 30, 2013 and                                    company has furthermore agreed to reimburse out-of-pocket
2012, the company had commitments to make capital contri-                                       expenses up to a maximum of €130,000 plus value-added tax.
butions of €187 million and €176 million to its joint ventures                                  the 175,382 stock awards that were granted in the past and for
and associates, therein €107 million and €113 million related to                                which the restriction period is still in effect, will be absolutely
joint ventures, respectively. for a loan raised by a joint ven-                                 maintained. the respective fair value of these stock awards at
ture, which is secured by a siemens guarantee, siemens grant-                                   grant date amounted to €11.5 million.
ed an additional collateral. as of september 30, 2013 and 2012
the outstanding amount totaled to €134 million and €139 mil-                                    in fiscal 2013 and 2012, expense related to share-based pay-
lion, respectively. as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 there                                     ment and to the share matching program amounted to €23.2
were loan commitments to joint ventures and associates                                          million (including the above mentioned stock awards in con-
amounting to €90 million and €144 million, respectively, there-                                 nection with the departure from members of the managing
in €90 million and €94 million, respectively related to joint                                   board) and €16.0 million, respectively. for additional informa-
ventures.                                                                                       tion regarding the share matching program see           note 33

                                                                                                share-based payment .

pension entities
for information regarding the funding of our pension plans re-                                  former members of the managing board and their surviving
fer to   note 23 post-employment benefits .                                                     dependents received emoluments within the meaning of sec-
                                                                                                tion 314 para. 1 no. 6 b of the german commercial code total-
                                                                                                ing €33.1 million (including €18.2 million in connection with
                                                                                                the above mentioned departure from a member of the manag-
                                                                                                ing board) and €15.8 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012.




253    d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                      331
254    d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255    d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256    d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257    d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      the defined benefit obligation (dbo) of all pension commit-              note 39principal accountant fees
      ments to former members of the managing board and their                  and ­services
      survivors as of september 30, 2013 and 2012 amounted to
      €192.5 million and €181.6 million. for additional information            fees related to professional services rendered by the company ’s
      see    note 23 post-employment benefits .                                principal accountant, ey, for fiscal 2013 and 2012 were as
                                                                               ­follows:
      compensation attributable to members of the supervisory
      board comprises in fiscal 2013 and 2012 of a base compensa-
      tion and additional compensation for committee work and                                                                        year ended september 30,
      amounted to €4.9 million and €4.8 million (including meeting                  (in millions of €)                                     2013         2012

      fees), respectively.                                                          type of fees
                                                                                    audit fees                                            45.6          44.2
      no loans and advances from the company are provided to                        audit-related fees                                    10.2          10.6
      members of the managing board and supervisory board.                          tax fees                                               0.1           0.4
                                                                                    all other services                                     0.4             –
      information regarding the remuneration of the members of                      total                                                 56.3          55.2
      the managing board and supervisory board is disclosed on
      an individual basis in the compensation report, which is
      part of the combined management report. the chapter
         b.4 compensation report is presented within the chapter               audit fees and audit-related fees consist of fees associated
         b. corporate governance .                                             with the services pre-approved by the audit committee de-
                                                                               scribed below. tax fees and all other services require specific
      in fiscal 2013 and 2012, no other major transactions took place          pre-approval by the audit committee. the tax fees primarily
      between the company and the other members of the manag-                  include fees for support services provided in connection with
      ing board and the supervisory board.                                     assistance for competent authority procedures according to
                                                                               ­article 25 of the oecd model tax convention regarding trans-
      some of our board members hold, or in the last year have held,            fer pricing issues as well as for tax compliance advice on tran-
      positions of significant responsibility with other entities.              sition services from acquisitions. all other services consist of
      we have relationships with almost all of these entities in the            advisory services provided by ey for a transitional period until
      ordinary course of our business whereby we buy and sell a                 the end of fiscal 2013 after they acquired one of siemens’
      wide variety of products and services on arm’s length terms.              it-suppliers in the area of supply chain management in june
      michael diekmann is the chairman of the board of manage-                  2013 and an attestation service not related to the financial
      ment of allianz se. our transactions with allianz group                   statements.
      are conducted on arm’s length basis and include insurance
      business and asset management.                                           in fiscal 2013, 50% of the total fees related to ernst & young
                                                                               gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, germany.




      92   a.   to our shareholders              117   b.   corporate ­governance                        155   c.   combined ­management report
332

audit committee pre-approval policies                                                          audit services
in accordance with german law, siemens’ independent auditor                                    >> annual audit of siemens’ consolidated financial state-
is appointed by the annual shareholders’ meeting based on a                                       ments and its internal control over financial reporting;
recommendation of the supervisory board. the audit commit-                                     >> quarterly review of siemens’ interim consolidated
tee of the supervisory board prepares the board’s recommen-                                       ­financial statements;
dation on the election of the company ’s independent auditor.                                  >> audit and review services that are required by statute or
subsequent to the auditor’s appointment, the audit commit-                                         regulation, including statutory audits of financial state-
tee engages the auditor and in its sole authority approves the                                     ments of siemens ag and of its subsidiaries under the
terms and scope of the audit and all audit engagement fees. in                                    rules of their respective countries;
addition, it monitors the auditor’s independence.                                              >> opening balance sheet audits in connection with
                                                                                                   ­acquisitions, including audits with regard to the allocation
in order to ensure the integrity of independent audits,                                             of ­purchase prices.
siemens’ audit committee has established a policy to approve
all audit and permissible audit-related services provided by our                               audit-related services
independent auditor prior to the auditor’s engagement. as part                                 >> voluntary local gaap audits;
of this approval process, the audit committee adopted pre-ap-                                  >> due diligence relating to actual or contemplated acquisitions
proval policies and procedures pursuant to which the audit                                        and carve-outs, including consultation in accounting
committee annually pre-approves certain types of services to                                      ­matters;
be performed by siemens’ independent auditor. under the pol-                                   >> post-closing audits;
icies, the company ’s independent auditor is not allowed to                                    >> carve-out audits and attestation services in the context
perform any non-audit services which either (1) may impair                                         of carve-outs;
the auditor’s independence under applicable german regula-                                     >> certification services required by regulation, law or
tions or the rules and regulations of the international ethics                                     ­contractual agreement;
standards board for accountants (iesba), the international                                     >> consultation concerning financial accounting and ­reporting
federation of accountants (ifac), the u.s. securities and ex-                                     standards based on the auditor’s knowledge of siemens-­
change commission (sec) or the public company accounting                                          specific circumstances, including:
oversight board (pcaob) or (2) which can be more effectively                                             >> accounting advice relating to actual or contemplated
or economically provided by another provider, even if permis-                                               ­transactions or events;
sible under the relevant independence rules. furthermore, the                                            >> advice on the introduction and review of new or revised
audit committee has limited the sum total of all fees that may                                               ­accounting guidelines and requirements;
be incurred during a fiscal year for non-audit services, includ-                                         >> training regarding accounting-related topics;
ing audit-related services, tax services and other services, to                                >> comfort letters;
30% of the audit fees agreed upon for the respective fiscal year.                              >> employee benefit plan audits;
                                                                                               >> isae 3402 / ssae 16 reports;
the audit committee has generally pre-approved the perfor-                                     >> attestation services subject to regulatory requirements,
mance by ey of audit and audit-related services, including                                          ­including regulatory advice;
among others the following:                                                                    >> attestation and audits in connection with the european
                                                                                                     community directive on waste electrical and electronic
                                                                                                     equipment;
                                                                                               >> attestation of compliance with provisions or calculations
                                                                                                     ­required by agreements;
                                                                                               >> attest services in accordance with applicable standards,
                                                                                                      ­other than audit services required by statute or other
                                                                                                       ­regulation.




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                            357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                      333
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      services that are not generally pre-approved as audit or au-        note 41   subsequent events
      dit-related services require specific pre-approval by the audit
      committee. an approval may not be granted if the service falls      after the end of fiscal 2013, siemens signed an agreement to
      into a category of services not permitted by current law or if it   sell its business for treating and processing municipal and in-
      is inconsistent with ensuring the auditor’s independence, as        dustrial water and wastewater that are bundled in the siemens
      expressed in the four principles promulgated by the u.s. secu-      water technologies business unit, as well as the related ser-
      rities and exchange commission: (1) an auditor may not act as       vice activities, to funds managed by american european asso-
      management or an employee of the audit client; (2) an auditor       ciates investors lp (aea), u.s., for a purchase price of €640
      may not audit his or her own work; (3) an auditor may not           million. closing of the transaction is subject to approval by
      serve in an advocacy role for his or her client; and (4) an audi-   regulatory authorities and is expected in the first half of fiscal
      tor may not provide services creating a mutual or conflicting       2014.
      interest between itself and the audit client.
                                                                          in november 2013, siemens announced a share buyback of up
      while non-audit-related services are not prohibited by law, ex-     to €4 billion ending latest on october 31, 2015. the buybacks
      cept for certain types of non-audit services enumerated in the      will be made under the current authorization granted at the
      sec’s rules, the audit committee has decided as a matter of         annual shareholders’ meeting on january 25, 2011, which al-
      policy not to engage the principal accountant to provide non        lows for further share repurchases of a maximum of 47.8 mil-
      audit-related services unless there is a compelling advantage       lion shares under this program. shares repurchased may be
      to the company in using the principal accountant and it can         used for cancelling and reducing capital stock, for issuing
      clearly be demonstrated that there is no impairment of inde-        shares to current and former employees, to members of the
      pendence.                                                           managing board and board members of affiliated companies
                                                                          and for meeting obligations from or in connection with con-
                                                                          vertible bonds or warrant bonds.
      note 40   corporate governance
      the managing board and the supervisory board of siemens
      ­
      aktiengesellschaft provided the declaration required by
      ­section 161 of the german stock corporation law (aktg) as of
       october 1, 2013, which is available on the company ’s website
       at    www.siemens.com/gcg-code .



      the managing board and the supervisory board of ibs ag
      ­excellence, collaboration, manufacturing, currently siemens’
       sole german publicly traded subsidiary which is included in
       the consolidated financial statements provided the declara-
       tion required by section 161 of the german stock corporation
       law (aktg) as of december 27, 2012, which is available at
         www.ibs-ag.de/en/company/investor-rel ations/corporate-

      governance .




334

note 42list of subsidiaries and associated
companies pursuant to section 313                                                                    september 30, 2013
                                                                                                                                                                                     equity interest
                                                                                                                                                                                                in %
para. 2 of the german commercial code                                                                mannesmann demag krauss-maffei gmbh, munich                                           100
                                                                                                     mechanik center erlangen gmbh, erlangen                                               100 10
                                                                                                     messma gmbh, irxleben                                                                 100
                                                                                                     optio grundstücks-vermietungsgesellschaft mbh & co.
                                                                                 equity interest
september 30, 2013                                                                          in %     objekt tübingen kg, grünwald                                                          100 9
subsidiaries                                                                                         partikeltherapiezentrum kiel holding gmbh, erlangen                                   100 10
germany (126 companies)                                                                              petscape gmbh, erlangen                                                               100 10
airport munich logistics and services gmbh, hallbergmoos                                100          project ventures butendiek holding gmbh, erlangen                                     100 10
alpha verteilertechnik gmbh, cham                                                       100 10       projektbau-arena-berlin gmbh, grünwald                                                100 10
anlagen- und rohrleitungsbau ratingen gmbh, ratingen                                    100 7        r & s restaurant services gmbh, munich                                                100
as audio-service gesellschaft mit beschränkter haftung,                                              remech systemtechnik gmbh, kamsdorf                                                   100 10
herford                                                                                 100          rhg vermögensverwaltung gmbh, berlin                                                  100 10
atecs mannesmann gmbh, erlangen                                                         100          risicom rückversicherung ag, grünwald                                                 100
berliner vermögensverwaltung gmbh, berlin                                               100 10       samtech deutschland gmbh, hamburg                                                     100
bwi services gmbh, meckenheim                                                           100 10       searenergy offshore projects gmbh & cie. kg, hamburg                                  100
capta grundstücksgesellschaft mbh & co. kg i.l., grünwald                               100 9        siemens audiologische technik gmbh, erlangen                                          100
capta grundstücks-verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh, grünwald                                 100          siemens bank gmbh, munich                                                             100
da creative gmbh, munich                                                                100          siemens beteiligungen inland gmbh, munich                                             100 10
dade behring beteiligungs gmbh, eschborn                                                100          siemens beteiligungen management gmbh, grünwald                                       100 7
dade behring grundstücks gmbh, marburg                                                  100          siemens beteiligungen usa gmbh, berlin                                                100 10
edi – uss umsatzsteuersammelrechnungen und signaturen                                                siemens beteiligungsverwaltung gmbh & co. ohg, grünwald                               100 9
gmbh & co. kg, munich                                                                   100 9        siemens building technologies holding gmbh, grünwald                                  100
edi – uss verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh, munich                                           100 7        siemens convergence creators gmbh & co. kg, hamburg                                   100 9
evosoft gmbh, nuremberg                                                                 100    10
                                                                                                     siemens convergence creators management gmbh, hamburg                                 100 7
facta grundstücks-entwicklungsgesellschaft mbh & co. kg,                                             siemens energy automation gmbh, erlangen                                              100 10
munich                                                                                  100 9        siemens finance & leasing gmbh, munich                                                100 10
hansecom gesellschaft für informations- und                                                          siemens financial services gmbh, munich                                               100 10
­kommunikationsdienstleistungen mbh, hamburg                                              74         siemens fonds invest gmbh, munich                                                     100 10
hsp hochspannungsgeräte gmbh, troisdorf                                                 100 10       siemens fuel gasification technology gmbh & co. kg, freiberg                          100 9
ibs aktiengesellschaft excellence, collaboration,                                                    siemens fuel gasification technology verwaltungs gmbh,
­manufacturing, höhr-grenzhausen                                                          81         freiberg                                                                              100 7
ibs business consulting gmbh, höhr-grenzhausen                                          100          siemens global innovation partners management gmbh,
ibs sinic gmbh, neu-anspach                                                             100          munich                                                                                100 7
illit grundstücks-verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh & co. kg i.l.,                                         siemens grundstücksmanagement gmbh & co. ohg,
grünwald                                                                                100 9        ­grünwald                                                                             100 9
illit grundstücksverwaltungs-management gmbh, grünwald                                    85         siemens gusstechnik gmbh, chemnitz                                                    100
immosuisse gmbh immobilien management i.l., berlin                                      100          siemens healthcare diagnostics gmbh, eschborn                                         100
ipgd grundstücksverwaltungs-gesellschaft mbh, grünwald                                  100          siemens healthcare diagnostics holding gmbh, eschborn                                 100
jawa power holding gmbh, erlangen                                                       100 10       siemens healthcare diagnostics products gmbh, marburg                                 100
komptime gmbh, munich                                                                   100 10       siemens immobilien chemnitz-voerde gmbh, grünwald                                     100 10
lincas electro vertriebsgesellschaft mbh, hamburg                                       100          siemens industriegetriebe gmbh, penig                                                 100 10
lincas export services gmbh, hamburg                                                    100    10
                                                                                                     siemens industriepark karlsruhe gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                               100 9
lms deutschland gmbh, kaiserslautern                                                    100          siemens industry automation holding ag, munich                                        100 10


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                            6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                               7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                 8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
           4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                     9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




253   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                       335
254   d.1      consolidated statements of income                    258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income     260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position       348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                      equity interest                                                                                    equity interest
      september 30, 2013                                                                         in %    september 30, 2013                                                                         in %
      siemens industry software gmbh & co. kg, cologne                                       100 9       skag principals, munich                                                               100
      siemens industry software management gmbh, cologne                                     100 7       sky eye transportation systems gmbh i.l., braunschweig                                100 7
      siemens insulation center gmbh & co. kg, zwönitz                                       100 9       steinmüller engineering gmbh, gummersbach                                             100
      siemens insulation center verwaltungs-gmbh, zwönitz                                    100 7       svm star ventures managementgesellschaft mbh nr. 3 & co.
      siemens medical solutions health services gmbh, erlangen                               100         beteiligungs kg nr. 2, munich                                                           99 3
      siemens nixdorf informationssysteme gmbh, grünwald                                     100         svm star ventures managementgesellschaft mbh nr. 3 & co.
      siemens novel businesses gmbh, munich                                                  100 10      beteiligungs kg nr. 3, munich                                                           99 3
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics gmbh & co. kg,                                          svm star ventures managementgesellschaft mbh nr. 3 & co.
      ­constance                                                                             100 7       beteiligungs kg nr. 4, munich                                                           99 3
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics verwaltungs gmbh,                                       sykatec systeme, komponenten, anwendungstechnologie
      constance                                                                              100 7       gmbh, erlangen                                                                        100 10
      siemens power control gmbh, langen                                                     100   10
                                                                                                         technopark berlin wohlrabedamm gmbh, grünwald                                           94
      siemens private finance versicherungs- und                                                         tgb technisches gemeinschaftsbüro gmbh, kassel                                        100
      ­kapitalanlagenvermittlungs-gmbh, munich                                               100 10      tlt-turbo gmbh, zweibrücken                                                           100
      siemens project ventures gmbh, erlangen                                                100 10      trench germany gmbh, bamberg                                                          100 10
      siemens real estate gmbh & co. ohg, grünwald                                           100 9       turbine airfoil coating and repair gmbh, berlin                                       100
      siemens real estate management gmbh, grünwald                                          100 7       verwaltung searenergy offshore projects gmbh, hamburg                                 100 7
      siemens spezial-investmentaktiengesellschaft mit tgv, munich                           100         vib verkehrsinformationsagentur bayern gmbh, munich                                     51
      siemens technology accelerator gmbh, munich                                            100 10      vmz berlin betreibergesellschaft mbh, berlin                                          100
      siemens technopark berlin verwaltungs gmbh, grünwald                                   100 7       vr-leasing ikana gmbh & co. immobilien kg, eschborn                                     94 3
      siemens technopark mülheim gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                                     100 9       vvk versicherungsvermittlungs- und verkehrskontor gmbh,
      siemens technopark mülheim verwaltungs gmbh, grünwald                                  100 7       munich                                                                                100 10
      siemens technopark nürnberg gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                                    100   9
                                                                                                         weiss spindeltechnologie gmbh, schweinfurt                                            100
      siemens technopark nürnberg verwaltungs gmbh, grünwald                                 100
      siemens treasury gmbh, munich                                                          100 10      europe, commonwealth of independent states (c.i.s.),
      siemens turbomachinery equipment gmbh, frankenthal                                     100 10      africa, middle east (without germany) (277 companies)
      siemens vai metals technologies gmbh, willstätt-legelshurst                            100 10      estel rail automation spa, algiers / algeria                                            51
      siemens venture capital gmbh, munich                                                   100 10      siemens spa, algiers / algeria                                                        100
      siemens water technologies gmbh, günzburg                                              100 7       siemens s.a., luanda / angola                                                           51
      siemens wind power gmbh, hamburg                                                       100 10      combuild kommunikations & gebäudetechnologie gmbh,
      sillit grundstücks-verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh, munich                                 100         vienna / austria                                                                      100
      sim 16. grundstücksverwaltungs- und -beteiligungs-­                                                etm professional control gmbh, eisenstadt / austria                                   100
      gmbh & co. kg, munich                                                                  100 9       hochquellstrom-vertriebs gmbh, vienna / austria                                       100
      sim 2. grundstücks-gmbh & co. kg, grünwald                                             100 9       ibs engineering consulting software gmbh in liqu.,
      simar nordost grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                               100 10      linz / austria                                                                        100
      simar nordwest grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                              100 10      ith icoserve technology for healthcare gmbh,
      simar ost grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                                   100 10      ­innsbruck / austria                                                                    69
      simar süd grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                                   100   10
                                                                                                         kdag beteiligungen gmbh, vienna / austria                                             100
      simar west grundstücks-gmbh, grünwald                                                  100 10      landis & staefa (österreich) gmbh, vienna / austria                                   100
      simos real estate gmbh, munich                                                         100 10      landis & staefa gmbh, vienna / austria                                                100
      skag fonds c1, munich                                                                  100         saudi voest-alpine gmbh, linz / austria                                               100
      skag fonds s7, munich                                                                  100         siemens aktiengesellschaft österreich, vienna / austria                               100
      skag fonds s8, munich                                                                  100         siemens convergence creators gmbh, eisenstadt / austria                               100


                1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                           6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                              7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
                3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                    9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.     10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




      92   a.       to our shareholders                                  117   b.     corporate ­governance                              155    c.     combined ­management report
336

                                                                                 equity interest                                                                                     equity interest
september 30, 2013                                                                          in %     september 30, 2013                                                                         in %
siemens convergence creators gmbh, vienna / austria                                     100          siemens industry software, s.r.o., prague / czech republic                            100
siemens convergence creators holding gmbh, vienna / austria                             100          siemens, s.r.o., prague / czech republic                                              100
siemens gebäudemanagement & -services g.m.b.h.,                                                      siemens a/s, ballerup / denmark                                                       100
­vienna / austria                                                                       100          siemens healthcare diagnostics aps, ballerup / denmark                                100
siemens healthcare diagnostics gmbh, vienna / austria                                   100          siemens höreapparater a/s, copenhagen / denmark                                       100
siemens industry software gmbh, linz / austria                                          100          siemens industry software a/s, allerød / denmark                                      100
siemens konzernbeteiligungen gmbh, vienna / austria                                     100          siemens wind power a/s, brande / denmark                                              100
siemens liegenschaftsverwaltung gmbh, vienna / austria                                  100          nem energy egypt llc, alexandria / egypt                                              100
siemens personaldienstleistungen gmbh, vienna / austria                                 100          siemens healthcare diagnostics s.a.e, cairo / egypt                                   100
siemens urban rail technologies holding gmbh,                                                        siemens ltd. for trading, cairo / egypt                                               100
­vienna / austria                                                                       100          siemens technologies s.a.e., cairo / egypt                                              90
siemens vai metals technologies gmbh, linz / austria                                    100          siemens healthcare diagnostics oy, espoo / finland                                    100
steiermärkische medizinarchiv gesmbh, graz / austria                                      52         siemens osakeyhtiö, espoo / finland                                                   100
trench austria gmbh, leonding / austria                                                 100          flender-graffenstaden sas, illkirch-graffenstaden / france                            100
urt urban rail technologies holding gmbh, vienna / austria                                50 1       lms france s.a.r.l, paris / france                                                    100
vvk versicherungs-vermittlungs- und verkehrs-kontor gmbh,                                            lms imagine, roanne / france                                                          100
vienna / austria                                                                        100          petnet solutions sas, saint-denis / france                                            100
siemens w.l.l., manama / bahrain                                                          51         preactor europe sas, dardilly / france                                                100
leuven measurement & systems belgium bvba,                                                           samtech france sa, massy / france                                                     100
                                                                                        100
­leuven / ­belgium                                                                                   siemens audiologie s.a.s., saint-denis / france                                       100
lms engineering nv, leuven / belgium                                                    100          siemens financial services sas, saint-denis / france                                  100
lms international nv, leuven / belgium                                                  100          siemens france holding, saint-denis / france                                          100
lms numerical technologies nv, leuven / belgium                                         100          siemens healthcare diagnostics s.a.s., saint-denis / france                           100
oktopus s.a./n.v., brussels / belgium                                                   100          siemens industry software sas, vélizy-villacoublay / france                           100
samtech sa, angleur / belgium                                                             60         siemens lease services sas, saint-denis / france                                      100
siemens healthcare diagnostics sa, brussels / belgium                                   100          siemens s.a.s., saint-denis / france                                                  100
siemens industry software nv, anderlecht / belgium                                      100          siemens transmission & distribution sas, grenoble / france                            100
siemens product lifecycle management software ii (be) bvba,                                          siemens vai metals technologies sas, savigneux / france                               100
anderlecht / belgium                                                                    100          trench france s.a.s., saint-louis / france                                            100
siemens s.a./n.v., anderlecht / belgium                                                 100          tecnomatix technologies (gibraltar) limited,
siemens d.o.o., banja luka / bosnia and herzegovina                                     100          ­gibraltar / ­gibraltar                                                               100
siemens d.o.o. sarajevo, sarajevo / bosnia and herzegovina                              100          broadcastle finance limited, stoke poges,
siemens pty. ltd., gaborone / botswana                                                  100          ­buckinghamshire / great britain                                                      100
siemens eood, sofia / bulgaria                                                          100          broadcastle ltd., stoke poges, buckinghamshire / great britain                        100
koncar power transformers d.o.o., zagreb / croatia                                        51         electrium sales limited, frimley, surrey / great britain                              100
siemens convergence creators d.o.o., zagreb / croatia                                   100          emeter international limited, frimley, surrey / great britain                         100
siemens d.d., zagreb / croatia                                                            98         gym renewables limited, frimley, surrey / great britain                               100
j. n. kelly security holding limited, larnaka / cyprus                                  100          gym renewables one limited, frimley, surrey / great britain                           100
kintec cyprus ltd, larnaka / cyprus                                                     100          leuven measurements & systems uk limited, frimley,
oez s.r.o., letohrad / czech republic                                                   100          ­surrey / great britain                                                               100
siemens audiologická technika s.r.o., prague / czech republic                           100          marine current turbines limited, frimley, surrey / great britain                      100
siemens convergence creators, s.r.o., prague / czech republic                           100          preactor international limited, chippenham,
siemens electric machines s.r.o., drasov / czech republic                               100          ­wiltshire / ­great britain                                                           100


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                            6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                               7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                 8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
           4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                     9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




253   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                       337
254   d.1      consolidated statements of income                    258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income     260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position       348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                      equity interest                                                                                    equity interest
      september 30, 2013                                                                         in %    september 30, 2013                                                                         in %

      project ventures rail investments i limited, frimley,                                              siemens rail systems project holdings limited, frimley,
      ­surrey / great britain                                                                100         ­surrey / great britain                                                               100
      samtech uk limited, frimley, surrey / great britain                                    100         siemens rail systems project limited, frimley,
      sbs pension funding (scotland) limited partnership,                                                ­surrey / great britain                                                               100
      ­edinburgh / great britain                                                               57 3      siemens real estate ltd., frimley, surrey / great britain                             100
      sea generation (brough ness) limited, frimley,                                                     siemens transmission & distribution limited, frimley,
      ­surrey / great britain                                                                100         ­surrey / great britain                                                               100
      sea generation (kyle rhea) limited, frimley,                                                       siemens vai metals technologies limited, frimley,
      ­surrey / great ­britain                                                               100         ­surrey / great britain                                                               100
      sea generation (wales) ltd., frimley, surrey / great britain                           100         siemens water technologies limited, frimley,
      sea generation limited, frimley, surrey / great britain                                100         ­surrey / great britain                                                               100 7
      siemens financial services holdings ltd., stoke poges,                                             the preactor group limited, chippenham,
      ­buckinghamshire / great britain                                                       100         ­wiltshire / great ­britain                                                           100
      siemens financial services ltd., stoke poges,                                                      tronic ltd., frimley, surrey / great britain                                          100
      ­buckinghamshire / great britain                                                       100         va tech (uk) ltd., frimley, surrey / great britain                                    100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics ltd., frimley,                                                      va tech reyrolle distribution ltd., frimley, surrey / great britain                   100
      ­surrey / great ­britain                                                               100         va tech t & d uk ltd., frimley, surrey / great britain                                100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics manufacturing ltd, frimley,                                         vtw anlagen uk ltd., banbury, oxfordshire / great britain                             100
      surrey / great britain                                                                 100         kintec a.e., athens / greece                                                          100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics products ltd, frimley,                                              siemens a.e., elektrotechnische projekte und erzeugnisse,
                                                                                                                                                                                               100
      ­surrey / great britain                                                                100         ­athens / greece
      siemens hearing instruments ltd., crawley,                                                         siemens healthcare diagnostics abee, athens / greece                                  100
      ­sussex / great ­britain                                                               100         evosoft hungary szamitastechnikai kft., budapest / hungary                            100
      siemens holdings plc, frimley, surrey / great britain                                  100         siemens audiológiai technika kereskedelmi és szolgáltató
      siemens industrial turbomachinery ltd., frimley,                                                   korlátolt felelösségü társaság, budapest / hungary                                    100
                                                                                             100
      ­surrey / great britain                                                                            siemens pse program- és rendszerfejlesztö kft.,
       siemens industry software limited, frimley,                                                       ­budapest / hungary                                                                   100
                                                                                             100
      ­surrey / great ­britain                                                                           siemens zrt., budapest / hungary                                                      100
      siemens pension funding (general) limited, frimley,                                                siemens sherkate sahami (khass), teheran / iran                                         97
                                                                                             100
      ­surrey / great britain                                                                            europlex technologies (ireland) limited, dublin / ireland                             100
      siemens pension funding (scotland) limited,                                                        imetrex technologies limited, dublin / ireland                                        100
      ­edinburgh / great britain                                                             100 7       siemens limited, dublin / ireland                                                     100
      siemens pension funding limited, frimley,                                                          robcad limited, airport city / israel                                                 100
      ­surrey / great ­britain                                                               100         ruggedcom ltd., herzliya / israel                                                     100
      siemens plc, frimley, surrey / great britain                                           100         siemens concentrated solar power ltd., beit shemesh / israel                          100
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics limited, frimley,                                       siemens industry software ltd., airport city / israel                                 100
      ­surrey / great britain                                                                100 7       siemens israel ltd., tel aviv / israel                                                100
      siemens protection devices limited, frimley,                                                       siemens product lifecycle management software 2 (il) ltd.,
      ­surrey / great ­britain                                                               100         airport city / israel                                                                 100
      siemens rail automation holdings limited, frimley,                                                 ugs israeli holdings (israel) ltd., airport city / israel                             100
      ­surrey / great britain                                                                100         hv-turbo italia s.r.l., mornago / italy                                                 51
      siemens rail automation limited, frimley,                                                          lms italiana s.r.l., turin / italy                                                    100
      surrey / great britain                                                                 100         samtech italiana s.r.l., milan / italy                                                100


                1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                           6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                              7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
                3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                    9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.     10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




      92   a.       to our shareholders                                  117   b.     corporate ­governance                              155    c.     combined ­management report
338

                                                                                 equity interest                                                                                     equity interest
september 30, 2013                                                                          in %     september 30, 2013                                                                         in %
siemens healthcare diagnostics s.r.l., milan / italy                                    100          siemens healthcare diagnostics as, oslo / norway                                      100
siemens hearing instruments italy s.r.l., milan / italy                                 100          siemens höreapparater as, oslo / norway                                               100
siemens industry software s.r.l, milan / italy                                          100          siemens l.l.c., muscat / oman                                                           51
siemens renting s.p.a. in liquidazione, milan / italy                                   100          siemens pakistan engineering co. ltd., karachi / pakistan                               66
siemens s.p.a., milan / italy                                                           100          audio sat sp. z o.o., poznan / poland                                                 100
siemens transformers s.p.a., trento / italy                                             100          siemens finance sp. z o.o., warsaw / poland                                           100
trench italia s.r.l., savona / italy                                                    100          siemens industry software sp. z o.o., warsaw / poland                                 100
turbocare s.p.a., turin / italy                                                         100          siemens sp. z o.o., warsaw / poland                                                   100
turboservice torino s.p.a., turin / italy                                               100 7        turbocare poland spólka akcyjna, lubliniec / poland                                   100
siemens too, almaty / kazakhstan                                                        100          turbocare sp. z o.o., wroclaw / poland                                                  80
siemens kenya ltd., nairobi / kenya                                                     100          siemens healthcare diagnostics, unipessoal lda.,
siemens electrical & electronic services k.s.c.c.,                                                   ­amadora / portugal                                                                   100
kuwait city / kuwait                                                                      49 2       siemens s.a., amadora / portugal                                                      100
tecnomatix technologies sarl, luxembourg / luxembourg                                   100          siemens w.l.l., doha / qatar                                                            40 2
tfm international s.a. i.l., luxembourg / luxembourg                                    100          lms romania s.r.l., brasov / romania                                                  100
siemens d.o.o. podgorica, podgorica / montenegro                                        100          siemens (austria) proiect spital coltea srl,
scientific medical solution diagnostics s.a.r.l.,                                                    ­bucharest / romania                                                                  100
­casablanca / morocco                                                                   100          siemens convergence creators s.r.l., brasov / romania                                 100
siemens plant operations tahaddart sarl, tanger / morocco                               100          siemens s.r.l., bucharest / romania                                                   100
siemens s.a., casablanca / morocco                                                      100          simea sibiu s.r.l., sibiu / romania                                                   100
siemens lda., maputo / mozambique                                                       100          ooo advanced urban rail systems,
siemens pty. ltd., windhoek / namibia                                                   100          ­moscow / ­russian ­federation                                                        100 7
lms instruments bv, breda / netherlands                                                 100          ooo legion ii, moscow / russian federation                                            100
nem energy b.v., leiden / netherlands                                                   100          ooo legion t2, moscow / russian federation                                            100
nem energy holding b.v., the hague / netherlands                                        100          ooo russian turbo machinery, perm / russian federation                                  51
siemens audiologie techniek b.v., the hague / netherlands                               100          ooo siemens, moscow / russian federation                                              100
siemens diagnostics holding ii b.v., the hague / netherlands                            100          ooo siemens elektroprivod, st. petersburg / russian federation                          66
siemens finance b.v., the hague / netherlands                                           100          ooo siemens gas turbine technologies,
siemens financieringsmaatschappij n.v.,                                                              novoe ­devyatkino / russian federation                                                100
the hague / ­netherlands                                                                100          ooo siemens high voltage products, ufimsky
siemens gas turbine technologies holding b.v.,                                                       ­district / ­russian federation                                                       100
the hague / netherlands                                                                   65         ooo siemens industry software, moscow / russian federation                            100
siemens healthcare diagnostics b.v., amersfoort / netherlands                           100          ooo siemens train technologies,
siemens industry software b.v., s-hertogenbosch / netherlands                           100          verkhnyaya ­pyshma / ­russian federation                                              100
siemens international holding b.v., the hague / netherlands                             100          ooo siemens transformers, voronezh / russian federation                               100
siemens medical solutions diagnostics holding i b.v.,                                                ooo siemens urban rail technologies,
the hague / netherlands                                                                 100          ­moscow / ­russian ­federation                                                        100
siemens nederland n.v., the hague / netherlands                                         100          siemens finance llc, vladivostok / russian federation                                 100
siemens train technologies holding b.v.,                                                             siemens research center limited liability company,
the hague / ­netherlands                                                                  51         ­moscow / russian federation                                                          100
turbocare b.v., hengelo / netherlands                                                   100          arabia electric ltd. (equipment), jeddah / saudi arabia                                 51
siemens ltd., lagos / nigeria                                                           100          iscosa industries and maintenance ltd., riyadh / saudi arabia                           51
siemens as, oslo / norway                                                               100          siemens ltd., jeddah / saudi arabia                                                     51


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                            6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                               7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                 8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
           4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                     9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




253   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                       339
254   d.1      consolidated statements of income                    258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income     260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position       348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                      equity interest                                                                                    equity interest
      september 30, 2013                                                                         in %    september 30, 2013                                                                         in %
      va tech t & d co. ltd., riyadh / saudi arabia                                            51        siemens healthcare diagnostics ab, södertälje / sweden                                100
      westinghouse saudi arabia ltd., riyadh / saudi arabia                                  100 7       siemens industrial turbomachinery ab, finspong / sweden                               100
      siemens d.o.o. beograd, belgrade / serbia                                              100         siemens industry software ab, kista / sweden                                          100
      oez slovakia, spol. s r.o., bratislava / slovakia                                      100         dade behring diagnostics ag, düdingen / switzerland                                   100
       sat systémy automatizacnej techniky spol. s.r.o.,                                                 huba control ag, würenlos / switzerland                                               100
      ­bratislava / slovakia                                                                   60        siemens audiologie ag, adliswil / switzerland                                         100
      siemens program and system engineering s.r.o.,                                                     siemens fuel gasification technology holding ag,
      ­bratislava / slovakia                                                                 100         zug / ­switzerland                                                                    100
      siemens s.r.o., bratislava / slovakia                                                  100         siemens healthcare diagnostics ag, zurich / switzerland                               100
      siprin s.r.o., bratislava / slovakia                                                   100         siemens industry software ag, zurich / switzerland                                    100
      siemens d.o.o., ljubljana / slovenia                                                   100         siemens postal & parcel logistics technologies ag,
      dade behring south africa (pty) ltd, randfontein / south africa                        100         zurich / ­switzerland                                                                 100 7
      linacre investments (pty) ltd., kenilworth / south africa                                  0   3
                                                                                                         siemens power holding ag, zug / switzerland                                           100
      marqott (proprietory) limited, pretoria / south africa                                 100         siemens schweiz ag, zurich / switzerland                                              100
      marqott holdings (pty.) ltd., pretoria / south africa                                  100         stadt / land immobilien ag, zurich / switzerland                                      100
      siemens (proprietary) limited, midrand / south africa                                    70        siemens tanzania ltd., dar es salaam / tanzania                                       100
      siemens building technologies (pty) ltd.,                                                          siemens s.a., tunis / tunisia                                                         100
      ­midrand / south ­africa                                                               100         siemens finansal kiralama a.s., istanbul / turkey                                     100
      siemens employee share ownership trust,                                                            siemens isitme cihazlari sanayi ve ticaret anonim sirketi,
      ­johannesburg / south africa                                                               03      istanbul / turkey                                                                     100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics (pty.) limited,                                                     siemens sanayi ve ticaret a.s., istanbul / turkey                                     100
      ­isando / south africa                                                                 100         100% foreign owned subsidiary “siemens ukraine”,
      siemens hearing solution (pty.) ltd., randburg / south africa                          100         kiev / ukraine                                                                        100
      siemens it solutions and services (pty) ltd.,                                                      sd (middle east) llc, dubai / united arab emirates                                      49 2
      ­johannesburg / south africa                                                           100         siemens llc, abu dhabi / united arab emirates                                           49 2
      fábrica electrotécnica josa, s.a., barcelona / spain                                   100         siemens middle east limited,
      petnet soluciones, s.l., sociedad unipersonal, madrid / spain                          100         ­masdar city / ­united arab ­emirates                                                 100
      samtech iberica engineering & software services s.l.,                                              siemens pvt. ltd., harare / zimbabwe                                                  100 7
      ­barcelona / spain                                                                     100
      siemens fire & security products, s.a., madrid / spain                                 100         americas (106 companies)
      siemens healthcare diagnostics s.l., barcelona / spain                                 100         siemens it services s.a., buenos aires / argentina                                    100
      siemens holding s.l., madrid / spain                                                   100         siemens s.a., buenos aires / argentina                                                100
      siemens industry software s.l., barcelona / spain                                      100         va tech international argentina sa, buenos aires / argentina                          100
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics, s.l.                                                   siemens soluciones tecnologicas s.a., santa
      ­sociedad unipersonal, madrid / spain                                                  100 7       cruz de la ­sierra / bolivia                                                          100
      siemens rail automation holding s.a., madrid / spain                                   100         chemtech servicos de engenharia e software ltda.,
      siemens rail automation s.a.u., madrid / spain                                         100         rio de janeiro / brazil                                                               100
      siemens renting s.a., madrid / spain                                                   100         iriel indústria cómercio de sistemas eléctricos ltda.,
      siemens s.a., madrid / spain                                                           100         ­canoas / brazil                                                                      100
      telecomunicación, electrónica y conmutación s.a.,                                                  lms da américa do sul servicos de engenharia ltda,
      madrid / spain                                                                         100         são ­paulo / brazil                                                                   100
      siemens ab, upplands väsby / sweden                                                    100         siemens aparelhos auditivos ltda., são paulo / brazil                                 100
      siemens financial services ab, stockholm / sweden                                      100         siemens eletroeletronica limitada, manaus / brazil                                    100


                1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                           6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                              7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
                3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                    9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.     10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




      92   a.       to our shareholders                                  117   b.     corporate ­governance                              155    c.     combined ­management report
340

                                                                                 equity interest                                                                                     equity interest
september 30, 2013                                                                          in %     september 30, 2013                                                                         in %
siemens healthcare diagnósticos ltda., são paulo / brazil                               100          siemens healthcare diagnostics, s. de r.l. de c.v.,
siemens industry software ltda., são caetano do sul / brazil                            100          méxico, d.f. / mexico                                                                 100
siemens ltda., são paulo / brazil                                                       100          siemens industry software, sa de cv, santa fe / mexico                                100
siemens rail automation ltda. , são paulo / brazil                                      100          siemens inmobiliaria s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                              100
siemens serviços de monitoramento eletrônico ltda.,                                                  siemens innovaciones s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                              100
são paulo / brazil                                                                      100 7        siemens servicios s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                 100
siemens vai metals services ltda., volta redonda / brazil                               100          siemens, s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                          100
vai – ingdesi automation ltda., belo horizonte / brazil                                 100          siemens s.a., managua / nicaragua                                                     100
dade behring hong kong holdings corporation,                                                         siemens healthcare diagnostics panama, s.a,
­tortola / ­british virgin islands                                                      100          ­panama city / panama                                                                 100
ruggedcom inc., ontario / canada                                                        100          siemens s.a., panama city / panama                                                    100
siemens canada ltd., ontario / canada                                                   100          siemens s.a.c., lima / peru                                                           100
siemens financial ltd., oakville / canada                                               100          siemens s.a., montevideo / uruguay                                                    100
siemens hearing instruments inc., ontario / canada                                      100          siemens telecomunicaciones s.a., montevideo / uruguay                                 100
siemens industry software ltd., ontario / canada                                        100          audiology distribution, llc, wilmington, de / usa                                     100
siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics ltd.,                                                     emeter corporation, wilmington, de / usa                                              100
oakville / canada                                                                       100 7        fce international, llc, huntingdon valley, pa / usa                                   100
siemens transformers canada inc., trois-rivières / canada                               100          hearusa ipa, inc., new york, ny / usa                                                 100
siemens water technologies ltd., oakville / canada                                      100          hearx west llc, west palm beach, fl / usa                                               50 2
trench ltd., saint john / canada                                                        100          hearx west, inc., los angeles, ca / usa                                               100
turbocare canada ltd., calgary / canada                                                 100          ibs america, inc., lexington, ma / usa                                                100
wheelabrator air pollution control (canada) inc.,                                                    lms north america, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                         100
­ontario / ­canada                                                                      100          mannesmann corporation, new york, ny / usa                                            100
siemens healthcare diagnostics manufacturing limited,                                                nem usa corp., wilmington, de / usa                                                   100
george town / cayman islands                                                            100          nimbus technologies, llc, bingham farms, mi / usa                                     100
siemens s.a., santiago de chile / chile                                                 100          p.e.t.net houston, llc, austin, tx / usa                                                51
siemens manufacturing s.a., bogotá / colombia                                           100          pace global, llc, wilmington, de / usa                                                100
siemens s.a., costado sur – tenjo / colombia                                            100          petnet indiana llc, indianapolis, in / usa                                              50 1
siemens healthcare diagnostics s.a., san josé / costa rica                              100          petnet solutions cleveland, llc, wilmington, de / usa                                   63
siemens s.a., san josé / costa rica                                                     100          petnet solutions, inc., knoxville, tn / usa                                           100
siemens, s.r.l., santo domingo / dominican republic                                     100          preactor north america inc., dallas, tx / usa                                         100
siemens s.a., quito / ecuador                                                           100          siemens capital company llc, wilmington, de / usa                                     100
siemens s.a., san salvador / el salvador                                                100          siemens convergence creators corp., wilmington, de / usa                              100 7
siemens healthcare diagnostics guatemala, s.a.,                                                      siemens corporation, wilmington, de / usa                                             100
­guatemala / guatemala                                                                    99         siemens credit warehouse, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                  100
siemens s.a., guatemala / guatemala                                                     100          siemens demag delaval turbomachinery, inc.,
siemens s.a., tegucigalpa / honduras                                                    100          ­wilmington, de / usa                                                                 100
dade behring, s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                       100          siemens electrical, llc, wilmington, de / usa                                         100
grupo siemens s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                       100          siemens energy, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                            100
indústria de trabajos eléctricos s.a. de c.v., ciudad                                                siemens financial services, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                100
juárez / mexico                                                                         100          siemens financial, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                         100
ingdesi s.a. de c.v., monterrey / mexico                                                100          siemens fossil services, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                   100
proyectos de energia s.a. de c.v., méxico, d.f. / mexico                                100          siemens generation services company, wilmington, de / usa                             100


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                            6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                               7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                 8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
           4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                     9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




253   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                       341
254   d.1      consolidated statements of income                    258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income     260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position       348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                      equity interest                                                                                    equity interest
      september 30, 2013                                                                         in %    september 30, 2013                                                                         in %
      siemens government technologies, inc., wilmington, de / usa                            100         kaon holdings pty. ltd., loganholme qld / australia                                   100 7
      siemens healthcare diagnostics inc., los angeles, ca / usa                             100         memcor australia pty. ltd., south windsor / australia                                 100
      siemens hearing instruments, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                100         siemens hearing instruments pty. ltd., bayswater / australia                          100
      siemens industry, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                           100         siemens ltd., bayswater / australia                                                   100
      siemens medical solutions usa, inc., wilmington, de / usa                              100         siemens rail automation holding pty. ltd., clayton / australia                        100
      siemens molecular imaging, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                  100         siemens rail automation investment pty. ltd.,
                                                                                                                                                                                               100
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics llc,                                                    ­clayton / australia
      ­wilmington, de / usa                                                                  100 7       siemens rail automation pty. ltd., clayton / australia                                100
      siemens power generation service company, ltd.,                                                    siemens water technologies pty ltd, bayswater / australia                             100 7
      ­wilmington, de / usa                                                                  100         westinghouse mckenzie-holland pty ltd, clayton / australia                            100
      siemens product lifecycle management software inc.,                                                siemens bangladesh ltd., dhaka / bangladesh                                           100
      ­wilmington, de / usa                                                                  100         beijing siemens cerberus electronics ltd., beijing / china                            100
      siemens public, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                             100         chengdu kk&k power fan co., ltd., chengdu / china                                       51
      siemens rail automation carborne systems inc.,                                                     dpc (tianjin) co., ltd., tianjin / china                                              100
      ­harrisburg, pa / usa                                                                  100         gis steel & aluminum products co., ltd. hangzhou,
      siemens rail automation corporation, wilmington, de / usa                              100         ­hangzhou / china                                                                       51
      siemens treated water outsourcing corp.,                                                           ibs industrial business software (shanghai), ltd.,
      ­wilmington, de / usa                                                                  100         ­shanghai / china                                                                     100
      siemens usa holdings, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                       100         lms (beijing) technology co. ltd, beijing / china                                     100
      siemens water technologies llc, wilmington, de / usa                                   100         mwb (shanghai) co ltd., shanghai / china                                                65
      smi holding llc, wilmington, de / usa                                                  100         siemens building technologies (tianjin) ltd., tianjin / china                           70
      turbocare, inc., wilmington, de / usa                                                  100         siemens business information consulting co.,ltd,
      wheelabrator air pollution control inc., baltimore, md / usa                           100         ­beijing / ­china                                                                     100
      winergy drive systems corporation, wilmington, de / usa                                100         siemens circuit protection systems ltd., shanghai / china                               75
      siemens rail automation, c.a., caracas / venezuela                                     100         siemens eco-city innovation technologies (tianjin) co., ltd.,
      siemens s.a., caracas / venezuela                                                      100         tianjin / china                                                                         60 7
                                                                                                         siemens electrical apparatus ltd., suzhou / china                                     100
      asia, australia (147 companies)                                                                    siemens electrical drives (shanghai) ltd., shanghai / china                           100
      australia hospital holding pty limited, bayswater / australia                          100         siemens electrical drives ltd., tianjin / china                                         85
      exemplar health (nbh) 2 pty limited, bayswater / australia                             100 7       siemens factory automation engineering ltd.,
      exemplar health (nbh) holdings 2 pty limited,                                                      beijing / china                                                                       100
      ­bayswater / ­australia                                                                100         siemens finance and leasing ltd., beijing / china                                     100
      exemplar health (nbh) trust 2, bayswater / australia                                   100         siemens financial services ltd., beijing / china                                      100
      exemplar health (scuh) 3 pty limited, bayswater / australia                            100 7       siemens gas turbine parts ltd., shanghai / china                                        51
      exemplar health (scuh) 4 pty limited, bayswater / australia                            100 7       siemens healthcare diagnostics (shanghai) co. ltd.,
      exemplar health (scuh) holdings 3 pty limited,                                                     ­shanghai / china                                                                     100
      ­bayswater / australia                                                                 100         siemens hearing instruments (suzhou) co. ltd., suzhou / china                         100
      exemplar health (scuh) holdings 4 pty limited,                                                      siemens high voltage circuit breaker co., ltd.,
      ­bayswater / australia                                                                 100         ­hangzhou / ­china                                                                      51
      exemplar health (scuh) trust 3, bayswater / australia                                  100         siemens high voltage switchgear co., ltd. shanghai,
      exemplar health (scuh) trust 4, bayswater / australia                                  100         ­shanghai / china                                                                       51
      kaon consulting pty. ltd., loganholme qld / australia                                  100 7       siemens high voltage switchgear guangzhou ltd.,
      kaon electric pty. ltd., loganholme qld / australia                                    100 7       ­guangzhou / china                                                                      94


                1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                           6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                              7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
                3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                    9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.     10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




      92   a.       to our shareholders                                  117   b.     corporate ­governance                              155    c.     combined ­management report
342

                                                                                 equity interest                                                                                     equity interest
september 30, 2013                                                                          in %     september 30, 2013                                                                         in %

siemens industrial automation ltd., shanghai,                                                        siemens vai metals technologies co., ltd., shanghai,
­shanghai / ­china                                                                      100          ­shanghai / china                                                                     100
siemens industrial turbomachinery (huludao) co. ltd.,                                                siemens venture capital co., ltd., beijing / china                                    100
­huludao / china                                                                          84         siemens water technologies and engineering (tianjin) co.,
siemens industry software (shanghai) co., ltd.,                                                      ltd., tianjin / china                                                                   68
­shanghai / ­china                                                                      100          siemens water technologies ltd., beijing / china                                      100
siemens international trading ltd., shanghai, shanghai / china                          100          siemens wind power blades (shanghai) co., ltd.,
siemens investment consulting co., ltd., beijing / china                                100          ­shanghai / china                                                                     100
siemens ltd., china, beijing / china                                                    100          siemens wind power turbines (shanghai) co. ltd.,
siemens manufacturing and engineering centre ltd.,                                                   ­shanghai / china                                                                       49 2
­shanghai / china                                                                         51         siemens wiring accessories shandong ltd., zibo / china                                100
siemens mechanical drive systems (tianjin) co., ltd.,                                                siemens x-ray vacuum technology ltd., wuxi / china                                    100
­tianjin / china                                                                        100          smart metering solutions (changsha) co. ltd.,
siemens medical solutions diagnostics ltd., beijing / china                             100          ­changsha / ­china                                                                      60
siemens medium voltage switching technologies (wuxi) ltd.,                                           trench high voltage products ltd., shenyang, shenyang / china                           65
wuxi / china                                                                              85         winergy drive systems (tianjin) co. ltd., tianjin / china                             100
siemens numerical control ltd., nanjing / china                                           80         yangtze delta manufacturing co. ltd., hangzhou,
siemens plm software (shenzhen) limited, shenzhen / china                               100          ­hangzhou / china                                                                       51
siemens power automation ltd., nanjing / china                                          100          asia care holding limited, hong kong / hong kong                                      100 7
siemens power equipment packages co. ltd., shanghai,                                                 samtech hk ltd, hong kong / hong kong                                                 100
shanghai / china                                                                          65         siemens healthcare diagnostics limited,
siemens power plant automation ltd., nanjing / china                                    100          hong kong / hong kong                                                                 100
siemens rail automation technical consulting services                                                siemens industry software limited, hong kong / hong kong                              100
(­beijing) co. ltd., beijing / china                                                    100 7        siemens ltd., hong kong / hong kong                                                   100
siemens real estate management (beijing) ltd., co.,                                                  lms india engineering solutions pvt ltd, chennai / india                              100
­beijing / china                                                                        100          petnet radiopharmaceutical solutions pvt. ltd.,
siemens sensors & communication ltd., dalian / china                                    100          new ­delhi / india                                                                    100
siemens shanghai medical equipment ltd., shanghai / china                               100          powerplant performance improvement ltd., new delhi / india                              50 1
siemens shenzhen magnetic resonance ltd.,                                                            preactor software india private limited, bangalore / india                            100
shenzhen / china                                                                        100          siemens convergence creators private limited, mumbai / india                          100
siemens signalling co. ltd., xi’an, xian / china                                          70         siemens financial services private limited, mumbai / india                            100
siemens special electrical machines co. ltd., changzhi / china                            77         siemens hearing instruments pvt. ltd., bangalore / india                              100
siemens standard motors ltd., jiangsu, yizheng / china                                  100          siemens industry software (india) private limited,
siemens surge arresters ltd., wuxi / china                                              100          new ­delhi / india                                                                    100
siemens switchgear co. ltd., shanghai / china                                             55         siemens ltd., mumbai / india                                                            75
siemens technology development (beijing) ltd. corp.,                                                 siemens postal and parcel logistics technologies private
­beijing / china                                                                          90         ­limited, mumbai / india                                                              100 7
siemens transformer (guangzhou) co., ltd.,                                                           siemens postal parcel & airport logistics private limited,
­guangzhou / ­china                                                                       63         ­mumbai / india                                                                       100
siemens transformer (jinan) company ltd., jinan / china                                   90         siemens rail automation pvt. ltd., bangalore / india                                  100
siemens transformer (wuhan) company ltd.,                                                            siemens technology and services private limited,
wuhan city / ­china                                                                     100          ­mumbai / india                                                                       100
siemens vai manufacturing (taicang) co., ltd., taicang / china                          100          p.t. siemens indonesia, jakarta / indonesia                                           100


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                            6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                               7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                 8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
           4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                     9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.      10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




253   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                    357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                       343
254   d.1      consolidated statements of income                    258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income     260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position       348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                      equity interest                                                                                    equity interest
      september 30, 2013                                                                         in %    september 30, 2013                                                                         in %
      pt. siemens industrial power, kota bandung / indonesia                                   60        va tech holding (thailand) co. ltd., bangkok / thailand                               100
      siemens hearing instruments batam, pt, batam / indonesia                               100         va tech transmission & distribution co. ltd.,
      acrorad co., ltd., okinawa / japan                                                       57        ­bangkok / ­thailand                                                                  100
      best sound k.k., sagamihara / japan                                                      93        siemens ltd., ho chi minh city / vietnam                                              100
      lms japan kk, kanagawa / japan                                                         100
      siemens healthcare diagnostics k.k., tokyo / japan                                     100         associated companies and joint ventures
      siemens hearing instruments k.k., tokyo / japan                                        100         germany (30 companies)
      siemens industry software k.k., tokyo / japan                                          100         advanced power ag und siemens project ventures gmbh
      siemens japan holding k.k., tokyo / japan                                              100         in gbr, hamburg                                                                         50
      siemens japan k.k., tokyo / japan                                                      100         ats projekt grevenbroich gmbh, schüttorf, schüttorf                                     25 8
      siemens product lifecycle management software ii (jp) k.k.,                                        bellis gmbh, braunschweig                                                               49 8
      tokyo / japan                                                                          100         bsh bosch und siemens hausgeräte gmbh, munich                                           50
      lms korea co. ltd, seoul / korea                                                       100         bwi informationstechnik gmbh, meckenheim                                                50 4
      siemens industry software ltd., seoul / korea                                          100         dks dienstleistungsgesellschaft f. kommunikationsanlagen
      siemens ltd. seoul, seoul / korea                                                      100         des stadt- und regionalverkehrs mbh, cologne                                            49 8
      siemens petnet korea co. ltd., seoul / korea                                           100         emis electrics gmbh, lübbenau / spreewald                                               49
      hrsg systems (malaysia) sdn. bhd., kuala lumpur / malaysia                             100         feag fertigungscenter für elektrische anlagen gmbh,
      reyrolle (malaysia) sdn. bhd., kuala lumpur / malaysia                                 100         ­erlangen                                                                               49 8
      siemens malaysia sdn. bhd., petaling jaya / malaysia                                   100         hansaton akustik gmbh, hamburg                                                          50 8
      siemens subsea systems sdn. bhd, kuala lumpur / malaysia                               100         iftec gmbh & co. kg, leipzig                                                            50
       siemens transportation turnkey systems sdn. bhd.,                                                 infineon technologies bipolar gmbh & co. kg, warstein                                   40
      ­petaling jaya / malaysia                                                              100         infineon technologies bipolar verwaltungs-gmbh, warstein                                40 8
      siemens water technologies sdn. bhd.,                                                              innovative wind concepts gmbh, husum                                                    50
      ­petaling jaya / ­malaysia                                                             100 7       lib verwaltungs-gmbh, leipzig                                                           50 8
      va tech malaysia sdn.bhd., kuala lumpur / malaysia                                     100         maschinenfabrik reinhausen gmbh, regensburg                                             26
      siemens (n.z.) limited, auckland / new zealand                                         100         mevis breastcare gmbh & co. kg, bremen                                                  49
      dade behring diagnostics philippines, inc.,                                                        mevis breastcare verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh, bremen                                    49 8
      manila / philippines                                                                   100         owp butendiek gmbh & co. kg, bremen                                                     23
      siemens power operations, inc., manila / philippines                                   100         partikeltherapiezentrum kiel gmbh & co. kg, kiel                                        50 8
      siemens, inc., manila / philippines                                                    100         power vermögensbeteiligungsgesellschaft mbh die erste,
      petnet solutions private limited, singapore / singapore                                100         hamburg                                                                                 50 8
      ruggedcom asia pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                                        100         ptz partikeltherapiezentrum kiel management gmbh,
      siemens industry software pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                             100         ­wiesbaden                                                                              50 8
      siemens medical instruments pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                           100         siemens venture capital fund 1 gmbh, munich                                           100 4, 8
      siemens postal, parcel & airport logistics pte. ltd.,                                              siemens-electrogeräte gmbh, munich                                                    100 4, 8
      ­singapore / singapore                                                                 100    7
                                                                                                         skag eurocash, munich                                                                   11 6
      siemens pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                                               100         skag qualität & dividende europa, munich                                                34
      siemens rail automation pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                               100         symeo gmbh, neubiberg                                                                   65 4, 8
      siemens water technologies pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                            100 7       transrapid international verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh i.l.,
      siemens industry software (tw) co., ltd., taipei / taiwan                              100         ­berlin                                                                                 50 8
      siemens ltd., taipei / taiwan                                                          100         voith hydro holding gmbh & co. kg, heidenheim                                           35
      siemens limited, bangkok / thailand                                                      99        voith hydro holding verwaltungs gmbh, heidenheim                                        35 8
      siemens water technologies limited, bangkok / thailand                                 100    7
                                                                                                         wustermark energie gkw beteiligungs-gmbh, hamburg                                       50 8


                1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                           6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                              7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
                3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                    9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.     10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




      92   a.       to our shareholders                                  117   b.     corporate ­governance                              155    c.     combined ­management report
344

                                                                                 equity interest                                                                                      equity interest
september 30, 2013                                                                          in %      september 30, 2013                                                                         in %

europe, commonwealth of independent states (c.i.s.),                                                  temir zhol electrification llp, astana / kazakhstan                                     49
africa, middle east (without germany) (63 companies)                                                  solutions & infrastructure services limited, gzira / malta                              50
arelion gmbh, hagenberg im mühlkreis / austria                                            25 8        energie electrique de tahaddart s.a., tanger / morocco                                  20
aspern smart city research gmbh, vienna / austria                                         44 8        enterprise networks holdings b.v.,
aspern smart city research gmbh & co kg, vienna / austria                                 44          amsterdam / netherlands                                                                 49
e-mobility provider austria gmbh, vienna / austria                                        50 8        infraspeed maintainance b.v., zoetermeer / netherlands                                  46
e-mobility provider austria gmbh & co kg, vienna / austria                                50          ural locomotives holding besloten vennootschap,
oil and gas proserv llc, baku / azerbaijan                                                25 8        the hague / netherlands                                                                 50
dils energie nv, brussels / belgium                                                       50          voest-alpine technical services ltd., abuja / nigeria                                   40 8
t-power nv, brussels / belgium                                                            20          wirescan as, torp / norway                                                              27 8
meomed s.r.o., prerov / czech republic                                                    47 8        rousch (pakistan) power ltd., karachi / pakistan                                        26
a2sea a/s, fredericia / denmark                                                           49          windfarm polska ii sp. z o.o., koszalin / poland                                        50 8
compagnie electrique de bretagne, s.a.s., paris / france                                  40          ooo northern capital express, moscow / russian federation                               25 8
trixell s.a.s., moirans / france                                                          25          ooo transconverter, moscow / russian federation                                         35 8
breesea limited, london / great britain                                                   50          ooo unipower transmission solutions,
cross london trains holdco 2 limited, london / great britain                              33          region moskau ­krasnogorsky district / russian federation                               50
gwynt y mor offshore wind farm limited, swindon,                                                      ooo vis automation mit zusatz
­wiltshire / great britain                                                                10 6        “ein ­gemeinschaftsunter­nehmen von vis und siemens”,
heron wind limited, london / great britain                                                33          ­moscow / russian federation                                                            49

 lincs renewable energy holdings limited,                                                             zao interautomatika, moscow / russian federation                                        46
­london / great ­britain                                                                  50          zao nuclearcontrol, moscow / russian federation                                         40 8
njord limited, london / great britain                                                     33          zao systema-service, st. petersburg / russian federation                                26
odos imaging ltd., edinburgh / great britain                                              50 8        impilo consortium (pty.) ltd., la lucia / south africa                                  31
optimus wind limited, london / great britain                                              50          merida power, s.l., madrid / spain                                                      50 8
plessey holdings ltd., frimley, surrey / great britain                                    50 8        nertus mantenimiento ferroviario y servicios s.a.,
pyreos limited, edinburgh / great britain                                                 37 8        ­barcelona / spain                                                                      51 4
sesmos limited, edinburgh / great britain                                                 50 8        soleval renovables s.l., sevilla / spain                                                50
smart wind limited, london / great britain                                                50          solucia renovables 1, s.l., lebrija (sevilla) / spain                                   50
smart wind spc 5 limited, london / great britain                                          50 8        termica afap s.a., villacanas / spain                                                   23 8
smart wind spc 6 limited, london / great britain                                          50   8
                                                                                                      certas ag, zurich / switzerland                                                         50
smart wind spc 7 limited, london / great britain                                          50 8        interessengemeinschaft tus, männedorf / switzerland                                     50
smart wind spc 8 limited, london / great britain                                          50 8        zentrum oberengstringen ag,
unincorporated joint venture gwynt y mor, swindon,                                                    oberengstringen / switzerland                                                           42 8
­wiltshire / great britain                                                                10 6
eviop-tempo a.e. electrical equipment manufacturers,                                                  americas (12 companies)
­vassiliko / greece                                                                       48          cia técnica de engenheria eletrica sucursal argentina
szeged energia zrt., szeged / hungary                                                     50          va ­tech argentina s.a. union transitoria de empresas,
arava power company ltd., d.n. eilot / israel                                             40 8        ­buenos aires / argentina                                                               30 8
global sun israel, l.p., d.n. eilot / israel                                              35          britepointe, inc., dover, de / usa                                                      40 8
metropolitan transportation solutions ltd., rosh haayin / israel                          20 8        brockton power company llc, boston, ma / usa                                            23
transfima geie, turin / italy                                                             42 8        brockton power holdings inc., boston, ma / usa                                          25 8
transfima s.p.a., milan / italy                                                           49   8
                                                                                                      brockton power properties, inc., boston, ma / usa                                       25 8
val 208 torino geie, milan / italy                                                        86   4, 8
                                                                                                      cyclos semiconductor, inc., dover, de / usa                                             32


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                             6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
           2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                                7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
           3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                  8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
           4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                      9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
           5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.       10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




253   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                     357    e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                        345
254   d.1      consolidated statements of income                    258   d.5    consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income     260   d.6    notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position       348   d.7    supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

                                                                                      equity interest                                                                                    equity interest
      september 30, 2013                                                                         in %    september 30, 2013                                                                         in %
      phsith llc, new castle, de / usa                                                         33        shanghai electric power generation equipment co., ltd.,
      power properties inc., boston, ma / usa                                                  25 8      shanghai / china                                                                        40
      rether networks, inc., berkeley, ca / usa                                                30        shanghai electric wind energy co., ltd., shanghai / china                               49
      siemens first capital commercial finance, llc,                                                     siemens traction equipment ltd., zhuzhou,
      ­oklahoma ­city, ok / usa                                                                51 4      zhuzhou / china                                                                         50
      treated water outsourcing, a nalco/u.s. filter joint venture,                                      zhenjiang siemens busbar trunking systems co. ltd.,
      naperville, il / usa                                                                     50        ­yangzhong / china                                                                      50
      innovex capital en tecnologia, c.a., caracas / venezuela                                 20   6
                                                                                                         bangalore international airport ltd., bangalore / india                                 26
                                                                                                         transparent energy systems private limited, pune / india                                25 8
      asia, australia (21 companies)                                                                     p.t. jawa power, jakarta / indonesia                                                    50
      exemplar health (nbh) partnership, melbourne / australia                                 50        pt asia care indonesia, jakarta / indonesia                                             40
      exemplar health (scuh) partnership, sydney / australia                                   50        kanto hochouki co., ltd., ibaragi / japan                                               25 8
      chinainvent (shanghai) instrument co., ltd, shanghai / china                             30   8
                                                                                                         kikoeno soudanshitsu co., ltd., tochigi / japan                                         50 8
      fce (beijing) heat treatment technology co., ltd.,                                                 koden co., ltd., hiroshima / japan                                                      43 8
      ­beijing / ­china                                                                        30 8      yaskawa siemens automation & drives corp.,
      gsp china technology co., ltd., beijing / china                                          50        ­kitakyushu / japan                                                                     50
      rose power transmission technology co., ltd, anshan / china                              50        power automation pte. ltd., singapore / singapore                                       49
      saitong railway electrification (nanjing) co., ltd.,                                               modern engineering and consultants co. ltd.,
      ­nanjing / ­china                                                                        50 8      ­bangkok / ­thailand                                                                    40 8


                1   control due to a majority of voting rights.                                           6   significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.
                2   control due to contractual arrangements.                                              7   not consolidated due to immateriality.
                3   control due to economic circumstances.                                                8   not accounted for using the equity method due to immateriality.
                4   no control due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.                    9   exemption pursuant to section 264 b german commercial code.
                5   no significant influence due to contractual arrangements or legal circumstances.     10 exemption pursuant to section 264 (3) german commercial code.




      92   a.       to our shareholders                                  117   b.     corporate ­governance                              155    c.     combined ­management report
346

                                                                                                                                               equity interest       net income         equity in
                                                                                                                                                          in %     in millions of   millions of €
september 30, 2013                                                                                                                                                              €
other investments 12
germany (10 companies)
ausbildungszentrum für technik, informationsverarbeitung und wirtschaft gemeinnützige gmbh (atiw), paderborn                                          100 4, 5                 0                2
boma verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh & co. kg, grünwald                                                                                                   100 4, 5                 3               (44)
bsav kapitalbeteiligungen und vermögensverwaltungs management gmbh, grünwald                                                                          100 4, 5                 3               50
kyros beteiligungsverwaltung gmbh, grünwald                                                                                                           100 4, 5               46                339
maena grundstücks-verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh & co. kg, grünwald                                                                                        97 4, 5                1           (101)
osram licht ag, munich                                                                                                                                  20 5, 11             (3)                0
realtime technology ag, munich                                                                                                                           9                     5                35
siemens global innovation partners i gmbh & co. kg, munich                                                                                              50 5                   7               75
siemens pensionsfonds ag, grünwald                                                                                                                    100 4, 5                 0                8
sim 9. grundstücksverwaltungs- und -beteiligungs-gmbh, munich                                                                                         100 4, 5                 1               10


europe, commonwealth of independent states (c.i.s.), africa, middle east (without germany) (4 companies)
atos s.a., bezons cedex / france                                                                                                                        14                 228           2,349
siemens benefits scheme limited, frimley, surrey / great britain                                                                                        74 4, 5                0                 0
medical systems s.p.a., genoa / italy                                                                                                                   45 5                   7                79
corporate xii s.a. (sicav-fis), luxembourg / luxembourg                                                                                               100 4, 5               88          6,800


americas (4 companies)
middle east opportunities fund spc obo solar energy i segregated portfolio, george town / cayman islands                                                42 5                   1                 6
global healthcare exchange llc, wilmington, de / usa                                                                                                     7                   (4)               204
ibahn corporation, south jordan, ut / usa                                                                                                                9                   (3)                34
longview intermediate holdings b, llc, wilmington, de / usa                                                                                              7                  (36)               810


           1   control due to a majority of voting rights.              6	significant influence due to contractual arrangements    10	exemption pursuant to section 264 (3)
                                                                           or legal circumstances.                                      ­german ­commercial code.
           2   control due to contractual arrangements.
                                                                        7 not consolidated due to immateriality.                    11	interests in the capital of 2.5% are held by siemens
           3   control due to economic circumstances.
                                                                                                                                        pension trust e.v.
                                                                        8	not accounted for using the equity method due to
           4	no control due to contractual arrangements or
                                                                           immateriality.                                           12	values according to the latest available local gaap
              ­legal circumstances.
                                                                                                                                        financial statements; the underlying fiscal year may
                                                                        9	exemption pursuant to section 264 b
           5	no significant influence due to contractual                                                                               differ from the siemens fiscal year.
                                                                           ­german ­commercial code.
              ­arrangements or legal circumstances.




this is a translation of the german ”konzernabschluss gemäß
§315a (1) hgb der siemens ag zum 30. september 2013.“
sole authoritative and universally valid version is the german
language document.




253   d.       consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                  357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                      347
254   d.1      consolidated statements of income                  258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2      consolidated statements of comprehensive income   260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3       consolidated statements of financial position     348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4       consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.7  supervisory board and managing board


      d.7.1 supervisory board
      gerhard cromme, dr. iur.                lothar adler*                                 michael diekmann                         bettina haller*
      chairman                                chairman of the central works                 chairman of the board of                 chairwoman of the combine works
      chairman of the supervisory board       ­council, siemens ag                          ­management, allianz se                  council, siemens ag
      of siemens ag                           date of birth: february 22, 1949              date of birth: december 23, 1954         date of birth: march 14, 1959
      date of birth: february 25, 1943        member since: january 23, 2003                member since: january 24, 2008           member since: april 1, 2007
      member since: january 23, 2003                                                        external positions
      external positions                                                                    german supervisory board positions:
                                              jean-louis beffa                                                                       hans-jürgen hartung*
      german supervisory board positions:                                                   >> allianz asset management ag,
                                              (until january 23, 2013)                                                               chairman of the works council,
      >> axel springer ag, berlin                                                              munich (chairman)
                                              honorary chairman of                                                                   siemens energy sector, erlangen,
                                                                                            >> allianz deutschland ag, munich
                                              ­compagnie de saint-gobain                                                             ­germany
                                                                                            >> basf se, ludwigshafen am rhein
      berthold huber*                         date of birth: august 11, 1941                   (deputy chairman)                     date of birth: march 10, 1952
                                              member since: january 24, 2008                >> linde ag, munich                      member since: january 27, 2009
      first deputy chairman
                                                                                               (­­deputy ­chairman)
                                              external positions 3
      first chairman, ig metall                                                             positions outside germany:
                                              positions outside germany:                                                             robert kensbock*
      date of birth: february 15, 1950                                                      >> allianz france s.a., france
      member since: july 1, 2004              >> claude bernard participations                                                       (since january 23, 2013)
                                                                                               (­deputy chairman)
                                                 s.a.s., france (chairman)
      external positions                                                                    >> allianz s.p.a., italy                 member of the central
                                              >> gdf suez s.a., france
                                                                                                                                     works ­council, siemens ag
      german supervisory board positions:     >> jl2b conseils, france (chairman)
      >> audi ag, ingolstadt                  >> le monde s.a., france                                                               date of birth: march 13, 1971
                                                                                            hans michael gaul, dr. iur.
         (­deputy ­chairman)                  >> le monde & partenaires associés                                                     member since: january 23, 2013
                                                 s.a.s., france                             supervisory board member
      >> porsche automobil holding se,
         stuttgart                            >> saint-gobain corporation, usa              date of birth: march 2, 1942
      >> volkswagen ag, wolfsburg             >> société editrice du monde s.a.,            member since: january 24, 2008           harald kern*
         (­deputy chairman)                      france                                     external positions                       chairman of the
                                                                                            german supervisory board positions:      siemens europe committee
                                              gerd von brandenstein                         >> bdo ag wirtschaftsprüfungs-           date of birth: march 16, 1960
      josef ackermann, dr. oec. 1
                                                                                               gesellschaft, hamburg                 member since: january 24, 2008
      (until september 30, 2013)              member of the supervisory boards
                                                                                               (­deputy chairman)
      second deputy chairman 2                of siemens ag and degewo ag
                                                                                            >> hsbc trinkaus & burkhardt ag,
      advisory board member                   date of birth: april 6, 1942                     düsseldorf                            jürgen kerner*
                                              member since: january 24, 2008
      date of birth: february 7, 1948                                                                                                executive managing board
      member since: january 23, 2003          external positions                                                                     ­member, ig metall
                                                                                            peter gruss, prof. dr. rer. nat.
      external positions                      german supervisory board positions:                                                    date of birth: january 22, 1969
                                              >> degewo ag, berlin                          president, max-planck-gesellschaft       member since: january 25, 2012
      positions outside germany:                                                            zur förderung der wissenschaften e.v.
      >> belenos clean power holding ag,                                                                                             external positions
                                                                                            date of birth: june 28, 1949
         switzerland (deputy chairman)                                                      member since: january 24, 2008           german supervisory board positions:
      >> eqt holdings ab, sweden                                                                                                     >> airbus operations gmbh, hamburg
      >> investor ab, sweden                                                                external positions
                                                                                                                                     >> eurocopter gmbh, donauwörth
      >> royal dutch shell plc, netherlands                                                 german supervisory board positions:      >> man se, munich
                                                                                            >> münchener rückversicherungs-­         >> premium aerotec gmbh, augsburg
                                                                                               gesellschaft aktiengesellschaft          (deputy chairman)
                                                                                               in münchen, munich
                                                                                            positions outside germany:
                                                                                            >> actelion ltd., switzerland




      92   a.    to our shareholders                        117   b.     corporate ­governance                         155   c.   combined ­management report
348

nicola leibinger-kammüller,                      werner mönius*                                  rainer sieg*, prof. dr. iur.               sibylle wankel*
dr. phil.                                        (until january 23, 2013)                        chairman of the committee of               attorney, bavarian regional
president and chairwoman                         chairman of the works council,                  spokespersons, siemens group;              ­headquarters, ig metall
of the managing board,                           siemens healthcare sector,                      ­chairman of the central committee         date of birth: march 3, 1964
trumpf gmbh + co. kg                             ­erlangen, germany 4                             of spokespersons, siemens ag              member since: april 1, 2009
date of birth: december 15, 1959                 date of birth: may 16, 1954                     date of birth: december 20, 1948           external positions
member since: january 24, 2008                   member since: january 24, 2008                  member since: january 24, 2008
                                                                                                                                            german supervisory board positions:
external positions                                                                                                                          >> audi ag, ingolstadt
german supervisory board positions:                                                              jim hagemann snabe 1                       >> vaillant gmbh, remscheid
                                                 güler sabancı
>> axel springer ag, berlin                      (since january 23, 2013)                        (since october 1, 2013)
>> deutsche lufthansa ag, cologne
>> voith gmbh, heidenheim                        chairwoman and managing director,                        ­ xecutive officer of
                                                                                                 co-chief e                                 werner wenning
                                                 hacı ömer sabancı holding a.ş.                  sap ag; ceo, snabe aps                     (since january 23, 2013)
                                                 date of birth: august 14, 1955                  date of birth: october 27, 1965            second deputy chairman 6
gérard mestrallet                                member since: january 23, 2013                  member since: october 1, 2013
                                                                                                                                            chairman of the supervisory boards
(since january 23, 2013)                                                                         external positions                         of bayer ag and e.on. se
chairman of the board and chief                                                                  positions outside germany:
                                                 håkan samuelsson                                                                           date of birth: october 21, 1946
­executive officer of gdf suez s.a.                                                              >> bang & olufsen a/s, denmark             member since: january 23, 2013
                                                 (until january 23, 2013)
date of birth: april 1, 1949                                                                        (­deputy chairman)
                                                                                                                                            external positions
member since: january 23, 2013                   president and ceo,                              >> danske bank a/s, denmark
                                                 ­volvo car ­corporation                         >> sap labs llc, usa                       german supervisory board positions:
external positions
                                                 date of birth: march 19, 1951                   >> success factors inc., usa               >> bayer ag, leverkusen (chairman)
positions outside germany:                                                                       >> syclo llc, usa                          >> e.on se, düsseldorf (chairman)
                                                 member since: january 24, 2008
>> compagnie de saint-gobain s.a.,                                                                                                          >> henkel ag & co. kgaa, düsseldorf 7
   france                                        external positions 3
                                                                                                                                            >> henkel management ag,
>> electrabel s.a., belgium (chairman)           german supervisory board positions:             birgit steinborn*                             ­düsseldorf
>> gdf suez energy management                    >> scandferries holding gmbh,                   deputy chairwoman of the central
   trading cvba, belgium (chairman)                 ­rostock (chairman) 5                        works council, siemens ag
>> gdf suez energie services s.a.,               >> scandlines gmbh, rostock
   france (chairman)                                                                             date of birth: march 26, 1960
                                                    (­chairman)
>> international power ltd., uk                                                                  member since: january 24, 2008
                                                 positions outside germany:
>> pargesa holding s.a., switzerland
                                                 >> volvo car corporation, sweden
>> sociedad general de
   aguas de ­barcelona s.a., spain                                                               lord iain vallance of tummel
   (­deputy chairman)                                                                            (until january 23, 2013)
>> suez environnement company                                                                    chairman, amsphere ltd.
   s.a., france (chairman)
                                                                                                 date of birth: may 20, 1943
                                                                                                 member since: january 23, 2003


the supervisory board of siemens ag has 20 members. as stipulated by the german codetermination
act, half of the members represent company shareholders, and half represent company employees.
the shareholder representatives were elected at the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 23,
2013. the employee representatives, whose names are marked with an asterisk (*), were elected in
accordance with the provisions of the german codetermination act on september 25, 2012, effective
as of the end of the annual shareholders’ meeting on january 23, 2013. the present supervisory
board’s term of office will expire at the conclusion of the annual shareholders’ meeting in 2018.
as successor to dr. josef ackermann, who resigned from the supervisory board effective september 30,
2013, jim hagemann snabe has been appointed to the supervisory board by court order until the end
of the annual shareholders’ meeting 2014.


       1 as successor to dr. josef ackermann, who resigned from the supervisory board effective september 30, 2013,
          jim hagemann snabe has been appointed to the supervisory board by court order until the end of the a   ­ nnual
          shareholders’ meeting in 2014. it will be proposed to the annual shareholders’ meeting that mr. snabe be elected
          as a shareholder representative on the supervisory board for the remainder of dr. ackermann’s term of office.
       2    until september 30, 2013.
       3    as of january 23, 2013.
       4    until january 31, 2013.
       5    advisory board.
       6    since october 1, 2013.
       7    shareholdersʼ committee.



as of september 30, 2013




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                               357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                    349
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258    d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260    d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348    d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.7.1.1 supervisory board committees
      the supervisory board of siemens ag has established seven
      standing committees. information on their activities in fiscal
      2013 is provided in    a.3 report of the supervisory board ,

      ­pages 108-109 above.



      committees                      meetings             duties and responsibilities                                                 members
                                      in ­fiscal 2013                                                                                  as of ­september 30, 2013


      chairman’s                      9                    the chairman’s committee performs the collective tasks of a                 gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
      ­committee                      3 decisions by       ­nominating and corporate governance committee to the extent                (chairman)
                                      notational voting     that such tasks are not performed by the nominating committee              josef ackermann, dr. oec. 1
                                      using written         and german law does not require that such tasks be performed               lothar adler
                                      ­circulations         by the full supervisory board. in particular, the committee makes
                                                                                                                                       berthold huber
                                                           proposals regarding the appointment and dismissal of managing
                                                           board members and handles contracts with members of the                     werner wenning 2
                                                            ­managing board. the chairman’s committee concerns itself with
                                                           questions regarding the company’s corporate governance and
                                                           prepares the resolutions to be approved by the supervisory board
                                                           regarding the declaration of conformity with the code, including
                                                           the explanation of deviations from the code, and regarding the
                                                           approval of the corporate governance report and the report of
                                                           the super­visory board to the annual shareholders’ meeting. further-
                                                           more, the committee submits recommendations to the super­
                                                             visory board regarding the composition of supervisory board com-
                                                             mittees and decides whether to approve business transactions
                                                             with managing board members and parties related to them.
      compensation                    1                    the compensation committee prepares the proposals for decisions             werner wenning
      committee                       1 decision by        by the supervisory board’s plenary meetings regarding the system            (chairman)
                                      ­notational voting   of managing board compensation, including the implementation                josef ackermann, dr. oec. 1
                                       using written       of this system in the managing board contracts, the definition of           lothar adler
                                       ­circulations       the targets for variable managing board compensation, the deter-            gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
                                                           mination and review of the appropriateness of the total compensa-
                                                                                                                                       michael diekmann 3
                                                           tion of individual managing board members and the approval of
                                                           the annual compensation report. in addition, the compensation               berthold huber
                                                           committee prepares the regular review by the supervisory board’s            birgit steinborn
                                                           plenary meetings of the system of managing board compensation.
      audit committee                 6                    the audit committee oversees the accounting process. it also pre-           hans michael gaul, dr. iur. 4, 5
                                                           pares the supervisory board’s recommendation to the annual                  (chairman)
                                                           shareholders’ meeting concerning the election of the independent            josef ackermann, dr. oec. 1
                                                           auditors and submits the corresponding proposal to the full super-          gerd von brandenstein 3
                                                           visory board. in addition to the work performed by the indepen-
                                                                                                                                       gerhard cromme, dr. iur. 4
                                                           dent auditors, the audit committee also discusses the company’s
                                                           financial statements, which are prepared by the managing board              bettina haller
                                                           quarterly, half-yearly and annually. on the basis of the indepen-           robert kensbock 3
                                                           dent auditors’ report on the annual financial statements, the audit         jürgen kerner
                                                           committee makes, after its own review, recommendations to the               jim hagemann snabe 3
                                                           supervisory board regarding the approval of the annual financial            birgit steinborn
                                                           statements of siemens ag and the consolidated financial state-
                                                           ments of siemens worldwide. it concerns itself with the company’s
                                                           risk monitoring system and oversees the effectiveness of the inter-
                                                           nal control system as this relates, in particular, to financial report-
                                                           ing, the risk management system and the internal audit system.
                                                           the internal audit department reports regularly to the audit com-
                                                           mittee. the audit committee awards the audit contract to the
                                                           independent auditors elected by the annual shareholders’ meeting
                                                           and monitors the independent audit of the financial statements –
                                                           including, in particular, the auditors’ independence, ­professional
                                                           expertise and services – and performs other functions assigned to
                                                           it under the sarbanes-oxley act (soa).




      92   a.   to our shareholders                            117   b.   corporate ­governance                     155   c.   combined ­management report
350

committees                           meetings             duties and responsibilities                                                                 members
                                     in ­fiscal 2013                                                                                                  as of ­september 30, 2013


compliance                           5                    the compliance committee concerns itself, in particular, ­with the                          gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
­committee                                                                                             ­ fficial ­regulations
                                                          company’s adherence to statutory provisions, o                                              (chairman)
                                                          and internal company policies.                                                              josef ackermann, dr. oec. 1
                                                                                                                                                      lothar adler
                                                                                                                                                      gerd von brandenstein 3
                                                                                                                                                      hans michael gaul, dr. iur.
                                                                                                                                                      bettina haller
                                                                                                                                                      harald kern 3
                                                                                                                                                      jim hagemann snabe 3
                                                                                                                                                      sibylle wankel
finance and                          3                    based on the company’s overall strategy, which is the focus of                              gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
­investment                                               an annual strategy meeting of the supervisory board, the finance                            (chairman)
 ­committee 6                                             and ­investment c­ ommittee prepares the discussions and resolu-                            lothar adler
                                                          tions of the supervisory board regarding questions relating to                              gerd von brandenstein 7
                                                          the company’s financial s­ ituation and structure as well as its fixed
                                                                                                                                                      peter gruss, prof. dr. rer. nat. 3
                                                          asset and financial investments. in addition, the committee has
                                                          been authorized by the supervisory board to decide on the approv-                           harald kern
                                                          al of transactions and measures that require supervisory board                              jürgen kerner
                                                          approval and have a value of less than €600 million.                                        gérard mestrallet 7
                                                                                                                                                      jim hagemann snabe 3
                                                                                                                                                      birgit steinborn
                                                                                                                                                      werner wenning
nominating                           5                    the nominating committee is responsible for making recommen-                                gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
­committee                                                dations to the supervisory board on suitable candidates for election                        (chairman)
                                                          as shareholder representatives on the supervisory board by the                              josef ackermann, dr. oec. 1
                                                          annual shareholders’ meeting.                                                               hans michael gaul, dr. iur.
                                                                                                                                                      nicola leibinger-kammüller,
                                                                                                                                                      dr. phil.
                                                                                                                                                      werner wenning 2
mediation                            0                    the mediation committee submits proposals to the super­visory                               gerhard cromme, dr. iur.
­committee,                                               board in the event that the supervisory board cannot reach the                              (chairman)
 ­under section 27                                        two-thirds majority required for the appointment or dismissal of                            josef ackermann, dr. oec. 1
                                                          a managing board member.                                                                    lothar adler
  para. 3 and section
  31 para. 3 and 5                                                                                                                                    berthold huber
  of the german                                                                                                                                       werner wenning 3
  codetermination
  act

       1    until september 30, 2013.                  4 audit committee financial expert as        5 fulfills the requirements of section          6 renamed “­innovation and finance
                                                          defined by the sarbanes-oxley act.            100 para. 5 and section 107 para. 4 of           ­committee” in november 2013.
       2    since october 1, 2013.
                                                                                                        the german stock corporation act
                                                                                                                                                      7 until november 2013.
       3    since november 2013.                                                                        (­aktiengesetz).




further information on corporate governance
at siemens is available at
      www.siemens.com/corporate-governance




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                                  357    e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                            351
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                   258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income    260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position      348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.7.2 managing board
      joe kaeser                               peter löscher                                brigitte ederer                            barbara kux
      president and chief executive officer,   (until july 31, 2013)                        (until september 30, 2013)                 (until november 16, 2013)
      siemens ag 1                             president and chief executive officer,       date of birth: february 27, 1956           date of birth: february 26, 1954
      date of birth: june 23, 1957             siemens ag 5                                 first appointed: july 1, 2010              first appointed: november 17, 2008
      first appointed: may 1, 2006             date of birth: september 17, 1957            term originally to have expired:           term expired: november 16, 2013
      term expires: july 31, 2018              first appointed: july 1, 2007                june 30, 2015                              external positions
      external positions                       term originally to have expired:             external positions                         german supervisory board positions:
                                               march 31, 2017                               german supervisory board positions:
      german supervisory board positions:                                                                                              >> henkel ag & co. kgaa, düsseldorf
      >> allianz deutschland ag, munich        external positions 6                         >> jenoptik ag, jena                       positions outside germany:
      positions outside germany:               german supervisory board positions:          positions outside germany:                 >> firmenich international sa,
      >> nxp semiconductors b.v.,              >> deutsche bank ag,                         >> boehringer ingelheim rcv gmbh,             ­switzerland
         ­netherlands                             ­frankfurt am main                           austria                                 >> total s.a., france
                                               >> münchener rückversicherungs-              >> österreichische industrie­
      group company positions
                                                   gesellschaft aktiengesellschaft             holding ag (öiag), austria
      german supervisory board positions:          in münchen, munich                       group company positions 7
                                                                                                                                       hermann requardt,
      >> bsh bosch und siemens                 positions outside germany:                                                              prof. dr. phil. nat.
         ­hausgeräte gmbh, munich                                                           positions outside germany:
                                               >> tbg limited, malta                                                                   date of birth: february 11, 1955
          (­deputy chairman) 2                                                              >> siemens ag österreich, austria
                                                   (­thyssen-­bornemisza group)                                                        first appointed: may 1, 2006
      positions outside germany:                                                               (chairwoman)
                                                                                                                                       term expires: march 31, 2016
                                                                                            >> siemens holdings plc, uk
      >> siemens ag österreich, austria 3                                                                                              external positions
                                                                                            >> siemens nederland n.v.,
      >> siemens corp., usa                    roland busch, dr. rer. nat.
                                                                                               ­netherlands (chairwoman)               german supervisory board positions:
         (­deputy ­chairman) 4                 date of birth: november 22, 1964             >> siemens s.a., spain (chairwoman)        >> software ag, darmstadt
      >> siemens ltd., india                   first appointed: april 1, 2011               >> siemens s.p.a., italy
                                               term expires: march 31, 2016                                                            group company positions
                                                                                                (­deputy ­chairwoman)
                                               external positions                                                                      positions outside germany:
                                                                                                                                       >> siemens healthcare diagnostics
                                               positions outside germany:
                                                                                            klaus helmrich                                inc., usa
                                               >> atos s.a., france
                                                                                            date of birth: may 24, 1958                >> siemens japan holding k.k., japan
                                               group company positions                      first appointed: april 1, 2011                (chairman)
                                               positions outside germany:                   term expires: march 31, 2016               >> siemens japan k.k., japan
                                                                                                                                          (­chairman)
                                               >> siemens industry inc., usa                external positions
                                                                                                                                       >> siemens medical solutions usa,
                                               >> siemens ltd., china (chairman)
                                                                                            german supervisory board positions:           inc., usa (chairman)
                                               >> siemens ltd., india
                                               >> siemens pte. ltd., singapore              >> eos holding ag, krailling
                                               >> siemens schweiz ag, switzerland           group company positions
                                                  (chairman)                                german supervisory board positions:
                                                                                            >> bsh bosch und siemens
                                                                                               ­hausgeräte gmbh, munich




      92   a.   to our shareholders                           117   b.   corporate ­governance                           155   c.   combined ­management report
352

siegfried russwurm,                              peter y. solmssen
prof. dr.-ing.                                   date of birth: january 24, 1955
date of birth: june 27, 1963                     first appointed: october 1, 2007
first appointed: january 1, 2008                 term expires: march 31, 2017 8
term expires: march 31, 2017                     group company positions
external positions                               positions outside germany:
german supervisory board positions:              >> siemens corp., usa (chairman)
>> deutsche messe ag, hanover                    >> siemens s.a., colombia (chairman)
>> inpro innovationsgesellschaft für
   fortgeschrittene produktions­
   systeme in der fahrzeugindustrie              michael süß, dr.rer.pol.
   mbh, berlin                                   date of birth: december 25, 1963
>> osram gmbh, munich (chairman)                 first appointed: april 1, 2011
>> osram licht ag, munich                        term expires: march 31, 2016
   (­chairman)                                   external positions
group company positions                          german supervisory board positions:
german supervisory board positions:              >> herrenknecht ag, schwanau
>> bsh bosch und siemens
   ­hausgeräte gmbh, munich
positions outside germany:                       ralf p. thomas, dr.rer.pol.
>> arabia electric ltd. (equipment),             date of birth: march 7, 1961
    saudi arabia (deputy chairman)               first appointed: september 18, 2013
>> siemens industry inc., usa                    term expires: september 17, 2018
    (­chairman)                                  group company positions
>> siemens ltd., china
                                                 positions outside germany:
>> siemens ltd., saudi arabia
    (­deputy chairman)                           >> siemens holdings plc, uk
>> siemens ltd., south africa                    >> siemens industry inc., usa
    (­chairman)                                  >> siemens vai metals technologies
>> siemens middle east, fz-llc,                     gmbh, austria
    ­united arab emirates
>> siemens vai metals technologies
     gmbh, austria
>> va tech t & d co. ltd.,
     ­saudi ­arabia




       1    since august 1, 2013.           7    until september 30, 2013.
       2    until november 30, 2013.        8 as a rule, reappointments are effected until
                                               the completion of the 60th year of life only,
       3    until november 5, 2013.
                                               but with the added proviso that they may be
       4    until october 1, 2013.             extended one year at a time for a maximum
       5    until july 31, 2013.               of five additional years if neither the member
                                               of the managing board nor the supervisory
       6    as of july 31, 2013.               board objects.




as of september 30, 2013




253   d.    consolidated ­financial statements                                                                              357   e.   additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                 353
254   d.1   consolidated statements of income                    258   d.5   consolidated statements of changes in equity
255   d.2   consolidated statements of comprehensive income     260   d.6   notes to consolidated financial statements
256   d.3    consolidated statements of financial position       348   d.7   supervisory board and managing board
257   d.4    consolidated statements of cash flows

      d.7.2.1 managing board committees



      committee                         meetings             duties and responsibilities                                       members
                                        in ­fiscal 2013                                                                        as of ­september 30, 2013


      equity and                        5 decisions by       the equity and ­employee stock ­committee oversees the utiliza-   joe kaeser
      ­employee stock                   notational ­voting   tion of authorized capital in connection with the issuance of     (chairman) 1
       ­committee                       using ­written       employee stock as well as the implementation of certain capital   brigitte ederer 2
                                        ­circulations        measures. it also determines the scope and conditions of the      klaus helmrich 3
                                                             share-based compensation c­ omponents and / or compensation
                                                                                                                               ralf p. thomas, dr. rer. pol. 4
                                                             programs for employees and managers (with the exception of
                                                             the managing board).


            1   since august 1, 2013.                        3 since october 1, 2013.
            2   until september 30, 2013.                    4 since september 18, 2013.




      further information on corporate governance
      at siemens is available at
         www.siemens.com/corporate-governance




354

                                                                                                       e.
additional
information
358 e.1 responsibility statement
                                                                                                       additional
359 e.2 independent auditor’s report                                                                   information


361 e.3 statement of the managing board


362 e.4 five-year summary


364 e.5 glossary
   responsibility statement
366 e.6 index


368 e.7 company structure


370 e.8 further information and
          information resources
                             independent auditor’s report
371 e.9 financial calendar


                                         statement of the managing board




                     five-year summary




                                                    company structure




                                                                                                                           e. additional information


                                     financial calendar




                                                                                                                     357
    due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this additional information chapter may not add up
    precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

      d.7.2.1 managing board committees              how have the company ’s key business
                                                     figures developed over the past five
      committee                         meetings years?            what
                                                          duties and           are the key financial dates
                                                                       responsibilities                                   members
                                        in fiscal 2013                                                                    as of september 30, 2013
                                                     for the next twelve months? how is
      equity and
      employee stock
                                                     thethecompany
                                        5 decisions by
                                                                                  structured? all this infor-
                                                               equity and employee stock committee oversees the utiliza-
                                        notational voting tion of authorized capital in connection with the issuance of
                                                                                                                          joe kaeser
                                                                                                                          (chairman)   1


      committee                         using written
                                        circulations
                                                     mation          is available here. a wealth of
                                                          employee stock as well as the implementation of certain capital
                                                          measures. it also determines the scope and conditions of the
                                                                                                                          brigitte ederer
                                                                                                                          klaus helmrich
                                                                                                                                           2

                                                                                                                                            3


                                                     guidance             for finding your way around
                                                          share-based compensation components and / or compensation
                                                          programs for employees and managers (with the exception of
                                                                                                                          ralf p. thomas, dr. rer. pol.
                                                                                                                                                      4




                                                     annual          report 2013 is also available.
                                                          the managing board).


            1   since august 1, 2013.                     3   since october 1, 2013.
            2   until september 30, 2013.                4 since september 18, 2013.
                                                       www.siemens.com/ar/additional-information




      further information on corporate governance
      at siemens is available at
         www.siemens.com/corporate-governance




354

                                                                                                        e.
additional
information
358 e.1 responsibility statement
                                                                                                        additional
359 e.2 independent auditor’s report                                                                    ­information


361 e.3 statement of the managing board


362 e.4 five-year summary


364 e.5 glossary


366 e.6 index


368 e.7 company structure


370 e.8 further information and
          ­information resources


371 e.9 financial calendar




                                                                                                                             e. additional information




                                                                                                                       357
    due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this ­additional information chapter may not add up
    ­precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures.

      e.1  responsibility statement


      to the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the                  the management report for siemens aktiengesellschaft, in-
      applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial
      ­                                                                         cludes a fair review of the development and performance of
      statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities,          the business and the position of the group, together with a
      financial position and profit or loss of the group, and the               description of the material opportunities and risks associated
      group management report, which has been combined with                     with the expected development of the group.

      munich, november 20, 2013

      siemens aktiengesellschaft
      the managing board




      joe kaeser                                             dr. roland busch                                        klaus helmrich




      prof. dr. hermann requardt                             prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                            peter y. solmssen




      dr. michael süß                                        dr. ralf p. thomas




      92   a.   to our shareholders               117   b.   corporate ­governance                   155   c.   combined ­management report
358

e.2  independent auditor’s report


to siemens aktiengesellschaft, berlin and munich                                ­ ccordingly, we are required to comply with ethical require-
                                                                                a
                                                                                ments and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
report on the consolidated                                                      assurance about whether the consolidated financial state-
                                                                                ­
financial statements                                                            ments are free from material misstatement.
we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial
statements of siemens aktiengesellschaft, berlin and munich,                    an audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit
and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated state-                    evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated
ments of income, comprehensive income, financial position,                      financial statements. the selection of audit procedures depends
cash flow and changes in equity, and notes to the consolidated                  on the auditor’s professional judgment. this includes the as-
financial statements for the business year from october 1, 2012                 sessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consoli-
to september 30, 2013.                                                          dated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. in
                                                                                assessing those risks, the auditor considers the internal con-
management’s responsibility for the                                             trol system relevant to the entity ’s preparation of the consoli-
­consolidated financial statements                                              dated financial statements that give a true and fair view. the
the management of siemens aktiengesellschaft is responsible                     aim of this is to plan and perform audit procedures that are
for the preparation of these consolidated financial statements.                 appropriate in the given circumstances. an audit also includes
this responsibility includes preparing these consolidated finan-                evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used
cial statements in accordance with international financial                      and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by
­reporting standards (ifrs) as adopted by the european union                    management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
(eu), the supplementary requirements of german law pursuant                     the consolidated financial statements.
to sec. 315a (1) hgb [“handelsgesetzbuch“: german commer-
cial code] and full ifrs as issued by the international account-                we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffi-
ing standards board (iasb), to give a true and fair view of the                 cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
net assets, financial position and results of operations of the
group in accordance with these requirements. the company ’s                     audit opinion
management is also responsible for the internal controls that                   pursuant to sec. 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we state that our audit
management determines are necessary to enable the prepara-                      of the consolidated financial statements has not led to any
tion of consolidated financial statements that are free from                    ­reservations.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
                                                                                in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consoli-
auditor’s responsibility                                                        dated financial statements comply in all material respects with
our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidat-                ifrs as adopted by the eu, the supplementary requirements of
ed financial statements based on our audit. we conducted our                    german commercial law pursuant to sec. 315a (1) hgb and full
audit in accordance with sec. 317 hgb and german generally                      ifrs as issued by the iasb and give a true and fair view of the
accepted standards for the audit of financial statements pro-                   net assets and financial position of the group as at september
mulgated by the institut der wirtschaftsprüfer [institute of                    30, 2013 as well as the results of operations for the business
public auditors in germany] (idw) as well as in supplementary                   year then ended, in accordance with these requirements.
compliance with international standards on auditing (isa).




253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements   357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                   359
                                                358   e.1   responsibility statement                  366   e.6   index
                                                359   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report            368   e.7   company structure
                                                361   e.3   statement of the ­managing board          370   e.8   further information and information resources
                                                362   e.4   five-year summary                         371   e.9   financial calendar
                                                364   e.5   glossary

      report on the group management report                                    pursuant to sec. 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we state that our audit
      we have audited the accompanying group management report,                of the group management report has not led to any reservations.
      which is combined with the management report of siemens
      aktiengesellschaft, for the business year from october 1, 2012           in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit of the con-
      to september 30, 2013. the management of the company is                  solidated financial statements and group management report,
      ­responsible for the preparation of the group management report          the group management report is consistent with the consoli-
       in compliance with the applicable requirements of german                dated financial statements, and as a whole provides a suitable
       commercial law pursuant to sec. 315a (1) hgb. we are required           view of the group’s position and suitably presents the opportu-
       to conduct our audit in accordance with sec. 317 (2) hgb and            nities and risks of future development.
       german generally accepted standards for the audit of the
       group management report promulgated by the idw. accord-                 munich, november 20, 2013
       ingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of the
       group management report to obtain reasonable assurance                  ernst & young gmbh
       about whether the group management report is consistent                 wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
       with the consolidated financial statements and the audit find-
       ings, and as a whole provides a suitable view of the group’s
       position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of
       future development.                                                     krämmer                          prof. dr. hayn
                                                                               wirtschaftsprüfer                wirtschaftsprüfer
                                                                               [german public auditor]          [german public auditor]




      92   a.   to our shareholders              117   b.   corporate ­governance                   155   c.   combined ­management report
360

e.3  statement of the managing board


the managing board of siemens aktiengesellschaft is respon-                     under their responsibility have confirmed to us the correctness
sible for preparing the consolidated financial statements and                   of the financial data they have reported to siemens’ corporate
the group management report. the consolidated financial                         headquarters and the effectiveness of the related control sys-
statements have been prepared in accordance with interna-                       tems. compliance with the guidelines as well as the reliability
tional financial reporting standards (ifrs), as adopted by the                  and effectiveness of the control systems are continuously ex-
european union as well as with the additional requirements                      amined by internal corporate audit throughout the siemens
set forth in section 315a (1) of the german commercial code                     group. our risk management system complies with the re-
(handelsgestzbuch). the financial statements are also in ac-                    quirements of the german corporation act (aktiengesetz). our
cordance with ifrs as issued by the international accounting                    risk management system is designed to enable the managing
standards board (iasb). the group management report is con-                     board to recognize potential risks early on and initiate timely
sistent with the consolidated financial statements and is com-                  countermeasures.
bined with the management report of siemens aktienge-
sellschaft.                                                                     in accordance with the resolution adopted at the annual
                                                                                shareholders’ meeting, ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprü-
siemens employs extensive internal controls, company-wide                       fungsgesellschaft has audited the consolidated financial
uniform reporting guidelines and additional measures, includ-                   statements and group management report, which is com-
ing employee training and continuing education, with the in-                    bined with the management report of siemens aktienge-
tention that the consolidated financial statements and the                      sellschaft, and issued an unqualified opinion. together with
group management report are conducted correctly and in ac-                      the independent auditors, the supervisory board has thor-
cordance with the applicable legal requirements. members of                     oughly examined the consolidated financial statements, the
the management of the sectors, divisions, financial services,                   group management report, and the independent auditors’ re-
cross-sector services, regional clusters and certain corporate                  port. the result of this examination is included in the report of
units, supported by certifications of management of entities                    the supervisory board ( a.3 of this annual report ).

munich, november 27, 2013

the managing board




joe kaeser                                                  dr. roland busch                                            klaus helmrich




prof. dr. hermann requardt                                  prof. dr. siegfried russwurm                                peter y. solmssen




dr. michael süß                                             dr. ralf p. thomas




253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements   357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                   361
                                                358   e.1   responsibility statement                  366   e.6   index
                                                359   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report            368   e.7   company structure
                                                361   e.3   statement of the ­managing board          370   e.8   further information and information resources
                                                362   e.4   five-year summary                         371   e.9   financial calendar
                                                364   e.5   glossary

      e.4  five-year summary



       revenue and profit 1, 2                                                                                                   fy 2013            fy 2012           fy 2011         fy 2010         fy 2009
       revenue                                                                                        in millions of €           75,882             77,395           72,526          67,862           68,726
       gross profit                                                                                   in millions of €           20,829             21,925           21,907          19,768           18,707
       income from continuing operations                                                              in millions of €            4,212              4,642            6,625            4,065           2,456
       net income                                                                                     in millions of €            4,409              4,282            5,899            3,881           2,448

       assets, liabilities and equity          2                                                                                 fy 2013            fy 2012           fy 2011         fy 2010         fy 2009
       current assets                                                                                 in millions of €           46,937             52,128           52,540          50,179           44,087
       current liabilities                                                                            in millions of €           37,868             42,627           43,549          40,602           36,510
       debt                                                                                           in millions of €           20,453             20,707           17,940          19,913           19,638
           long-term debt                                                                             in millions of €           18,509             16,880           14,280          17,497           18,940
       net debt 3                                                                                     in millions of €           10,663              9,292            4,995            5,560           9,309
       post-employment benefits                                                                       in millions of €            9,265              9,801            7,188            8,342           5,859
       equity (including non-controlling interests)                                                   in millions of €           28,625             31,424           32,271          29,222           27,351
           as a percentage of total assets                                                                         in %               28                  29              31               28              29
       total assets                                                                                   in millions of €         101,936             108,251         104,210          102,791           94,911

       cash flows 1, 2                                                                                                           fy 2013            fy 2012           fy 2011         fy 2010         fy 2009
       cash flows from operating activities – continuing operations                                   in millions of €            7,126              6,923            8,140            9,009           6,299
           amortization, depreciation and impairments 4                                               in millions of €            2,819              2,732            2,471            2,558           2,353
       cash flows from investing activities – continuing operations                                   in millions of €           (4,836)            (5,029)          (2,890)          (2,285)         (2,544)
        additions to intangible assets and property,
         plant and equipment                                                                          in millions of €           (1,869)            (2,195)          (2,151)          (1,932)         (2,126)
       cash flows from financing activities – continuing operations                                   in millions of €           (3,422)            (3,523)          (6,970)          (2,868)            (441)
       change in cash and cash equivalents                                                            in millions of €           (1,717)            (1,561)          (1,715)           4,023           3,275
       free cash flow – continuing operations                                                         in millions of €            5,257              4,727            5,989            7,077           4,172

       employees – continuing operations 1                                                                                       fy 2013            fy 2012           fy 2011         fy 2010         fy 2009
       employees (september 30)                                                                         in thousands                 362                 366             355             330              327

       stock market information                                                                                                  fy 2013            fy 2012           fy 2011         fy 2010         fy 2009
       basic earnings per share
       (continuing and discontinued operations) 2                                                                   in €            5.08                 4.74           6.55            4.28             2.59
       basic earnings per share (continuing operations) 1, 2                                                        in €            4.85                 5.15           7.37            4.50             2.61
       diluted earnings per share
       (continuing and discontinued operations) 2                                                                   in €            5.03                 4.69           6.48            4.23             2.57
       diluted earnings per share (continuing operations) 1, 2                                                      in €            4.80                 5.10           7.29            4.45             2.57
       dividend per share                                                                                           in €            3.005                3.00           3.00            2.70             1.60
       stock price range (xetra closing price)
           high                                                                                                     in €          90.33              79.71            99.38            79.37           66.45
           low                                                                                                      in €          76.00              63.06            64.45            60.20           35.52
           fiscal year-end                                                                                          in €          89.06              77.61            68.12            77.43           63.28
       performance of siemens shares year-over-year
           compared to dax®                                                                               in %-points               3.67            (12.57)             2.17           15.53             2.24
           compared to msci world                                                                         in %-points               2.55             (3.01)            (5.16)          18.53             1.86
       number of shares issued (september 30)                                                               in millions              881                 881             914             914              914
       market capitalization 6                                                                        in millions of €           75,078             66,455           59,554          67,351           54,827
       credit rating – long-term debt
           standard & poor’s                                                                                                          a+                  a+              a+               a+              a+
           moody’s investors service                                                                                                 aa3                 aa3              a1               a1              a1


              1 regarding activities classified as discontinued operations,          long-term debt as well as long-term debt. total liquidity          depreciation and impairments of property, plant and
                  prior years are presented on a comparable basis.                     comprises cash and cash equivalents as well as available-          equipment, net of reversals of impairments.
                                                                                       for-sale financial assets (current).
              2 adjusted for effects adopting ias 19r. prior years are                                                                             5 to be proposed to the annual shareholders’ meeting.
                  presented on a comparable basis.                                4 amortization, depreciation and impairments contains
                                                                                                                                                     6 on the basis of outstanding shares.
                                                                                      amortization and impairments, net of reversals of impair-
              3 net debt results from total debt less total liquidity. total
                                                                                      ments, of intangible assets other than goodwill as well as
                  debt comprises short-term debt and current maturities of




      92    a.    to our shareholders                                       117   b.      corporate ­governance                                    155    c.    combined ­management report
362

 quarterly data 1                                                                                                       fy 2013     4th quarter      3rd quarter     2nd quarter      1st quarter
 revenue                                                                                    in millions of €           75,882         21,168           19,009           17,779          17,925
 net income                                                                                 in millions of €                4,409         1,068            1,098           1,030            1,214

 quarterly data 1                                                                                                       fy 2012     4 quarter
                                                                                                                                     th
                                                                                                                                                     3 quarter
                                                                                                                                                      rd
                                                                                                                                                                     2 quarter
                                                                                                                                                                      nd
                                                                                                                                                                                      1 quarter
                                                                                                                                                                                       st


 revenue                                                                                    in millions of €           77,395         21,444           19,271           19,033          17,648
 net income                                                                                 in millions of €                4,282         1,191             770             938             1,383


       1   regarding activities classified as discontinued operations, prior periods are presented on a comparable basis.




253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements                      357   e.     additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                                    363
                                                                   358   e.1    responsibility statement                             366    e.6   index
                                                                   359   e.2    independent ­auditor ʼs report                       368    e.7   company structure
                                                                   361   e.3    statement of the m­ anaging board                    370    e.8    urther information and information resources
                                                                                                                                                  f
                                                                   362   e.4    five-year summary                                    371    e.9   financial calendar
                                                                   364   e.5    glossary

      e.5  glossary


            a                                                                                      d
      adjusted ebitda                 abbreviation for the performance measure              debt issuance program            a kind of framework agreement between com­
                                      »earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation                                         panies and traders of notes (usually banks),
                                      and amortization«. siemens defines adjusted                                            enabling a company to issue securities in the
                                      ebitda on group level as result of the follow­                                         capital market under predetermined terms and
                                      ing line items: income from continuing oper­                                           conditions, thus providing flexibility in raising
                                      ations before income taxes less financial                                              debt within a very short period of time.
                                      income (expenses), net (comprised of interest
                                                                                            derivatives / derivative          an instrument that derives its value from that
                                      expenses, interest income and other finan­
                                                                                            ­financial instruments            of an underlying instrument or index, is
                                      cial income (expenses), net) and less income
                                                                                                                             ­settled at a future date and often requires no
                                      (loss) from investments accounted for using
                                                                                                                              or a relatively low initial investment.
                                      the equity method, net (adjusted ebit), plus
                                      amorti­zation and depreciation and impair­            discontinued operations          a component of an entity that either has been
                                      ment of property, plant and equipment and                                              disposed of in the fiscal year or is classified as
                                      goodwill.                                                                              held for sale and represents a separate major
      american depositary             a u.s. dollar-denominated certificate issued                                           line of business or geographical area of opera­
      shares (adss) /                 by a u.s. bank, representing a share of a for­                                         tions; is part of a single coordinated plan to
      ­american depositary            eign-based company available for purchase                                              dispose of a separate major line of business
       receipts (adrs)                on an american stock exchange. the entire                                              or geographical area of operations; or is a
                                      issuance is called an american depositary                                              subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to
                                      receipt (adr) and the individual shares are                                            resale.
                                      referred to as adss.
      asset management                 the process of managing and controlling                     e
                                       company assets in order to enhance opera­            emerging markets                 economies that are not industrialized econo­
                                       tional efficiency in using these assets in                                            mies. siemens defines emerging market
                                      ­business operations.                                                                  countries in accordance with the international
                                                                                                                             monetary fund’s definition of “emerging
            c                                                                                                                ­market and developing economies”.

      captive finance unit            a financial services unit organized as a busi­
                                      ness within an industrial company that offers                f
                                      financial solutions primarily to customers of         free cash flow                   a measure of operative cash generation.
                                      the operating units of that company.                                                   siemens defines “free cash flow” as cash
      comfort letter                  a written statement prepared by an indepen­                                            flows from operating activities less additions
                                      dent auditor which expresses an opinion on                                             to intangible assets and property, plant and
                                      the results of certain audit procedures.                                               equipment.

      commercial paper                short-term debt instrument in the form of             functional costs                 functional costs comprise the following
                                      bearer bonds, issued in the money market by                                            line items: cost of sales, research and
                                      companies with strong credit ratings.                                                  ­development expenses, and selling and
                                                                                                                              ­general administrative expenses.
      commercial paper program program for the issuance of commercial papers
                               that can be drawn in different currencies.
                                                                                                   g
      compliance                      adherence to laws and to external and
                                                                                            german corporate                 drafted by a german government commission,
                                      ­internal guidance or codes of conduct.
                                                                                            ­governance code                 the german corporate governance code is a
      corporate treasury              a corporate unit responsible for financial                                             set of recommendations and suggestions for
                                      management, particularly relating to the                                               the good management and supervision of
                                      liquidity and cash management as well as                                               publicly listed companies.
                                      the financial risk management.
      credit rating                   standardized indicator for the assessment of
                                      issuers’ credit ratings; determined by special­
                                      ized agencies.




      92   a.   to our shareholders                           117   b.   corporate ­governance                         155    c.   combined ­management report
364

       h                                                                                         s
hybrid bond                       a corporate bond that, due to its characteris­          sensitivity analysis          analysis of effects of possible changes in
                                  tics such as long maturity date and subordi­                                          assumptions. it is used, for example, to estimate
                                  nation, bears the character of both debt and                                          how the defined benefit obligation is affected
                                  equity.                                                                               by decreasing / increasing discount rates.
                                                                                          supply chain management       comprises the planning and management
       o                                                                                                                of all processes in connection with supplier
                                                                                                                        selection, procurement and logistics.
operating net                     the net amount of inventories less advance
­working ­capital                 payments received plus trade and other
                                  receivables minus trade payables and minus                     w
                                  billings in excess of costs and estimated earn­
                                                                                          weighted average cost         the rate that a company is expected to pay
                                  ings on uncompleted contracts and related
                                                                                          of capital (wacc)             on average to all its providers of capital to
                                  advances.
                                                                                                                        finance its assets.
order backlog                     inventory of orders for goods and services
                                  based on binding contractual arrangements
                                  with customers.


       r
return on capital employed this key performance indicator shows how
(roce)                     efficiently a company works with the capital
                           of its shareholders and lenders.
risk management                   systematic process to identify and assess
                                  potential opportunities and risks and to select
                                  and implement response strategies with
                                  respect to these opportunities and risks.




253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements             357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                365
                                                          358   e.1   responsibility statement                    366    e.6   index
                                                          359   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report              368    e.7   company structure
                                                          361   e.3   statement of the ­managing board            370    e.8   further information and information resources
                                                          362   e.4   five-year summary                           371    e.9   financial calendar
                                                          364   e.5   glossary

      e.6  index


            a                                                                                e
      audit committee                         109, 120, 333, 350                      earnings per share                             173, 182, 231, 254, 265, 326
      audiology solutions                     161                                     economic environment                           166
                                                                                      emerging countries                             83, 166, 180, 227
            b                                                                         employees                                      84, 221, 248
      bsh bosch und siemens hausgeräte                                                energy                                         4, 157, 168, 171, 183, 228, 327
      gmbh (bsh)                              165, 189, 289                           energy service                                 158
      building technologies                   164, 170, 189, 230                      energy solutions                               4
      business and economic environment       156                                     environmental portfolio                        82, 218
                                                                                      environmental protection                       220
            c                                                                         equity and employee stock committee            354
      capital resources and requirements      198                                     equity investments                             164, 189, 327
      capital structure                       85, 174, 193
      chairman’s committee                    108, 119, 350                                  f
      climate change                          15, 82, 170, 218                        finance and investment committee               109, 121, 351
      clinical products                       160                                     financial calendar                             371
      code of ethics                          118                                     financial performance system                   85, 173
      collective action                       127, 225                                financial position                             192, 247
      combined management report              155                                     financial services                             165, 189, 230, 327
      company structure                       368                                     five-year summary                              362
      company ’s values                       125, 170
      compensation report                     129                                            g
      compliance                              126, 224                                globalization                                  51, 170
      compliance committee                    108, 120, 351
      compliance report                       126                                            h
      consolidated financial statements       253                                     healthcare                                     22, 160, 169, 172, 185, 228, 327
      consolidated statements of cash flows   257                                     healthcare solutions                           22
      consolidated statements of
      changes in equity                       258                                            i
      consolidated statements of                                                      imaging & therapy systems                      160
      ­comprehensive income                   255                                     independent auditors’ report                   359
      consolidated statements of                                                      industry                                       161, 169, 172, 186, 229, 327
      financial ­position                     256                                     industry automation                            162, 169, 187, 229
      consolidated statements of income       254                                     industry solutions                             40
      continuing education                    84, 171, 223, 248                       infrastructure & cities                        60, 163, 170, 172, 187, 229, 327
      corporate governance report             118                                     infrastructure solutions                       60
      corporate governance statement          124                                     integrity initiative                           127, 225
      credit rating                           113, 194, 304                           inventions                                     213
      customer focus                          83, 171, 217                            investing activities                           195
      customer services (industry)            162                                     investor relations                             111
      customer solutions (healthcare)         160
                                                                                             k
            d                                                                         key account management                         217
      demographic change                      33, 170, 222                            key figures fiscal 2013                        88
      diagnostics                             160, 185
      diversity                               84, 222                                        l
      dividend                                112, 175, 232                           legal proceedings                              306
      drive technologies                      162, 169, 187, 229                      letter to our shareholders                     92
                                                                                      low and medium voltage                         164




      92   a.     to our shareholders                   117   b.   corporate ­governance                         155   c.   combined ­management report
366

       m                                                                                           s
management and control structure                118                                       service business                                    83, 171
managing board of siemens ag                    98, 352                                   share ownership guidelines                          114, 131, 144
medanta – the medicity                          22                                        share-based payment                                 323
mediation committee                             108, 121, 351                             siemens business conduct guidelines                 211, 223, 225
mobility and logistics                          163                                       siemens real estate                                 189, 327
                                                                                          siemens share                                       112
       n                                                                                  smart                                               83, 243
net assets position                             204, 247                                  smart grid                                          164
nokia siemens networks b.v. (nsn)               165, 182, 189, 275                        statement of the managing board                     361
nominating committee                            108, 120, 351                             strategy                                            80, 170
notes and forward-looking statements            250                                       subsequent events                                   209, 249
notes to consolidated                                                                     supervisory board                                   348
financial statements                            260                                       sustainability                                      210


       o                                                                                           t
one siemens                                     80, 171, 173                              transportation & logistics                          163, 170,188, 229
open innovation                                 212
orders                                          178, 179, 329                                      u
osram licht ag                                  113, 165, 276                             urbanization                                        73, 170
overall assessment of
the economic ­position                          207                                                v
                                                                                          vision                                              80, 170
       p
patent applications                             213                                                w
portfolio management                            82, 171                                   wind power                                          158, 169, 184, 228
power generation                                158, 228
power grid solutions & products                 163, 170, 189, 230
power plant modernization kirishi               2
power transmission                              158, 169, 185, 228
profitability and capital efficiency            173, 231, 232


       r
rail systems                                    163
related party transactions                      330
report of the supervisory board                 102
report on expected developments
and associated material opportunities
and risks                                       227
research and development                        211
responsibility statement                        358
results of operations                           179, 246
results of siemens                              179
revenue growth                                  85, 173
risk management                                 232




253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements             357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                    367
                                                          358   e.1   responsibility statement                         366   e.6   index
                                                          359   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report                   368   e.7   company structure
                                                          361   e.3   statement of the ­managing board                 370   e.8   further information and information resources
                                                          362   e.4   five-year summary                                371   e.9   financial calendar
                                                          364   e.5   glossary

      e.7  company structure


             managing board of siemens ag

      joe kaeser                                  roland busch                                      klaus helmrich                                   hermann requardt
      president and
      chief executive officer
                                                  infrastructure & cities                           human resources                                  healthcare
      ­corporate
      ­development                                 corporate                                        corporate technology                             south america, japan
                                                  ­sustainability office
      governance & markets
                                                  asia (excluding japan),
      ­communications and
                                                  australia
       government affairs

      legal and compliance




             sectors

      energy                                                     healthcare                                                       industry
      michael süß                                                hermann requardt                                                 siegfried russwurm


      energy service  randy zwirn                                clinical products  britta fünfstück                              customer services  dirk hoke

      power generation  roland fischer                           customer solutions  norbert gaus                                 drive technologies  ralf-michael franke

      power transmission  karlheinz springer                     diagnostics  michael reitermann                                  industry automation  anton sebastian huber

      wind power  markus tacke                                   imaging & therapy systems  bernd montag




             regional organization by reporting region

      americas                                                   asia, australia                                                  europe, c.i.s.,1
                                                                                                                                  africa, middle east
      brazil  paulo ricardo stark                                australia  jeffery connolly                                      austria  wolfgang hesoun

      canada  robert hardt                                       china  lothar herrmann                                           belgium  andré bouffioux

      colombia  daniel fernandez                                 india  sunil mathur                                              czech republic  eduard palisek

      mexico  louise koopman goeser                              indonesia  josef winter                                          france  christophe de maistre

      united states  eric spiegel                                japan  junichi obata                                             germany  rudolf martin siegers

                                                                 republic of korea  jongkap kim                                   italy  federico vilfredo golla

                                                                 singapore  armin bruck                                           netherlands  ab van der touw




             1   commonwealth of independent states




      92   a.    to our shareholders                           117   b.     corporate ­governance                      155   c.      combined ­management report
368

siegfried russwurm                                         michael süß                                      ralf p. thomas

industry                                                   energy                                           finance and controlling

corporate supply chain                                     north america,                                   financial services
management                                                 middle east
                                                                                                            siemens real estate
information technology
                                                                                                            global shared services
corporate security office
                                                                                                            equity investments
europe, c.i.s.,1 africa




                                                                                                             cross-sector activities

infrastructure & cities
roland busch


building technologies  johannes milde                                                                  financial services  roland chalons-browne

low and medium voltage  ralf christian                                                                 global shared services  michel e. de zeeuw

mobility and logistics  sami atiya                                                                     siemens real estate  zsolt sluitner

rail systems  jochen eickholt

smart grid  jan mrosik




poland  peter baudrexl                              switzerland  siegfried gerlach

portugal  carlos melo ribeiro                       turkey  hüseyin gelis

russian federation  dietrich möller                 united arab emirates  dietmar siersdorfer

saudi arabia  arja talakar                          united kingdom  roland aurich

south africa  sigi proebstl

spain  rosa maría garcía

sweden  ulf troedsson




                                                                                                                                                                 as of january 1, 2014
                                                                                                                                    the members of the supervisory board are listed in
                                                                                                                        d.7 supervisory board and managing board , pages 348-349.




  253   d.     consolidated ­financial statements           357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                                         369
                                                            358   e.1   responsibility statement                       366    e.6   index
                                                            359   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report                 368    e.7   company structure
                                                            361   e.3   statement of the m­ anaging board              370    e.8    urther information and information resources
                                                                                                                                    f
                                                            362   e.4   five-year summary                              371    e.9   financial calendar
                                                            364   e.5   glossary

      e.8  further information and information resources


      further information on the contents                                           copies of the annual report can be ordered at:
      of this annual report is available from:                                      e-mail      siemens@bek-gmbh.de
      address	siemens ag                                                           internet       www.siemens.com/order-annualreport

                  wittelsbacherplatz 2                                              fax         + 49 7237 - 1736
                  80333 munich
                  germany
                                                                                    siemens employees may obtain copies at:
      phone           + 49 89 636 - 33443 (media relations)                         intranet   	h t tps://intranet.siemens.com/
                      + 49 89 636 - 32474 (investor relations)                                    order-annualreport

      fax             + 49 89 636 - 30085 (media relations)                         english    order no. a19100-f-v100-x-7600
                      + 49 89 636 - 32830 (investor relations)                      german     order no. a19100-f-v100
      e-mail          press@siemens.com
                      investorrelations@siemens.com                                 employees should include their postal address and ­complete
                                                                                    order data (org-id and cost center information) when ordering.

      additional information
      the siemens annual report for 2013 is available online at:                    concept and coordination
           www.siemens.com/annual-report                                            communications and government affairs
                                                                                    dr. johannes von karczewski
                                                                                    annette häfelinger
      combined reporting
      this siemens annual report combines our previously separate                   finance and controlling
      annual and sustainability reports to provide an integrated                    dr. marcus mayer
      overview of our company’s key topics. further information
      on siemens’ commitment to sustainability and additional
      indicators are available at:                                                  layout / production
           www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y                                          hw.design gmbh
           www.siemens.com/sustainabilit y-figures                                  publicis münchen, zn der pww gmbh

      in addition to an annual report at the end of each fiscal year,
      siemens publishes quarterly consolidated financial statements                 copyright notice
      in the form of press releases. conference calls and press con-                designations used in this document may be trademarks,
      ferences supplement these reports, giving journalists and                     the use of which by third parties for their own purposes could
      analysts further opportunities to review developments in our                  violate the rights of the trademark owners.
      businesses. financial reporting for the first three quarters is
      complemented by extensive interim reports. these reports
      are submitted to deutsche börse and the u.s. securities and                   ecofriendly production
      exchange commission (sec), among other organizations.                         this annual report has been produced using chlorine-free
      siemens also provides the sec with the annual report on                       bleached materials and climate-neutral production processes.
      form 20-f. all these financial reports are available at:                      in accordance with the guidelines of the forest stewardship
           www.siemens.com/financial-reports                                        council (fsc), all the paper used in this annual report comes
                                                                                    from controlled sources such as sustainable forests. the mill
      information on research, development and innovation at                        in which the paper was produced is certified in accordance
      siemens is available at:                                                      with iso 9001, 14001 and 18001 guidelines. it uses only
           www.siemens.com/innovation                                               ­chlorine-free bleached pulps (ecf), which are subsequently
                                                                                     processed without the use of elemental chlorine.
      the siemens publication pictures of the future:
      the magazine for research and innovation is available at:
           www.siemens.com/pof                                                      © 2013 by siemens ag, berlin and munich




      92    a.   to our shareholders                  117   b.   corporate ­governance                   155   c.   combined ­management report
370

e.9  financial calendar 1




28
first-quarter
                       january
                       2014                            28
                                                       annual shareholders’
                                                                           january
                                                                           2014


financial report                                       ­meeting for fiscal 2013




29
ex-dividend date
                       january
                       2014                            08
                                                       second-quarter
                                                                            may
                                                                            2014


                                                       financial report




31
third-quarter
                      july
                      2014                             06
                                                       preliminary figures
                                                                            november
                                                                            2014


financial report                                       for fiscal 2014




27
annual shareholders’
                      january
                      2015


­meeting for fiscal 2014




       1 provisional. updates will be published at:
             www.siemens.com/financial-calendar




253   d.   consolidated ­financial statements             357   e.    additional ­information
                                                                                                                                                                      371
                                                          358   e.1   responsibility statement           366   e.6   index
                                                          359   e.2   independent ­auditor ʼs report     368   e.7   company structure
                                                          361   e.3   statement of the ­managing board   370   e.8   further information and information resources
                                                          362   e.4   five-year summary                  371   e.9   financial calendar
                                                          364   e.5   glossary

                                                                                                                                                   order no. a19100-f-v100-x-7600




for 166 years, siemens has stood for innovative strength, a passion    energy, healthcare, industry and infrastructure & cities. in fiscal 2013,
for technology, sustainability, responsibility and an uncompromising   our roughly 362,000 employees generated revenue from continuing
commitment to quality and excellence. as a globally operating tech­    operations of about €75.9 billion and income from continuing oper­
nology company, we’re rigorously leveraging the advantages that        ations of about €4.2 billion – further proof that we’re thinking for the
our setup provides. to tap business opportunities in both new and      long term and providing answers for the challenges of our time.
established markets, we’ve organized our company into four sectors:




                                                                                                                   siemens.com /annual-report
