sustainability report 2012
pakistan




                      www.siemens.com.pk

contents

3    message from the md

4    sustainability and siemens values

5    sustainability at siemens

6    “the crystal” in london, a sustainable city initiative by siemens

8    siemens environmental portfolio

9    study tours and visits

10   sustainability at siemens pakistan

12   corporate citizenship as a cornerstone of sustainability

13   siemens promotes importance of transparent and compliant market
     behavior through collective action at pgbf

14   long-term support for disaster victims
     flood relief at siemens pakistan

16   smart grid: bringing knowledge to power




                                                                         1

2

                              message from the md

  “we embody all the principles of
 our global sustainability initiative
including transparency and ethical
        business conduct”
at siemens sustainable business means long-term success and proﬁtable growth. our
sustainability efforts are based on operating as a responsible company that acts in the
interests of its employees and society as well as the environment. through our portfo-
lio we address the key challenges of our century. our solutions help our customers
achieve their business goals while meeting global challenges such as urbanization,
demographic change, climate change and globalization.

siemens pakistan is located in a dynamic region because it is estimated that while the
emerging regions of asia/ paciﬁc and africa/ middle east provide only about 32% of
today’s global economic output, they will contribute 50% of growth by 2020. this
places huge responsibility on our shoulders to conduct our business in a manner that
it contributes to sustainability in society.

siemens in pakistan embodies all the principles of our global sustainability initiative
including transparency and ethical business conduct. we have initiated collective
action to ﬁght corruption with other companies and stakeholders. a recent presentati-
on at pakistan german business forum reafﬁrmed our commitment to this cause.

corporate citizenship is the term that captures siemens‘commitment to making a
positive and lasting contribution to the societies that we operate in. we focus our acti-
vities on the areas “education & science”, “social” and “environment”.

siemens pakistan contribution towards disaster management in the ﬂoods in 2010 and
2011 has been acclaimed by all shades and opinions and reﬂect our commitment to
the country. in this report you can read about this and other efforts towards promo-
ting sustainability in the country.

it is my pleasure to present to you our sustainability report for 2012.

guenter zwickl
md and ceo




                                                                                     3

sustainability and
siemens values
as our history shows, our understanding of
sustainability is closely linked to our company values
– responsible, excellent, innovative. from the very
ﬁrst, werner von siemens insisted that his company
fulﬁll its responsibilities to its employees, to society
and to nature. to achieve excellence, to capture
leading positions in the markets of tomorrow, to
develop innovative technologies that help ensure
the future viability of modern civilization – this has
always been our vision and our challenge.



                                                                            the three areas of sustainable
                                                                            development –
                                                                            environment, business
                                                                            and society- govern all our
                                                                            activities




                                             environment                    society




                                                           sustainability




                                                              business




            to achieve excellence, to capture leading positions
            in the markets of tomorrow, to develop innovative
           technologies that help ensure the future viability of
           modern civilization – this has always been our vision
                            and our challenge.
  4

sustainability at siemens

megatrends – demographic change, urbanization, climate change and globalization
– are affecting and deﬁning lives and economies throughout the world. these game-
changing forces are shaping our business by creating new markets and opening up
valuable new opportunities. yet they also harbor signiﬁcant risks that need careful
management. alone a value-based, sustainability-driven company committed to
living its principles can minimize these risks and master these challenges to
optimally leverage emerging opportunities for its stakeholders.

we’ve made the three areas of sustainable development –
         environment, business and society –
         the cornerstone of all our activities.
principles of sustainability
sustainability these days is a buzzword used in many different contexts with many
different connotations. but what does it mean for a multinational company? we at
siemens don’t just talk about sustainability.

acting responsibly for a successful future
in the area of the environment, we’re providing innovative products and solutions
to improve both our own ecobalance and those of our customers and suppliers. in
the area of business, we’re focusing on long-term value creation. and in the area of
society, we’re fostering our own employees and striving to be good citizens in all
the communities in which we are active.

although decisions in these areas are not always free of conﬂicting interests, we
aim to make all them transparent and to ﬁnd the best solutions possible. the
responsible use of natural resources, targeted investments in future-oriented
technologies that support proﬁtable growth while offering customers competitive
advantages, and a company ethic that goes beyond mere compliance with the law
and places integrity at the center of business operations – these are the factors
enabling us to drive sustainable development and to lay the basis for our company’s
successful future.
                                         seize opportunities



                                                                 minimize risks




                                                           embody values

 - our understanding of sustainability




                                                                                  5

“the crystal” in london,
a sustainable city initiative by siemens
everything about the future of cities and the cities of the future




                    above – world’s largest exhibition dedicated
                    to the future of cities.
                    right – the crystal- shaped building will
                    serve as a conference center, urban dialogue
                    platform and technology and innovation
                    center all in one.




                     siemens ceo peter löscher

“the development of our planet will stand or fall
with the development of cities. looking ahead to
 the urban future, the crystal showcases a wide
variety of opportunities and concrete solutions.”

 6

the crystal —
“a sustainable cities initiative by siemens”

the crystal – “a sustainable cities initiative by siemens” opened its doors on
september 19, 2012. the new center for sustainable urban development in london’s
east end houses the world’s largest exhibition devoted to sustainability within cities,
a conference center featuring an auditorium seating around 270 people, plus
workspace for siemens employees and external urban development experts from
around the globe. designed as one of the most sustainable buildings in the world,
the crystal aspires to the best possible certiﬁcation for sustainability in
construction, “leed platinum” and “breeam outstanding”.

in creating the crystal, siemens has established a fascinating venue, a meeting-
place for the dissemination of knowledge. it is intended as a forum not just for
international urban development experts, planners, architects and customers from
the infrastructure ﬁeld, but also interested citizens, students or schoolchildren, to
discuss global trends, to get to know the latest technical developments and to share
their experiences.

the unique exhibition area embraces topics such as water, trafﬁc, environmental
protection, urban planning and management, energy, buildings and lighting, safety,
security and healthcare. each “zone” features appealing, multimedia displays
illustrating the challenges and trends associated with cities, technological solutions
and existing case studies from cities around the world. finally, the “future life”
gallery shows what sustainable cities could look like in the middle of the century.
the crystal is also home to the global “center of competence (coc) cities”, where
urban development experts both from siemens’ infrastructure & cities sector and
other organizations collaborate as part of a “think tank” for sustainable urban
development.




   at the heart of the crystal is the world›s largest
     exhibition dedicated to the future of cities.
      covering 2000 sq. meters, the interactive
      exhibition will guide visitors through the
   urban infrastructure of the future, focusing on
   possibilities for sustainable mobility, building
    technologies, power and water supplies, and
                      healthcare.”



                                                                                   7

siemens environmental portfolio
power plants that generate electricity from
the sun, factories and buildings that
consume only small amounts of power, fast
eco-friendly trains – our environmental
portfolio is helping make the world a better
place to live both today and in the future.



                                                         power transmission and distribution
                                                         our advanced power transmission systems enable low-
                                                         loss power transmission of e.g. green electricity from
                                                         offshore wind farms. with smard grid technologies we
                                                         increase energy system efﬁciency - a crucial factor in
                                                         sustainable energy management.


            renewable energies
we’re steadily expanding our position in the dynamic
renewables market - with innovative wind turbines that
rank among the most realiable in the world, with hydro
technology and with steam turbines for biomass
plants.

                                                                   fossil power generation
                                                         our innovative technologies generate more electricity
                                                         from less fuel. we boost the efﬁciency of coal- and gas-
                                                         ﬁred power generation and provide technologies for
                                                         low-carbon fossil power generation.




             industry solutions
with our end-to-end automation technologies and a
comprehensive array of industry solutions, we’re
increasing the productivity and ﬂexibility of our
customers in the industry and infrastructure segments.

                                                                     building automation
                                                         we’re the preferred partner when it comes to
                                                         maximizing energy efﬁciency in buildings and
                                                         optimally protecting people and infrastructures. our
                                                         portfolio comprises products, solutions and services for
                                                         building automation, ﬁre safety, security and power
                                                         distribution.

                     mobility
by networking transportation systems more effectively,
our integration solutions for intermodal transport,
trafﬁc management, postal automation and airport
logstics are making the movement of people and goods
more efﬁcient and environmentally compatible.



                                                                             healthcare
                                                         demographic change poses massive challenges for the
                                                         world’s healthcare systems. our innovative
                                                         technologies enables healthcare professionals to detect
   8                                                     illnesses early on and provide patients with optimal
                                                         and affordable treatment from the outset.

study tours and visits
study tours and visits to siemens industrial complex are conducted each year for students
across pakistan, professionals in the industry, policy makers, investors, ofﬁcials of public
utilities and technical branches of the armed forces of pakistan and their afﬁliated institutes.
for the engineering universities, technical institutions and technical branches of the armed
forces of pakistan this visit forms part of their curriculum.




                                                                                               9

sustainability at siemens pakistan
we adhere to the global siemens view of
sustainability by living our values, preserving the
environment and by leading by example in the
areas of corporate citizenship. our landmark                       airport solutions
projects in the country are living proof of our
commitment to sustainability. here are some of                     green technology optimizes
our sustainable projects that have been
implemented in pakistan.                                           energy and lowers costs
                                                                   the ﬁrst ever green ﬁeld airport constructed in pakistan,
                                                                   the benazir bhutto airport has siemens green portfolio in
                                                                   the form of low energy led-based airﬁeld light ﬁxture in
                                                                   place of conventional halogen lamps, halogen lamp has a
                                                                   lifespan of about 1000 to 4000 hours, led lights are known
                                                                   to have much longer life-spans ranging from 56,000 to
                                                                   100,000 hours thus the need to replace led lights would be
                                                                   drastically minimized, which in turn would reduce lighting
                                                                   costs. this green technology aims to optimize energy using
                                                                   low energy led based afl ﬁxture and introducing ups for
                                                                   catering critical loads for cat-ii operations. the ups redu-
                                                                   ces operating time of generating sets and consequently op-
                                                                   timizes fuel consumption. the energy consumption is esti-



                       50%
                                                                   mated to be 50% lower, subsequently lowering the mainte-
                                                                   nance costs. moreover deployment of air field lighting
                                                                   control systems (alcs) for all airﬁeld ground lighting (
                                                                   agl) equipment installed on the airﬁeld to ensure control
             lower energy consumption                              and monitoring functionalities for visual aids to enhance
                                                                   safety, efﬁciency, maintainability and reliability of airside
healthcare solutions                                               operations.
efﬁcient early detection saves lives
al razi healthcare is a state-of-the-art medical diagnostic
center in lahore that aims to revolutionize diagnostic ima-
ging services, many of which were not previously available
from a single source anywhere else in pakistan. the center
is a ﬁrst step towards establishing a premium-class facility
that offers the full range of imaging and diagnostics servi-
ces. siemens installed an impressive array of medical sys-
tems that cover both state-of-the art diagnostic radiology
services and clinical laboratories designed to meet interna-
tional standards. the equipment includes the ﬁrst large-bo-
re 1.5t mri scanner to be installed in the private sector in
pakistan, the magnetom espree, and a somatom deﬁniti-
on dual-source ct scanner. with a special focus on women›s
health and mother-and-child care, this is ﬁrst center in the
country to offer a full-ﬁeld digital mammography system,



                                                                               97%
the mammomat inspiration, as well as the acuson s2000
ultrasound system for the gynecology and obstetrics discip-
lines. together with the multix units and x-class color
doppler units installed in the facility›s two satellite clinics,
the siemens technology implemented here ensures the                        recyclable material
availability of state-of-the art diagnostic radiology services
in this growing country. by saving 50% in energy consump-
tion and using 97% recyclable material, the technology pro-
mises patient comfort while having lower operating costs
and better image quality making it the most suitable for
customers.

  10

                                                                building solutions

                                                                smart building technologies lower
                                                                costs, ensure comfort and secure
                                                                against failure
                                                                dolmen mall at sea view karachi is the biggest mall in paki-
                                                                stan with attractive architecture and ambiance. spread over
                                                                three massive levels, it offers one-stop facility of retail and
                                                                departmental stores, food court and restaurants, exhibition
                                                                halls, in-door amusement park, day care center and a co-
                                                                vered parking for 1600 vehicles. the technology is equally
                                                                impressive. siemens offered a uniquely devised solution for
                                                                the safety and security of one million square feet area, ener-
                                                                gy conservation and distribution management for 12 mw
                                                                power and automation for hvac system. all the offered sys-
                                                                tems are integrated with building management system to
                                                                give maximum conservation of resources. these building



                           1m
                   sq. ft of area uses this
                                                                management systems are optimally matched so you proﬁt
                                                                not only from minimized installation and operating costs,
                                                                but from a high level of security against failure as well. this
                                                                is a ﬁrst step towards the desired status of this being a
                                                                green building in the future.
                         technology
energy automation solutions
high performance energy
management systems are the
smartest route to more
productivity
pakistan’s ﬁrst ever state-of-the-art load dispatch center
upgrade project for the karachi electric supply company
(kesc) included construction of the complete load dispatch
center, which incorporates a scada energy management
system, the remote terminal unit (rtu) and adaptation
works, as well as the telecommunications infrastructure. a
centralised control system, which uses a siemens sinaut
spectrum, was installed in the kesc load dispatch center to
monitor and control the entire transmission network. the
system allows all switching operations to be managed ef-



                                                                            16m
ﬁciently, thus helping operating staff to identify unexpec-
ted network modiﬁcations and to prevent errors that could
potentially harm staff or damage equipment. a wall-sized
monitor allows staff to keep an eye on the entire transmissi-
on network and to take immediate action in the event of           is the number of electricity
network breakdowns. the equipment installed reduces the
switching time required to control the overall system load,             users in the city
thus minimising outages and load shedding. the centra-
lised control system ensures efﬁcient load management in
addition to providing other network control features, such
as network planning, modeling, fault analysis, unit commit-
ment, contingency analysis, load forecasting and energy
management.




                                                                                                                          11

corporate citizenship as a cornerstone
of sustainability
corporate citizenship is very close to our heart here at sie-
mens pakistan. our accomplishments in this ﬁeld motivate
and drive our employees who feel proud to be working for a
company that lives up to its social responsibilities. siemens
was in the forefront of the 2005 earthquake relief efforts and
was again seen as a leader in the devastating ﬂoods that hit
the country in 2010 and 2011. it is not only our efforts in
times of distress but our daily commitment to corporate citi-
zenship that makes us stand out. our valuable resources are
utilized to conduct study visits for university students to our
industrial complex as well as the technical branches of the
armed forces of pakistan and management trainees from dif-
ferent government departments. internships offered to uni-
                                                                                  above – with contributions ﬂowing in from the
versity students help them complete projects essential for                        siemens family world wide, an amount of 2.5m euros
their courses and our internship program trains young peo-                        was contributed towards ﬂood relief of pakistan.
ple to become useful members of society. our interaction                          below – compliance, which is understood to mean
with universities like the recent smart grid seminars impart                      adherence to all applicable laws and regulations and
valuable knowledge to students preparing them for the chal-                       the company’s internal rules and regulations, is the
lenges facing the country. here are some examples of our                          basis for all our business activities of siemens.
corporate citizenship efforts.




                                                        collective action for a sustainable
                                                        society
                                                        siemens pakistan is committed to the ideals of compliance and transparency
                                                        in its business dealings. as part of a project to bring together all stake hol-
                                                        ders for collective action the company organizes various events. one such
                                                        event was a presentation at the pakistan german business forum where sie-
                                                        mens ofﬁcials made a presentation calling on the business community to
                                                        come together for joint action against bribery and corruption. more such
                                                        events are planned in the near future.


  12

siemens promotes importance of
transparent and compliant market behavior
through collective action at pgbf
corruption is a widespread menace that affects not only the developing countries but the world at
large. funds available for public welfare are drained through corruption and therefore not available
for investments in infrastructure. preventing corruption and violations of fair competition is a high
priority for siemens. the company›s boundaries for ﬁghting corruption extend beyond the company
by jointly engaging with other stakeholders through collective action




                                                                                                        13

long-term support for disaster victims
flood relief at siemens pakistan




            above – siemens installed 5 ﬁltration plants that
            supply clean drinking water to districts struck by
            the ﬂoods of 2010 and 2011. clean water is now
            available to ﬁve districts including a school and a
            hospital.
            right – with temperatures soaring to 45 degrees
            celsius in these areas during the summer, this
            easily available clean water is saving lives and
            reducing the threat of water borne diseases for a
            sustainable period of time.




14

               50,000
           liters of drinking water puriﬁed by siemens memb-                                                 8,000
           rane ﬁlters are available to ﬂood victims in pakistan                                        people are drinking clean water everyday that
           in the next 10 years                                                                        includes school going children. the plants also
                                                                                                                   serve as ﬁlling stations




                                                                            40
                                                   ﬂood affected families will be beneﬁtting with a means for income
                                                    from the vocational center set up at the model village in sajawal



pakistan was struck by ﬂoods in 2010 and than again in                           and hospital as well. the ﬁltration plants at the schools and
2011. floodwaters were so overpowering that whatever                             hospital will also serve as ﬁlling stations for adjoining villa-
infrastructure had existed in the affected rural areas was                       ges.
completely wiped out. siemens rose to the challenge and
provided relief in terms of food, shelter and help to                            clean drinking water is now available to approximately
support infrastructure in the ﬂood hit areas. 34 diesel                          400,000 people. every day, approximately 50,000 liters of
generating sets were given to the army to ensure that                            water from these plants save lives by preventing waterbor-
medical camps, de-watering operations and mobile                                 ne diseases.
hospitals had a steady power supply. later, these dg sets
were permanently installed in hospitals located in
different affected areas and are currently providing
power to 3 million patients on average every year . as a
last project in our relief efforts we have recently
completed installation of ﬁve water ﬁltration plants in
the hardest hit areas


clean water saves lives
siemens pakistan installed ﬁve water ﬁltration plants in vil-
lages affected by the ﬂoods. two of these plants were ins-
talled in sujawal; one plant in civil hospital sujawal and the
other in govt.boys high school sujawal. the three remai-
ning were installed at belo goth m.khan bijoro, village ae-
lomallah near sujawal and at high school chur jamali.

each water ﬁltration plant can purify 10,000 liters of water
everyday thus providing clean drinking water to thousands
of people in these areas, who were otherwise under major
threat of contracting water borne diseases. the installation
of these water ﬁltration plants will greatly help in reducing
such diseases and save countless lives. according to the po-                     help for women vocational centre
pulation impacted, these plants are providing clean water to
over 8,000 people ever day. these plants which will require                      once the water receded, ﬂood victims started going back to
little maintenance have a life span of 10 years.                                 their homes. pakistan navy constructed houses for some fa-
                                                                                 milies in sujawal and siemens decided to partly fund a wo-
the villagers, school masters and hospital staff were trained                    men vocational center at a model village for these families.
by siemens engineers for the proper maintenance of these                         handicrafts and other traditional items made by women at
plants and were explained the advantages and need of this                        this center will later be sold to different markets and dis-
facility to be readily available to them. this facility will be                  played as exhibits at traditional events providing a means of
available to children not only at home but at their school                       income for these families.




                                                                                                                                                         15

                                                                        knowledge sharing with students on smart grid
smart grid:                                                             a series of seminars were held in various universities
bringing knowledge                                                      to share knowledge on smart grid and renewable
                                                                        energy solutions to help students better understand
to power                                                                the energy problems in the country and ﬁnd sustain-
                                                                        able solutions. two such seminars were held at meh-
                                                                        ran university of engineering and technology and
                                                                        lums (lahore university of management sciences).
                                                                        for these seminars dr. michael schwan - head of net-
                                                                        work consultancy siemens pti (power technologies
                                                                        international), germany had specially ﬂown in to share
                                                                        latest knowledge with pakistani students.

                                                                        at both mehran university and lums the faculty was
                                                                        very grateful to the siemens pakistan team for the dis-
                                                                        cussions which helped the students and faculty to bet-
                                                                        ter understand the energy problems and their solu-
                        what is a smart grid?                           tions.

                 smart grid is an intelligent, self-monitoring          smart grid laboratory at lums
                 highly automated power supply network that
                 is easier to control and monitor than a conven-
                                                                        siemens and lums (lahore university of management
                 tional power grid. in addition, smart grids are        sciences) have also principally agreed on the concept
                 equipped with innovative information and com-          of establishing a smart grid laboratory in lahore which
                 munication technology to enable consistent
                                                                        will be open to siemens experts, ntdc ( national
                 data ﬂow between the point where power is ge-
                 nerated and the consumer, and vice versa. un-          transmission and distribution company) and discos (
                 like conventional power supply networks, whe-          distribution companies)engineers and sse students.
                 re power generation is based on consumption,           this lab will serve as a platform for ntdc/discos to
                 smart grids also control consumption, depen-
                 ding on the availability of electricity in the grid.   bring their challenges, siemens to share technological
                                                                        systems, where as lums sse engineers to develop
                                                                        smart grid solutions customized to local requirements.




     above – today’s power grids aren’t at their
     limit yet. but with an additional 63% increase
     by 2030, they deﬁnitely will be stretched well
     beyond their capacities
     right – smart grids are essential to ensure a
16   safe supply of electricity worldwide – where                                                                             16
     demand will grow massively in the years to
     come


siemens (pakistan) engineering co. ltd.
uan: 111-077-088


karachi                               quetta                            dubai branch
head ofﬁce,                           55-b, chaman housing scheme,      al waha community building,
b-72 estate avenue, s.i.t.e,          airport road,                     ofﬁce no. 1 & 8, 2nd floor,
karachi- 75700.                       quetta-87300.                     near deira international school,
phone: +9221-32574910-19 | 32592000   phone: +9281-2831311-12           nad al hamar road,
uan: +9221-111-077-088                fax:    +9281-2831313             p.o.box no. 325,
fax:   +9221-32563563, 32566218                                         res al khor, dubai,
                                      lahore                            uae.
siemens learning centre               15-a, state life building ,       phone: +97104-2898071-75
ofﬁce wing suite no 209(b),           davis road,                       fax:    +97104-2898056
2nd floor, park tower,                p.o.box no. 293,
shahra-e-firdousi, clifton,           lahore-54000.                     afghanistan branch
karachi-75600.                        phone: +9242- 6278758-67          house no. 635,
phone: +9221 35876391                 uan: +9242 -111-077-088           street no. 11, d-6,
       +9221 35876386                 fax:    +9242- 6363126            darul aman road,
                                                                        karteh seeh,
islamabad                             peshawar                          kabul,
sector i-9/2, industrial area.        6th floor, state life building,   afghanistan.
p.o. box 1098 ,                       the mall,                         phone: +9320-2500640
islamabad - 44790                     p.o.box no.341,                   fax:    +9320-2500641
phone: +9251- 4434981                 peshawar-25000 .
uan: +9251- 111-077-088               phone: +9291- 5276029
fax:    +9251- 4434974                fax:    +9291- 5276187
