
                                      annual report 2014


table of contents
trends and the future                              5
sponda                                             5
chief executive's review                           5
strategy                                           6
sponda's vision and strengths                      6
value chain                                        7
prospects for 2015                                 9
future trends                                      9
sponda's future solutions                         12
case climate change                               12
case urbanisation                                 14
case changes in shopping behaviour                16
spondability                                      17
managing responsibility                           18
materiality analysis                              19
responsibility priorities                         20
energy and environmental efficiency               20
property locations                                22
enhancing the customer experience                 23
customer process                                  25
investing in employees                            25
transparent and ethical operations                26
taking the industry forward                       28
supply chain                                      30
operations and results                            31
strategic operations in 2014                      31
key figures                                       32
key figures in graphs                             34

                                                   2

                                                            annual report 2014

business units in brief                                                 37
investment properties in 2014                                           39
property development in 2014                                            43
russia in figures                                                       45
business environment                                                    46
property assets                                                         51
sponda's stakeholders                                                   54
responsibility actions                                                  55
energy and environmental efficiency                                     57
energy consumption and energy sources                                   60
carbon footprint                                                        67
energy efficiency programme and environmental partnership               69
waste management                                                        70
property locations                                                      73
enhancing the customer experience                                       74
investing in employees                                                  76
transparent and ethical operations                                      80
taxation                                                                82
taking the industry forward                                             83
gri index                                                               84
the scope and principles of the report                                  90
independent assurance report                                            93
risks and risk management                                               94
risk assessment                                                         95
corporate governance                                                    97
corporate governance                                                    97
board of directors                                                      97
duties of the board of directors                                       100
board committees and working groups                                    100



                                                                         3

                                                               annual report 2014

remuneration and other financial benefits of the board of directors       101
the general meeting                                                       102
nomination board                                                          102
the president and ceo                                                     102
the executive board                                                       104
external and internal audits                                              106
insiders                                                                  107
risk management and risk management organisation                          107
information for shareholders                                              109
financial information 2015                                                111
contact details                                                           112




                                                                            4

                                                                             annual report 2014 - trends and the future



sponda
sponda plc is a real estate investment company that specialises in business premises in the helsinki metropolitan area and tampere. sponda’s
business concept is to own, lease and develop office, retail and shopping centre properties into environments that promote the business success
of its clients.


sponda is organised into three business units: investment properties, property development and russia.




chief executive’s review
sponda’s core operations remained stable in 2014. the sales of properties during the year led to a slight year-on-year decline in total revenue,
but cash flow remained strong.


in the office market, vacancy rates have increased particularly in helsinki, and sponda’s occupancy rate also decreased slightly from the
previous year. however, sponda’s prime areas in the helsinki metropolitan area, the central business district and ruoholahti in particular, still
remain desired locations. the shopping centre business continues to be hampered by low consumer confidence in the economy, but there are
signs of a slight positive turn. in spite of the difficult situation, we managed to maintain the occupancy rate of our shopping centres at the previous
year’s level, and even increase it slightly.



property ownership focused on the helsinki metropolitan area and tampere

we continued to implement our strategy, which was revised in 2013. we sold our shares in three real estate funds and approximately half of our
logistics property portfolio to certeum oy. the transaction was significant not only to sponda, but also the finnish property market.


during the year, we also sold most of our properties located in turku. the transactions see us focus our property ownership even more strongly
on our key strategic areas, namely the helsinki metropolitan area and tampere.



development projects increase property quality

our property development operations were active in 2014, particularly in light of the prevailing economic situation. the largest projects in 2014
were the new office properties under construction in helsinki’s lassila and ilmala districts. we also had major renovation investments underway,
which will allow us to offer increasingly high-quality business premises solutions to our customers. increasing the quality of our property portfolio
improves our property stock and reduces its risk.


two new construction projects and two extensive refurbishment projects will be completed in 2015. the pre-letting rates for the projects are high,
and their completion will bring a valuable addition to sponda’s total revenue and property portfolio. our aim is to start at least one new property
development project in 2015.



changes in how work is done are challenging the property sector

there are many questions surrounding the future of the property industry. changes in how work is done, changing business premises
requirements and general trends in urban development are presenting new challenges to industry operators. it is necessary to assess how
properties will be used in the future, and what areas will see growth. we must have an open mind and a broad-based approach to various
alternatives. for example, converting an old logistics property for residential use may be a sensible move for all concerned, and promoting such
projects requires effective co-operation between parties such as businesses and the public administration.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                      5

                                                                                   annual report 2014 - trends and the future

i am confident that focusing our property ownership on growing areas in the helsinki metropolitan area and tampere will prove to be a good
strategy. sponda has a good property portfolio and the capacity to adapt business premises according to customer needs. we also have a strong
capacity for change. we want to not only develop properties, but also develop sponda as a company.


the credit for the development of our company must go to our personnel, who have a high level of professional competence and the willingness
to think beyond the conventional approaches in our industry. i would also like to thank our shareholders for their trust in sponda and our
customers for their valuable partnership. we are well positioned to move forward in 2015.


kari inkinen
president and ceo




strategy
profitable growth through focused property ownership

sponda is a property investment company that owns, leases and develops office and shopping centre properties in helsinki and tampere.
sponda seeks growth and profitability through customer-focused operations, active property development and property acquisitions in finland.


the main goals of sponda’s strategy are simplification of the business structure, more focused property ownership and profitable growth. the
company’s operations are focused on office properties, shopping centres and property development serving these segments. sponda’s
geographical focus is on prime areas in the helsinki metropolitan area, particularly in the central business district and ruoholahti, as well as
tampere. focusing property ownership on strategically important areas, where sponda already has a strong position, gives the company a better
capacity to develop its market intelligence and grow profitably.


to achieve its goals, sponda will divest its russian operations, logistics properties and properties located in turku within two to four years. in line
with this strategy, sponda sold its shares in three real estate funds and half of its logistics property portfolio in 2014.


in addition to the company’s strategic direction, the criteria applied by sponda in selecting properties for acquisition and ownership include
energy efficiency, flexibility, central location and access to public transport.



strategic focus

sponda’s strategic focal points are the customer experience and environmental responsibility. the energy consumption of the properties included
in sponda’s energy efficiency programme has decreased in line with previously set targets. at the same time, a growing percentage of the waste
generated at the properties is being recovered. sponda’s customer relationships are based on interactive partnership. with the help of a process
to support the development of the customer experience, sponda aims to identify the best ways of working from the customer’s perspective.


environmental responsibility is an integral part of sponda’s operations. the company’s long-term goal is to develop its environmental expertise
and to share this expertise with customers and partners.




sponda's vision and strengths
mission

sponda is a leading property investment company that owns, leases and develops office and shopping centre properties in the largest cities in
finland. sponda develops business environments that promote the business success of customers.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     6

                                                                                  annual report 2014 - trends and the future

vision

sponda’s vision is to be the first choice for customers looking for business premises. in accordance with this vision, sponda creates added value
for its customers by offering business premises solutions that take into account the customers’ individual needs, operating culture and the nature
of their work.



values

the most important values for sponda are innovation, professionalism and reliability. we live these values every day. they guide our conduct
towards our customers and each other.



sponda's key strengths

property portfolio focused on
                                  sponda's property portfolio includes some of the highest quality and best known properties in the helsinki metropolitan area,
the best locations in the
                                  particularly in the central business district and ruoholahti in helsinki.
helsinki metropolitan area

diversified property portfolio    sponda's property portfolio includes a wide range of office and shopping centre properties. thanks to its extensive business
that offers customers a wide      premises offering, sponda is able to offer its clients alternative premises also when their space requirements change.
choice of premises

diverse, high-quality tenant      sponda's largest clients include major retail stores, the finance industry and the public sector. the company has a diversified
base and balanced lease           tenant base, which reduces the risks related to individual customer segments or tenants.
portfolio

                                  sponda owns a considerable amount of land and numerous potential property development sites. in 2014 the company
leading property development
                                  started two new property development projects in helsinki. as market conditions improve and demand grows, the company
operations
                                  has the flexibility to launch new property development projects.

                                  the members of sponda's executive board have long-term operational experience with the company and in the real estate
experienced, committed
                                  business. in addition, sponda's personnel have strong expertise and extensive experience of the property markets, which
management and personnel
                                  enables sponda to offer its clients competitive solutions and services.

                                  responsibility is an integral part of sponda's day-to-day operations and business expertise, supporting the company's
responsible business
                                  profitability and long-term viability. the company's operations are planned and assessed from the perspectives of
operations
                                  responsibility.




sponda’s value chain
sponda engages in active property development and buys and leases properties to create value for its shareholders, customers, surrounding
communities and society at large.


the creation of value is based on sponda’s capital, which includes not only human capital and the necessary natural resources, but also the
financial, manufactured, intellectual and social capital that is concentrated in the company. the focus on responsibility also strengthens the
company’s profitability and long-term viability, creating value in future as well.


the core strengths of sponda include a diversified property portfolio focusing on the best locations, leading property development operations and
highly skilled personnel. they allow sponda to provide its customers with comfortable, safe and energy-efficient business premises.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                7

                                                               annual report 2014 - trends and the future




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   8

                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future


sponda in 2015
forecasts indicate that the finnish economy will grow slightly in 2015 by 0.9 per cent (2014: 0.1%). sponda expects the property rental market to
remain tight. on the other hand, the market situation supports the implementation of property development projects, as resources for construction
are readily available and costs are lower in relative terms.


sponda’s operational focal points for 2015:


•   maintaining the economic occupancy rate at least at the level of year end 2014.
•   continuing the sale of non-core properties.
•   maintaining a stable dividend payout capacity.
•   starting at least one new property development project. four major property development projects will be completed in 2015.



financial objectives

sponda’s long-term goal is to maintain its equity ratio at above 40 per cent. the equity ratio was 41 per cent at the end of 2014 (2013: 41). the
company pays a dividend of approximately 50 per cent of the cash flow from operations per share for each accounting period. dividend payment
takes into account the financial situation and the company’s development needs.



prospects for 2015

net operating income

sponda expects net operating income for 2015 to amount to eur 158–168 million. the estimate is based on the company’s view of property
sales to be completed and the development of rental operations during the year.


epra earnings

sponda estimates that company adjusted epra earnings will amount to eur 95–105 million in 2015. this outlook is based on the development
of net operating income and the company’s estimate of the development of financial expenses.




future trends
it is not possible to predict the future. nevertheless, there are certain trends evident in society that affect sponda’s operations and the
development of the property sector as a whole. sponda has identified urbanisation, climate change, a growing need for communality and
digitalisation as the trends that are most significant to its operations.


more information on how trends affect sponda, and company’s responses to them, is available in the megatrends section.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                    9

                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future




urbanisation

in the future, the world’s population will become increasingly concentrated in urban areas. at present, 70 per cent of finns 1 live in cities or on the
outskirts of cities, and the trend of migration to growth centres in southern finland, in particular, is expected to continue. sponda is focusing its
property portfolio on central areas in helsinki and tampere. in addition to zoning and property development, good public transport plays a key
role in the sustainable growth of urban areas.




climate change

the earth’s average temperature is predicted to rise in finland by as much as six degrees2 by 2100 if greenhouse gas emissions continue to
increase at the current rate. the built environment plays a significant role in mitigating climate change – the energy efficiency requirements for
properties and the industry as a whole will increase further due to climate change. environmental requirements are an area of particular focus in
sponda’s property development operations, property maintenance, and the use of properties.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     10

                                                                                        annual report 2014 - trends and the future




communality

modern urban communality is often created through digital interaction. however, people will have a need to meet face to face, both at work and in
their free time. finland is one of the european leaders in remote work, with 45 per cent of finns performing part of their work duties outside the
workplace3. variability in how work is performed is set to increase in the future. this will see increased significance for the workplace as a social
and pleasant meeting place: an effective work environment provides space for collaborative idea generation as well as the performance of tasks
that require greater concentration. multispace offices have been estimated to create a greater sense of cohesion in workplaces4. shopping
centres will also play an important role in creating a sense of community in the future.




digitalisation

in the future, various digital services will make daily life more convenient, and goods and services will be increasingly purchased online. online
commerce has grown significantly in finland, nearly 20 per cent in a period of three years5. the transformation of retail presents new challenges
and opportunities to brick-and-mortar shops and shopping centres.


1
    finnish ministry of employment and the economy 2013
2
    sitra 2013
3
    eurofound 2012
4
    building information foundation rts, building information ltd and the association of finnish construction managers and engineers amk rkl
5
    tns gallup 2014




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                   11

                                                                                     annual report 2014 - trends and the future


sponda's future solutions
 future trend     effect on the industry and sponda                                      sponda’s actions


 urbanisation      •   population concentrates in cities                                  •   focusing the property portfolio on the city centres of helsinki
                   •   an increasing need for business premises and retail services in        and tampere, and the developing districts of these cities
                       growth centres                                                     •   property assets with good public transport access
                   •   development of public transportation                               •   active property development
                                                                                          •   urban development in co-operation with the authorities

 climate
 change            •   increasing requirements related to the energy efficiency of        •   energy-efficient construction in both new property development
                       properties and the industry as a whole                                 and renovation projects
                   •   properties are exposed to extreme weather phenomena                •   preparing for extreme weather phenomena in co-operation with
                   •   increasing upward pressure on energy costs                             the maintenance network
                                                                                          •   drafting proactive energy contracts
                                                                                          •   co-operation with customers and partners to reduce the
                                                                                              environmental impact of properties


 communality       •   as working remotely becomes increasingly common, there is a        •   developing solutions that support communality in office spaces
                       growing need for office spaces that support communality            •   developing shopping centre concepts
                   •   shopping centres play an increasingly significant role in          •   creating flexible business premises
                       supporting communality and providing entertainment

 digitalisation
                                                                                          •   utilising digital services in retail premises
                   •   the digitalisation of retail presents new challenges and           •   improving digital capacity in office premises
                       opportunities to brick-and-mortar shops and shopping centres       •   development of sponda’s services and business premises
                   •   changes in purchasing behaviour                                        solutions
                   •   work irrespective of time and place creates new demands on         •   creating flexible business premises
                       office environments




climate expert wants to dispel myths about energy
climate change cannot be stopped, but it can and must be slowed down. this is best achieved by improving energy efficiency and
cutting back on energy consumption. the climate expert’s vision also includes a healthy dose of sun and wind.


the ongoing climate change is the result of increased amounts of greenhouse gases in our atmosphere. greenhouse gases act like the glass
roof of a greenhouse, containing heat within the earth’s atmosphere. when the amount of greenhouse gases increases, the greenhouse effect is
intensified and the earth’s average temperature rises.


– rising average temperature leads to an increase in extreme weather phenomena such as heavy rain and its opposite, severe drought. marine
ecosystems are threatened by rising water temperatures and the acidifying effect carbon dioxide has on the seas. in finland, winters will become
even gloomier due to increased cloudiness, says hanna-liisa kangas, who worked as a climate coordinator at wwf finland until the turn of
the year and is currently a climate policy researcher at the finnish environment institute.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                12

                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future

controlling emissions from chimneys

the greenhouse gas with the most significant effect on rising temperatures is carbon dioxide, which is primarily released into the atmosphere
from the chimneys of power plants that use fossil fuels.


– for this reason, energy conservation and energy efficiency play a central role in slowing down climate change. buildings are real gluttons for
energy, accounting for approximately 40 per cent of finland’s total energy consumption. reducing the energy consumption of buildings is
essential, kangas says.


the key avenues for achieving this include improving the energy efficiency of                      it is a myth that finland doesn’t
properties, which is best done by renovating properties to make them more energy-
                                                                                                   get enough sun or wind.
efficient and informing the users of properties about ways to save energy.


– the lower the total consumption of energy, the larger the share of our energy requirement that can be met by zero-emission and renewable
sources, such as geothermal energy, wind and solar power, kangas explains.


– it is a myth that finland doesn’t get enough sun or wind. in fact, we are extremely well positioned to make more effective use of renewable
energy sources, she adds.



electric cars as energy storage units?

in this climate expert’s future vision, energy generated by solar and wind power would be stored in large quantities in storage units such as the
batteries of electric vehicles.


– i believe electric cars can serve as significant storage units for electricity in the future. there are also many other innovations related to the
production, storage and use of energy, we just need to put them into practice, kangas says.


– one example is the development of smart devices, which will see equipment that uses electricity do so when it is cheapest due to the
prevailing conditions, such as sunshine or windy weather, she envisions.




     climate change increases the earth’s average temperature
       •   climate change results in a rise in the earth’s average temperature.
       •   climate change causes an increase in extreme weather phenomena, such as drought and flooding. energy conservation and
           energy efficiency play a significant role in slowing down climate change.
       •   with regard to properties, the key is to renovate buildings to make them energy efficient and inform their users of how to save
           energy.
       •   when energy consumption decreases, a larger proportion of our energy requirements can be covered by zero-emission and
           renewable energy sources.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                       13

                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future




building a more condensed and comfortable city
the trend of urbanisation is continuing in finland, as the population concentrates in areas where jobs are located and, in particular,
the cities at the heart of such areas. according to the urban helsinki collective, growing cities should focus on condensing the urban
structure. this would also provide opportunities for creating an even more comfortable and attractive urban environment.


– in finland, the helsinki region has a particularly strong pull, but other major cities are also growing as a result of migration and natural
population growth. the population is concentrating in major cities, and within these, the city centres are gaining new strength. a growing number
of young people want to live in an urban environment, says miika norppa, a member of the urban helsinki collective.


the aim of the urban helsinki collective is to help helsinki and other finnish cities             encounters between people
respond to the challenges presented by population growth and, in particular, the
                                                                                                  promote the exchange of ideas
wishes of young adults to live in city centre type surroundings.
                                                                                                  and the creation of innovations,
the urban helsinki group says the best response to this challenge is condensing                   and they also help prevent social
the urban structure. the concept for a more condensed city of the future is
                                                                                                  exclusion.
described in the pro helsinki 2.0 shadow city plan, urban helsinki’s alternative to
the city of helsinki’s official city plan.


– in our shadow city plan, we propose that building a more condensed city with effective public transportation will make it possible to offer
hundreds of thousands of new residents homes in a comfortable urban environment, says timo hämäläinen, a member of urban helsinki.



space for meetings and innovations

in many finnish cities, the areas where jobs are located are separate from the areas where people live. according to norppa and hämäläinen, it
is important from the perspective of comfort and attractiveness that condensing the urban structure involves the development of new properties
with offices and apartments as well as retail space on the ground level. their services could be used in the daytime by people who work in the
area, and in the evenings by the residents of the area.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                 14

                                                                            annual report 2014 - trends and the future

                                                                    – a condensed and lively urban environment where various functions are
                                                                    blended together also provides opportunities for the development of a sense
                                                                    of community, hämäläinen adds.


                                                                    – the benefits of the communal and social aspects supported by the urban
                                                                    environment are perhaps not yet fully understood. encounters between
                                                                    people promote the exchange of ideas and the creation of innovations, and
                                                                    they also help prevent social exclusion, norppa points out.


                                                                    hämäläinen characterises the existing urban environment as a space in which
                                                                    the walls of buildings enclose and hide everything that happens inside. the
                                                                    current large expanses of closed walls make the urban environment rather
                                                                    lifeless from the pedestrian perspective.


                                                                    – the more doors and services we add to buildings, the livelier the urban
environment becomes, he explains.




    urbanisation is an ongoing process
      •   in finland, the process of urbanisation is still rather incomplete compared to sweden, for example.
      •   the helsinki region, in particular, has a strong pull, and other cities are also seeing population growth. new jobs are concentrated
          in growing cities.
      •   urbanisation results in the need to create a condensed city in which residents enjoy life and businesses prosper.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                 15

                                                                               annual report 2014 - trends and the future




the many faces of the shops of the future
in the vision of consultant and senior advisor marjaana toiminen, the shops of the future are very versatile. what they have in
common is a smooth customer experience, but the shops themselves may be anything from simple walls with images of products to
entertainment centres providing unique experiences.


with the growth of e-commerce, especially retailers in traditional brick and mortar shops are wondering how to reach consumers that seem to be
disappearing into the world of online stores.


– even though luring people into stores might be more difficult in the future, there are ideas that can be implemented easily and affordably to
raise the importance of brick and mortar shops and shopping centres in the everyday lives of city dwellers and as part of urban culture, says
consultant and senior advisor marjaana toiminen.


for example, events and entertainment do not need to be confined to restaurants                at its most minimal, the shop of
and theatres–shopping centres could also feature more and different kinds of
                                                                                               the future may be just a wall or
events.
                                                                                               show case with products or
– if life in shopping centres adjusted better to different seasons and target groups,          images of products. at the other
it would create opportunities to foster a new sense of community, which would also
                                                                                               end of the spectrum is a concept
have a positive effect on cash flow, says toiminen.
                                                                                               store that is an experience and
according to toiminen, the growth of online retail is a clear trend, but at the same           entertainment space.
time, the increasing ease of shopping offers retail new opportunities as the
purchasing threshold is becoming lower or even disappearing. in future, the customer will be increasingly reachable and more liable to make
purchases.



encounters in different channels

according to toiminen, for a brick and mortar business to be successful, it needs to take advantage of different communications channels to
reach its customers.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                  16

                                                                             annual report 2014 - trends and the future

                                                        – in the future, a brick and mortar shop may serve as a service point where customers can
                                                       collect their online purchases or search for information using a mobile device. the service
                                                       point could also send real-time offers for people with smartphones passing the store. it is
                                                       very important to adopt the idea of multi-channel communication because customer
                                                       behaviour has already changed, toiminen explains.


                                                        – all in all, the customer wants shopping to be quick and easy, different from what they are
                                                       used to in brick and mortar shops. the consumer of the future may, for example, try on
                                                       clothes easily in a virtual dressing room. speed is also a priority in paying, whether done
                                                       using a mobile wallet or other discrete method, toiminen adds.


                                                       virtual dressing rooms are one example of how changes in shopping behaviour shape the
                                                       services as well as the physical space of shops.


– at its most minimal, the shop of the future may be just a wall or show case with products or images of products accompanied with qr codes
that can be read with a smartphone for mobile purchasing. there would be no need for personnel. at the other end of the spectrum is a concept
store that is an experience and entertainment space where shopping for items may even feel secondary, says toiminen.


-i have noticed that retailers are well-aware of these opportunities but their implementation has been surprisingly slow. have courage and try out
new things, toiminen encourages.




    ease and entertainment
       •   ease of shopping as well as interesting experiences will be the focus of the stores of the future.
       •   a brick and mortar shop may serve as a service point where customers can collect their online purchases or search for
           information, comparison reviews and recommendations on different products.
       •   shopping centres also have what it takes to become part of the city and urban culture, and to create a new sense of community.




spondability
responsibility is an integral part of sponda’s strategy and day-to-day operations, and it supports the company’s profitability and long-term
viability. sponda’s goals include increasing shareholder value, ensuring the sustainability of operations and continuously developing the
company. the term spondability communicates the holistic approach to responsibility.


the company has set annual targets and defined key actions for its strategic priorities, namely environmental responsibility and managing the
customer experience. the executive board and the board of directors regularly monitor the achievement of targets and implementation of
actions.


sponda encourages its employees to work towards the goals related to environmental responsibility and the customer experience. these two
priorities are included as factors in the incentive scheme that covers all personnel.



spondability in 2014

sponda’s most significant step in the development of responsibility in 2014 was updating the responsibility priorities based on a materiality
analysis carried out by the company. sponda's responsibiity priorities are: energy and environmental efficiency, property locations, enhancing the
customer experience, investing in employees, transparent and ethical operations and taking the industry forward.


in 2014, sponda drafted a code of conduct that lays the foundation for the company’s responsibility efforts, the management of responsibility,
and stakeholder relations. the code of conduct was approved by the executive board and the board of directors. additionally, in 2014, sponda




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                 17

                                                                             annual report 2014 - trends and the future

signed the un global compact and committed to its ten responsibility principles related to human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-
corruption.


sponda’s risk management process was adjusted in 2014 to place a greater emphasis on environmental responsibility by including the climate
change risks and opportunities related to sponda’s operations in the company’s regular risk assessment.


as an industry leader, sponda aims to continuously develop not only its financial reporting, but also its reporting on responsibility. in 2014, the
company reported on its responsibility efforts in accordance with the global reporting initiative (gri) g4 guidelines. sponda received also
international recognition in 2014 for its environmental and corporate responsibility reporting. the company was ranked as the best property
investment company in the nordic region according to the carbon disclosure project (cdp) assessment and was awarded a green star for the
second time in the global real estate sustainability benchmark (gresb) study.




managing responsibility
the principles and practices sponda applies to the management of its business operations also apply to the management of responsibility to a
large extent. the advantage of this integrated approach is that responsibility matters are linked to existing management processes.


sponda’s practices for managing responsibility are based on the company’s strategy, as well as the following guidelines and commitments:


•   sponda’s code of conduct
•   the un global compact
•   the company’s internal operations handbook



managing responsibility priorities

sponda has six responsibility priorities that are based on its strategy. the management of the key aspects of these priorities at the executive
board level is allocated to the senior vice president, corporate planning and ir, who is responsible for strategy, the senior vice president,
property development, and the chief financial officer who is responsible for human resources. at the executive board level, the senior vice
president, corporate planning and ir is in charge of corporate responsibility, while the senior vice president, property development, is in charge
of environmental responsibility. the president and ceo is in charge of the overall management of responsibility and the achievement of the
targets set.


where necessary, responsibility matters are also discussed at sponda’s board of directors' meetings.


the management of energy and environmental efficiency is the responsibility of the sustainability manager. she reports to the senior vice
president, property development, who is in charge of environmental responsibility at the executive board level. the environmental responsibility
steering group, which meets approximately six times per year, consists of the sustainability manager and four members of the executive board.
the executive board monitors the progress of company-level environmental targets on a monthly basis.


the management of the property locations responsibility priority is assigned to the president and ceo in co-operation with the senior vice
president, corporate planning and ir, the senior vice president of property development and the senior vice president of investment
properties.


enhancing the customer experience is the responsibility of the customer experience manager. he reports to the senior vice president,
corporate planning and ir, who is responsible for the customer experience at the executive board level. the customer experience steering
group, which meets approximately six times per year, consists of the customer experience manager and three members of the executive board.


the management of the investing in employees priority is the responsibility of the hr manager. she reports to the chief financial officer, who
is responsible for human resources at the executive board level.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                      18

                                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future

 at the executive board level, the priorities transparent and ethical operations and taking the industry forward are the responsibility of the
 senior vice president, corporate planning and ir, and the senior vice president, property development. operational management responsibility
 is allocated between the purchasing and quality manager, the sustainability manager and the chief legal counsel, depending on the area of
 operations in question.




 materiality analysis
 sponda defined the responsibility priorities most material to its operations for the first time in 2011, at which time seven responsibility priorities
 stemming from the company’s strategy were identified. in 2014, sponda updated its materiality analysis in accordance with the gri g4 reporting
 guidelines. based on the results of the analysis, the responsibility priorities and their most material aspects were updated.


 as a result of the analysis, sponda’s existing responsibility priorities of energy efficiency and material efficiency were combined into a priority
 named energy and environmental efficiency. in addition, the priority transparent and ethical operations replaced the previous priority of
 transparency in operations.


 the material corporate responsibility aspects that correspond with sponda’s responsibility priorities are depicted in the table below and in the gri
 index.



 sponda’s responsibility priorities 2014: transparent and ethical operations form the basis

 energy and environmental                                                     enhancing the customer            investing in
                          property location                                                                                           taking the industry forward
 efficiency                                                                   experience                        employees


     •    energy efficiency of          •   taking environmental aspects       •   working environments and      •   improving         •   active participation in
          properties                        into account in making                 property services that            professional          development work in real estate
     •    greenhouse gas                    decisions on property                  support the customer’s            expertise of          and construction industry
          emissions and                     investments                            operations                        employees             organisations
          renewable energy              •   focusing on properties located     •   comfort of indoor             •   wellbeing of      •   sharing expertise and
     •    increasing                        in cities, accessible by public        environment                       employees             professional competencies
          environmental                     transportation                     •   customer safety and health    •   safety of         •   own research and development
          awareness among               •   concentrating on prime areas       •   supporting the customer’s         personnel             work
          customers and                 •   investments in property assets         responsibility goals          •   equal and non-
          employees                                                                                                  discriminatory
     •    sorting and recovery of                                                                                    treatment of
          property waste                                                                                             employees
     •    environmental
          certification of properties
     •    water consumption at
          properties

                                                                       transparent and ethical operations

                                                                   economic value generated for stakeholders
                                                                   transparent communications and reporting
                                                                              business principles
                                                               purchasing management and responsible purchasing
                                                                     good governance and risk management




 stages of the materiality analysis

1.       identifying the material aspects of sponda’s corporate responsibility in the value chain.
2.       prioritising the material aspects in co-operation with significant stakeholders.
3.       impacts of the material aspects on sponda’s operations.


 sponda’s materiality analysis began with an industry and background analysis on the most significant aspects of responsibility in the property
 sector and in companies used as benchmarks. the background analyses provided a comprehensive understanding of key issues and trends
 relevant to business operations in the property sector.


 in summer 2014, sponda conducted an online survey to assess the views of its key stakeholders—customers, investors, business partners and
 employees—regarding the importance of various aspects of responsibility, their impression of sponda’s performance, the overall score they




 this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                      19

                                                                            annual report 2014 - trends and the future

would give sponda for responsibility in relation to its competitors, and the quality of sponda’s responsibility communications.


the survey responses were used to identify and analyse the material responsibility aspects in sponda’s value chain. the external stakeholders
indicated that the most important themes related to responsibility are the professional competence of sponda’s personnel, the energy efficiency
of properties, customer health and safety, the comfort of indoor environments, providing a working environment that supports the customer’s
operations, and ethical business principles.


a joint workshop between sponda employees and management continued the work of prioritising the material aspects and assessed their effects
on sponda’s operations. the prioritisation also took sponda’s strategy into account. in the workshop, the most material responsibility themes with
regard to sponda’s operations were identified as property locations, working environments that support the customer’s operations, professional
competence of sponda's employees, transparent communications, and the energy efficiency of properties. the updated responsibility priorities
are based on sponda’s strategy, industry analysis, stakeholder survey and the identification of business impacts.


sponda’s executive board approved the updated responsibility priorities based on the materiality analysis process, and their material aspects.




responsibility priorities
sponda has identified six responsibility priorities stemming from the company’s strategy:


•   energy and environmental efficiency
•   property locations
•   enhancing the customer experience
•   investing in employees
•   transparent and ethical operations
•   taking the industry forward




energy and environmental efficiency
construction and completed buildings are responsible for more than 40 per cent of finland’s total energy consumption. sponda
recognises this and pays particular attention to the energy efficiency and carbon footprint of its properties, but also to other
environmental impacts, such as the recycling and recovery of waste, and water consumption.



the key aspects of the priority are:

•   the energy efficiency of properties
•   greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy
•   increasing environmental awareness among customers and employees
•   environmental efficiency of own operations
•   environmental certification of properties
•   the sorting and recovery of property waste
•   water consumption at properties



why is this a priority?

the significance of environmental responsibility in the property business is growing. the drivers of sponda’s development of energy and
environmental efficiency include the significant role the property sector plays in fighting climate change, increasing customer demands, tighter
regulation, the cost savings achieved through energy-related measures, as well as reputation and image.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                   20

                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future

in its new climate policy, the european union has made a commitment to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 per cent from 1990 levels
by 2030. a further binding target at the eu level is to increase the use of renewable energy by 27 per cent, and an indicative target has been set
to improve energy efficiency by 27 per cent. the eu has a further target of reducing emissions by 80–95 per cent by 2050. according to a
directive that will enter into force at the start of 2021, all new buildings must be nearly zero-energy buildings. a nearly zero-energy building’s
energy requirement is covered to a very significant extent by energy from renewable sources produced on-site or nearby.


finland is preparing the national implementation of the eu energy efficiency directive as well as the new business sector energy efficiency
agreement period, which will begin from 2017. finland’s energy and climate roadmap 2050 was published in 2014. the roadmap 2050 serves
as a strategy guide on the journey towards achieving finland’s long-term objective of being a carbon-neutral society. building a carbon-neutral
society requires contributions from all sectors.


sponda aims to respond to the requirements and the targets set by the eu and finland, and energy efficiency is an important consideration in all
of the company’s property development projects as well as in renovation, maintenance and use of properties. improving the energy efficiency of
buildings also reduces carbon dioxide emissions. going forward, the use of renewable energy will play a significant role in achieving the targets
set. through its involvement in various organisations, sponda is actively monitoring the progress of eu and finnish projects, legislation and
agreements related to energy efficiency.


every day approximately 30,000 people work in premises owned by sponda. as much as 60 per cent of the total energy consumption of a
building occurs during the use of the building, which means that co-operation between the landlord and tenants aimed at reducing energy
consumption is of crucial importance. through its energy efficiency and environmental partnership programmes, sponda encourages its clients
to be energy efficient and to take environmental aspects into consideration in the use of properties, and provides guidance to its clients on energy
efficiency and environmentally friendly building use.


sponda monitors the energy and water consumption, as well as waste management volumes of its properties located in finland on a monthly,
quarterly and annual basis. for properties in russia, the consumption of electricity and water are monitored on a monthly and annual basis.



environmentally responsible property development

at sponda, new construction, property renovation and the design of low-energy office buildings are all subject to the company’s design
guidelines, which are reviewed and updated annually and are in many ways more extensive than the generally applied standards and
regulations. the guidelines help the company develop adaptable and energy efficient properties that offer functional working environments.


sponda pays particular attention to environmental requirements in its property development operations. sponda applies for international
environmental classification, an environmental certificate, for all new buildings and major renovation projects. at the end of 2014, sponda had
eight environmentally certified properties and several certification projects in progress.



sponda’s energy efficiency programme is aimed at conserving energy

the energy efficient use of properties is supported particularly through sponda’s energy efficiency programme, which is aimed at achieving
energy savings in co-operation with clients. the properties included in the programme carry out regular energy reviews to determine the energy
consumption of each property and to examine the different technical systems relating to energy consumption. based on these reviews,
adjustments, repairs and investments that are in line with properties' use and profitable from a technical-economic standpoint are made.


sponda’s energy efficiency programme’s target of achieving energy savings of 10 per cent by 2016, using the average consumption in
2001–2005 as the baseline, was achieved ahead of schedule in 2013. the long-term target is to achieve a 20 per cent reduction in energy
consumption by 2020, compared to the average consumption in 2001–2005. sponda’s progress with respect to the achievement of the long-term
target is on schedule.


energy-saving goals and measures for achieving them are set individually for each property in co-operation with the users. developments are
then monitored in regular meetings with clients. the cost savings achieved through the energy efficiency programme are reinvested in the
property. sponda’s partners corbel oy and ovenia oy are responsible for property service and maintenance operations as well as for collecting
and monitoring consumption data.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     21

                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future

sponda’s environmental partnerships

in 2011, sponda’s energy efficiency programme was complemented by an environmental partnership programme aimed at reducing the
environmental load resulting from the use of properties by engaging in closer co-operation with customers. in addition to energy consumption, the
programme takes into account the broader environmental impact of properties and customers’ operations.


sponda and its environmental partners organise environmental events to distribute information to the users of properties on property-specific
environmental matters and energy efficiency, and responsibility in general.



sponda’s green lease

in the green lease model, the customer and sponda agree on joint objectives and compensation models to encourage the use of
environmentally friendly solutions and the reduction of energy consumption. under the agreement, savings and excesses in energy costs are
divided annually between the tenant and the landlord.



environmental information for employees

the environmental expertise of sponda's employees is improved with the help of the wwf green office programme. sponda’s head office is a
green office. environmental awareness is also increased in other ways, such as the annual green day environmental event, internal training
events as well as green office tips published regularly on the company intranet and sponda’s facebook page.


employees are encouraged to make ecological choices through a company car policy that supports low-emission options. employees are also
provided with company bicycles. as part of sponda’s green office environmental programme, employees are also trained in economical driving.




property locations
sponda takes environmental considerations into account in deciding on the locations for its property investments. the company’s
properties are in key areas in major cities and in locations easily accessible by public transportation, which helps reduce the
environmental impacts of the properties during their use.



the key aspects of the priority are:

•   taking environmental aspects into account in making decisions on property investments
•   focusing on properties located in cities, accessible by public transportation
•   concentrating on prime areas
•   investments in property assets



why is this a priority?

for sponda, the central location of its properties is a key strategic choice: the company’s properties are in key areas in the helsinki metropolitan
area and tampere, in locations with good public transport links. approximately 75 per cent of sponda’s properties are located in these areas. in
its building projects sponda takes into account not just the building itself but also the close surroundings and that the building as a whole fits in
with the urban-scape.


sponda’s investment strategy is sustainable both financially and environmentally. accessibility is an increasingly important factor in the decisions
companies make regarding business premises. it is perceived as a way of supporting the mobility of customers and employees, as well as an
opportunity to reduce emissions caused by commuting. companies located in areas with high traffic flows also achieve a competitive advantage
through greater visibility.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                    22

                                                                             annual report 2014 - trends and the future

the demand and rental levels for properties located in the central areas of cities are more stable, even in economically uncertain times. in line
with its strategy, sponda aims to concentrate its property portfolio in the city centres and other rapidly growing areas of helsinki and tampere,
while divesting properties located in sparsely populated areas or on the fringes of cities.


location is one of the criteria applied in the environmental certification of business properties. the breeam® and leed® certification processes
take into account not only the energy consumption of the building, but also factors such as public transport links and bicycle parking facilities.




enhancing the customer experience
at sponda, the customer experience consists of comfortable business premises that meet customer needs, as well as competent and
professional customer service. sponda aims to develop interactive long-term partnerships with its customers.



the key aspects of the priority are:

•   working environments and property services that support the customer’s operations
•   comfort of the indoor environment
•   customer safety and health
•   supporting the customer’s responsibility goals



why is this a priority?

the significance of the customer experience will continue to grow in the property sector as companies that seek business premises are
increasingly focusing not only on prices per square metre, but also other factors. trends such as the transformation in working culture, changes
in purchasing behaviour, and awareness of environmental impacts are placing greater requirements on business premises and their suppliers.


the key building blocks of the customer experience are functional and high-quality business premises as well as competent personnel who
understand the customer’s needs. sponda offers comfortable and flexible working environments that support the customer’s operations. the
safety and health of business premises customers is ensured by focusing on the comfort of the indoor environment, specifically cleanliness, air
quality and temperature.


in the property sector, customer relationships are typically long term: the process of finding the right business premises takes time, and leases
are signed for periods of several years. in customer relationships, sponda’s goal is to achieve a long-term interactive partnership rather than a
unilateral lessor-tenant relationship. this allows the customer to receive the maximum benefit from sponda’s strengths, namely the expertise of
its personnel and its comprehensive portfolio of business premises.


at the end of 2014, sponda had a total of 1,887 customers and 2,923 lease agreements. the largest client sectors were the public sector, retail
and banking.



continuous focus on customer service

the customer experience often begins even before the actual customer relationship is established, as customers search for different business
premises alternatives and suppliers. with this in mind, sponda’s aim is to be easily approachable via a variety of channels, and the company
continuously develops various forms of customer service.


during the lessor-tenant relationship, the emphasis is on property services, the continuous development of the customer relationship, and
maintaining active contact with the customer. the aim of customer service operations is to allow the customer to focus on their own business
while sponda handles all property-related services in co-operation with its property management partners.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     23

                                                               annual report 2014 - trends and the future


sponda’s customers by sector 2014


sector                                                                                                        % rental income

professional, scientific and technical activities                                                                         6.5

energy                                                                                                                    0.5

public sector                                                                                                            12.9

wholesale/retail                                                                                                         25.4

education                                                                                                                 1.3

logistics/transport                                                                                                       3.7

hotel and catering business                                                                                               5.1

media /publishing                                                                                                         4.1

other services                                                                                                           14.2

banking/investment                                                                                                       10.5

construction                                                                                                              1.2

industry/manufacturing                                                                                                    4.0

healthcare                                                                                                                4.9

telecommunications                                                                                                        5.6

others                                                                                                                    0.3



top 10 tenants 2014
state of finland

kesko group

hok-elanto

danske bank plc

city of espoo

sanoma media finland oy

diacor

nordea bank finland plc

elisa corporation

evli bank plc




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents         24

                                                                            annual report 2014 - trends and the future


sponda's customer process




building the customer experience begins from the very first meeting between the client and sponda. sponda’s expertise helps customers find
business premises that are tailored to their unique needs. as business premises solutions are long-term decisions, the analysis of the client’s
needs takes into account the client organisation’s future prospects and objectives.


business premises are tailored to these needs in close cooperation with the client. flexible solutions can be easily adapted as the client’s
operations develop and change.


the customer experience does not end when the right business premises are found. instead, it develops and strengthens throughout the
customer relationship. sponda maintains regular contact with its customers and analyses customer satisfaction annually. the aim is to create
interactive long-term customer relationships.




investing in employees
sponda’s employees are characterised by their professional and motivated approach and good team spirit. employee wellbeing and
expertise are key success factors for sponda. sponda wants to invest in the high-quality training of personnel and good leadership.



the key aspects of the priority are:

•   improving professional expertise
•   occupational wellbeing and job satisfaction
•   safety and equal treatment of employees




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                  25

                                                                             annual report 2014 - trends and the future

why is this a priority?

in addition to high-quality business premises, highly competent employees are one of sponda’s key strengths. continuous personnel
development and good leadership enable sponda to achieve its strategic objectives and make the company a more attractive employer.


sponda’s goal in all operations is continuous improvement and learning. personnel development is guided by customer orientation: training is
planned based on strategy, customer and stakeholder feedback, and appraisal discussions. sponda organises common training programmes for
its personnel and offers the opportunity to participate in training outside the company. sponda also encourages employees to adopt an
independent and active approach to their work and self-development.



aiming for employee wellbeing and equality

the realisation of equal opportunities is important at sponda. sponda’s key objective is to ensure that employees do not experience any unequal
treatment on the basis of gender, age, religion, health or other such factors. fair and non-discriminatory treatment applies to the entire
employment relationship, from recruitment to termination.


wellbeing at work is the cornerstone of good work performance and work fitness. sponda’s investment in the wellbeing and job satisfaction of its
employees includes the provision of extensive and versatile occupational healthcare services, the objective of which is to prevent illnesses and
problems resulting from stress and other work-related psychological factors, and to support work fitness. in addition, sponda has a special
wellbeing programme to support the work fitness of employees who have been in working life for a long time.


sponda also looks after occupational health and wellbeing by supporting its employees’ physical exercise and cultural activities, and by
encouraging employees to adopt environmentally friendly and sporty commuting habits by offering them company bicycles.



employees are involved in development efforts

sponda monitors job satisfaction and organisational effectiveness with the help of an annual employee survey. everyone’s understanding of the
connection between their own work and sponda’s strategy and goals is ensured in appraisal discussions. the progress and achievement of each
employee’s personal goals is assessed with the help of appraisal discussions, customer feedback and employee surveys.


sponda uses an incentive scheme that covers the entire personnel and is based on the company’s common goals and on personal annual
targets set specifically for each employee. sponda also has an employee share programme that gives employees the opportunity to use net
remuneration earned pursuant to the incentive scheme for the purpose of acquiring merit pay shares and, in addition, receive funds from sponda
to acquire additional shares.




transparent and ethical operations
the transparency and accuracy of information regarding the company’s operations is of utmost importance to sponda. openness and
transparency are promoted through developing the company’s operating models and by engaging in open dialogue with stakeholders.



the key aspects of the priority are:

•   economic value generated for stakeholders
•   transparent communications and reporting
•   business principles
•   purchasing management and responsible purchasing
•   good governance and risk management




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                               26

                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future

why is this a priority?

all of sponda’s operations are based on transparent and ethical operating methods and good governance. sponda’s code of conduct provides
ethical guidelines for the company and creates the foundation for its business operations and stakeholder co-operation. responsible business
operations and effective risk management aimed at minimising risks also generate value for stakeholders and increase the company’s
profitability.


for sponda, transparency means, above all, reliable communications and reporting. these aspects are continuously developed on the basis of
interaction with investors and other stakeholders. in its customer communications, sponda’s aim is interactive and regular communication, and
communicating responsibility as part of routine customer meetings. more detailed information on sponda’s key stakeholder groups and the
company’s interaction with them can be found in sponda’s stakeholder groups in the annual report and on the company website.


sponda’s financial reporting complies with existing legislation and standards. the company also serves investors by providing information on its
operating environment and development in line with epra (european public real estate association) recommendations, among others. as part
of its annual report, sponda also publishes information on its annual tax footprint, which describes the taxes and tax-like payments arising from
its operations.



reporting on responsibility plays a key role

sponda regularly reports on its measures and results related to corporate and environmental responsibility in accordance with the gri reporting
guidelines. sponda also reports annually as part of the carbon disclosure project (cdp) and global real estate sustainability benchmark
(gresb) reporting systems. the importance of international reporting frameworks is recognised, as their continuously updated criteria provide
sponda with guidelines on developing its operations.



responsible management of the subcontracting chain

companies, organisations and authorities in the construction and real estate industry have an important role in protecting against the grey
economy and commercial crime. sponda also promotes responsible operating methods in the property sector in co-operation with its
subcontractors by requiring that they operate transparently, comply with all applicable legislation and regulations issued by the authorities, and
conduct their communications in a timely and appropriate manner.


the main goal of sponda’s purchasing strategy is improving customer satisfaction and the quality of property maintenance. a further goal is to
create the conditions for improving the productivity of property maintenance partners and sponda’s own purchasing operations, and to ensure
that the required level of quality and service is achieved. measures in line with the objectives, and their practical implementation, are aimed at
achieving the following results and effects:


•   ensure that sponda produces high-quality property maintenance services in an optimal manner.
•   ensure that the contract models for property services are flexible and create incentives for service providers to introduce innovations that
    improve services.
•   energy efficiency and other environmental impacts will be taken into consideration and optimised in property development and renovation
    projects, as well as during the use of properties.
•   service evaluation criteria and service provider selection criteria are determined on the basis of providing incentives and guidance for
    producing good quality and improving service solutions.
•   ensure that service providers receive training and guidance on the requirements set by sponda on maintenance operations.


sponda’s contractual partners must have their own existing environmental systems and programmes that define the operating principles for
taking environmental issues into consideration and operating in accordance with procedures. contractual partners are required to take the
general objectives and operating principles defined in sponda's environmental policy into account in their operations, and consider site-specific
environmental perspectives and impacts, such as the provisions of the finnish waste act.


subcontractors must satisfy the provisions laid out in the finnish act on the contractor’s obligations and liability when work is contracted out.
as a contractor, sponda is bound by the contractor’s obligations stipulated by the aforementioned legislation.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     27

                                                                             annual report 2014 - trends and the future

cash flows between stakeholders

(share of sponda's turnover,%)




taking the industry forward
sponda is an active participant in real estate and construction industry organisations in order to enhance the operating conditions in
the industry and develop industry practices. sharing sponda’s own expertise and professional competencies is a significant aspect of
this effort.



the key aspects of the priority are:

•   active participation in development work in real estate and construction industry organisations
•   sharing expertise and professional competencies
•   sponda’s own research and development work



why is this a priority?

sponda promotes best practices in the real estate industry by participating in projects and collective activities with industry organisations and by
sharing its expertise. the industry faces many common challenges, such as those related to zoning and energy efficiency, that the companies
and industry can best overcome through co-operation.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                  28

                                                                              annual report 2014 - trends and the future

sponda also engages in its own research and development activities to create innovative and customer-focused solutions that benefit all of its
customers. sponda’s development work has a particular focus on the energy efficiency of properties, the effectiveness of customer service, and
creating the business premises of the future. sponda’s employees are active in giving lectures and presentations at industry events and
universities, which further promotes the sharing of knowledge in the industry.


sponda’s goal is to be the forefunner and the most responsible player in the real estate sector, particularly in environmental matters, such as the
mitigation of climate change. sponda also participates in the development of cities in co-operation with cities, other property owners and various
partners. the vitality of the city environment is also an important factor for the appeal and rental demand of sponda’s own properties.



developing the real estate industry

sponda participates actively in the finnish association of building owners and construction clients (rakli). the association is an opinion
leader in the real estate and construction industry, which strives to actively develop the industry, promote networking of experts and communicate
information about the economic situation.


rakli working groups aim to prevent the grey economy and determine the actual tax base of properties, as the increase in energy tax also
results in higher taxes for the real estate industry. rakli promotes healthy and safe construction by ensuring that, despite strict energy
regulations and energy conservation measures, buildings remain healthy working and living environments.


sponda aims to reduce the environmental load caused by the real estate industry by co-operating with wwf finland and through active
participation in the activities of green building council finland (figbc). sponda is one of the main partners of wwf finland. the aim of the
partnership is to promote the environmental responsibility of sponda and its client companies, particularly with respect to energy efficiency and
the sustainable use of natural resources. the goal of figbc is to promote practices for sustainable development in the real estate and
construction industry along with environmental classification of properties, to communicate information and expertise and to activate discussion.



participation in the development of cities

sponda participates in the development of cities through several different organisations. the company is a member of elävä kaupunkikeskusta
(living city centre) ry, whose goal is continuous development of city and municipal centres into more vital, comfortable and competitive
environments. as a member of helsinki city markkinointi ry and design district helsinki sponda supports the revitalization of helsinki. sponda is
also a member of the city of helsinki climate partners network aimed at co-operation to reduce climate emissions in the area.


sponda promotes responsibility in corporate activities as a member of finnish business and society ry (fibs). the company develops
consistency and transparency in financial reporting for the real estate sector through its activities in epra, the umbrella organisation for listed
european property investment companies.



sponda is involved with the following organisations:

•   wwf finland, main partner in co-operation
•   green building council finland (figbc), founding member
•   russian green building council (rugbc), member
•   rakli (the finnish association of building owners and construction clients), member
•   elävä kaupunkikeskusta (living city centre) ry, member
•   finnish business and society ry (fibs ry), member
•   finnish council of shopping centres, member
•   european real estate association (epra), member
•   helsinki city markkinointi (helsinki city marketing) ry, member
•   design district helsinki, supporting member
•   european association for investors in non-listed real estate vehicles (inrev), member
•   climate partners network of businesses and the city of helsinki, member




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                      29

                                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results


sponda’s supply chain
the contractual partners in sponda’s supply chain provide property maintenance services and participate in property repair and renovation
projects. the clients are primarily property companies owned by sponda. sponda purchases the management of property services for the
properties it owns from external property managers. these purchased services include the management of the properties’ energy efficiency,
technical building management and leasing administration services.


in the service production for its properties, sponda uses external property managers’ contractual partners that are reliable and meet the
company’s quality criteria. the normal service production for properties includes property maintenance, technical maintenance, cleaning services
and waste management.


sponda’s property managers manage the safety of properties by ensuring that the contractual obligations of the partners used by property
managers are fulfilled in accordance with occupational safety regulations at each property. sponda’s contractual partners are responsible for
fulfilling occupational safety obligations pursuant to applicable legislation.


sponda uses framework agreements to specify the general terms for its supply chain, and property managers and other contractual partners
operate according to these terms during each contract period. sponda complies with applicable legislation in all of its operations. the finnish act
on the contractor’s obligations and liability when work is contracted out sets out special obligations for contractors regarding the use of
contracting. by demanding accounts pursuant to the act on the contractor’s obligations and liability when work is contracted out, sponda as
the contractor ensures that its contractual partners operate in compliance with the law.


in sponda’s property development operations, the implementation of new construction and renovation projects involves the contractor’s
consulting services as well as consulting services in various fields, such as architecture, structural design, building technology, design of
foundation structures, and environmental certification. the required consulting services are assessed and the procurement method is determined
on a project-specific basis (framework agreement, negotiated procedure, competitive bidding or other). in projects for which international
environmental certification (leed® or breeam®) is sought, the services of a separate certification consultant are used to ensure the quality of
the certification process. the method of implementation and contracting used in projects is decided on a case-by-case basis with consideration
for each project’s special characteristics, such as scope, schedule and location. in addition to the purchasing of consulting services and
contracting services, projects may involve separate purchases that are implemented by either framework agreement partnerships or competitive
bidding.


sponda’s contractual partners must have an effective environmental system, environmental programme or similar system that defines the
general operating principles for taking environmental issues into account. each contractual partner is responsible for the operating methods and
procedures of its subcontractors. in its operations, the contractual partner takes into consideration the general objectives and operating principles
defined in the client’s and property manager’s environmental policy, and ensures that site-specific environmental perspectives and impacts are
taken into account in the performance of duties.


sponda’s supply chain operations are limited to finland, primarily the helsinki metropolitan area, tampere and oulu. sponda did not specifically
monitor the number of 2014 operators in its supply chain during the year, but counting property managers and their framework agreement
partners, the number of suppliers is in the hundreds.


sponda’s objective is to continue to develop the quality and monitoring of the services provided by its supply chain.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                 30

                                                                                 annual report 2014 - operations and results



strategic operations in 2014
sponda implemented its strategy successfully in 2014 by selling its shares in three real estate funds and 12 logistics properties – approximately
half of its logistics property portfolio – to certeum oy. with the transaction, sponda became a shareholder in certeum with a holding of 38 per
cent. sponda aims to divest its share in certeum in the future. in addition, sponda sold most of its properties in turku in 2014.


the divestments support sponda’s strategy of simplifying the business structure and focusing property ownership on lower-risk prime properties
in the helsinki metropolitan area and tampere. the proceeds from the sales were mainly used in property development projects, to acquire a
new office property in tampere, and to pay off debt.


sponda’s total revenue and net operating income declined from 2013 mainly due to property sales. in 2014, total revenue was eur 246.7 million
(2013: eur 264.3 million) and net operating income was eur 176.0 million (eur 190.9 million). in spite of the difficult market situation,
sponda’s economic occupancy rate decreased only slightly from late 2013, and cash flow remained strong. sponda also achieved its goal of
stable dividend payout and maintaining its equity ratio at above 40 per cent. the equity ratio was 41 per cent at the end of 2014.



property development projects progressing on schedule

sponda’s property development projects progressed on schedule in 2014. the most significant new property development projects are the office
properties under construction in helsinki’s ilmala and lassila districts. there were also two extensive property renovation projects underway
during the year. when completed, the property development projects will strengthen the company’s balance sheet and support profitable
growth.




action                                                                            strategic impact

change in business structure

                                                                                  with the transaction, sponda exited the real estate fund business and reduced
sponda sold 12 logistics properties and its holdings in the sponda fund i,
                                                                                  its logistics property portfolio. the transaction supports the simplification of the
sponda fund ii and sponda fund iii real estate funds to certeum oy.
                                                                                  business structure, more focused property ownership and profitable growth.

properties sold and bought

                                                                                  the sale of the properties is part of the implementation of sponda’s strategy of
sponda reduced its property ownership in turku. at the end of 2014, sponda
                                                                                  focusing property ownership on helsinki’s central business district, the helsinki
owned only two properties in the city.
                                                                                  metropolitan area and tampere.

sponda bought an office property located at åkerlundinkatu 11 a–d in central      the property purchase strengthens sponda’s strategic
tampere.                                                                          property ownership in tampere city centre.

property development

construction began in spring 2014 on the ilmalanrinne office complex in           the new low-energy building will increase sponda’s property ownership in the
helsinki’s ilmala district.                                                       growing areas of cities, with excellent public transport links.

the planning of the ratina shopping centre project in central tampere moved       the progress of the plan will support the strategic focusing of property
ahead.                                                                            ownership in tampere.

work progressed on estradi, an office building under construction in helsinki’s  the new office building, which has excellent access to public transport,
lassila district, along the kehä i ring road and hämeenlinnanväylä. the property strengthens sponda’s portfolio of energy-efficient office properties in a
will be completed in summer 2015.                                                strategically significant area.

modernisation work continued on an office building at porkkalankatu 20 in         the office building, which benefits from the excellent public transport links in
helsinki’s ruoholahti district for use by sanoma magazines finland ltd and        ruoholahti, is part of sponda’s portfolio of energy-efficient office properties in a
sanoma pro ltd. the project will be completed in spring 2015.                     strategically significant area.

refinancing and other financial arrangements

sponda plc signed an agreement with pohjola bank plc for a five-year              the loan is being used in its entirety for partially refinancing an existing
unsecured loan of eur 100 million.                                                syndicated loan that matures in november 2015.

sponda plc signed an agreement with swedbank ab (publ), finnish branch for a the loan is being used in its entirety for partially refinancing an existing
five-year unsecured loan of eur 100 million.                                 syndicated loan that matures in november 2015.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                  31

                                                                                     annual report 2014 - operations and results

business development: responsibility, the environment and the customer
experience

sponda updated its responsibility priorities based on a materiality analysis         responsibility themes that are material to the company’s operations will
conducted by the company.                                                            provide even better support to the implementation of sponda’s strategy.

                                                                                     the code of conduct and global compact lay the foundation for the
sponda drafted a code of conduct. sponda also became a signatory to the un
                                                                                     company’s responsibility efforts, the management of responsibility, and
global compact initiative.
                                                                                     stakeholder engagement.

                                                                                     increasing emphasis will be placed on environmental responsibility in sponda’s
the risks and opportunities presented by climate change were incorporated into
                                                                                     risk management process. environmental responsibility is one of sponda’s
sponda’s regular risk assessment.
                                                                                     strategic priorities.

sponda conducted a service experience survey and a qualitative customer              the surveys help sponda develop the collection and utilisation of customer
relationship survey among its customers.                                             feedback.

sponda started a development project aimed at anticipating the future customer the continued development of the crm system will improve customer
situation. the continued development of the crm system adopted in 2014 plays information management, which in turn supports the development of customer
a key role in the project.                                                     service.

sponda was awarded a green star in the gresb survey for the second year           good management and reporting of the corporate responsibility enables
running. sponda received particular recognition with respect to the management sponda to achieve its strategic goals.
of corporate responsibility as well as the management of risks and opportunities.

in 2014, sponda was ranked by the carbon disclosure project (cdp) as the best environmental responsibility is one of sponda’s strategic priorities. sponda
property investment company in the nordic region with regard to climate       supports the actions against climate change in its own operations by improving
reporting.                                                                    the energy efficiency of its properties and reducing their environmental impact.




key figures
financing key figures
                                                                                                             2014          2013          2012              2011         2010

interest cover ratio (icr)                                                                                     3.3            3.1            2.8            2.7           3.0

average loan maturity, yrs                                                                                     2.1            2.5            2.7            3.1           3.2

average fixed interest rate period, yrs                                                                        2.3            2.3            1.9            2.2           2.2

average interest rate,%                                                                                        2.9            3.2            3.4            4.0           3.8

hedging rate of interest risk,%                                                                                 76                79          72            77            84

equity ratio,%                                                                                                  41                41         411)           38            39


1) 2012 figures were adjusted following the voluntary amendment of accounting principles with regard to ias 12 and the amendment of ias 19




group´s key figures
                                                                   31 dec 2014           31 dec 2013           31 dec 2012             31 dec 2011                31 dec 2010

total revenue, m€                                                          246.7                 264.3                 264.6                    248.2                   232.1

operating profit, m€                                                       151.7                 153.0                       1)                 209.6                   216.2
                                                                                                                     210.5

profit before taxes, m€                                                     95.7                  93.2               151.81)                    134.0                   157.7

cash flow from operations/share, €                                          0.37                  0.40                  0.40                        0.37                 0.37

nav/share, €                                                                4.65                  4.64                 4.451)                       4.06                 3.86

earnings/share, €                                                           0.24                  0.34                 0.371)                       0.39                 0.40

return on investment, %                                                        5.4                  5.5                 7.91)                        7.7                  7.9

p/e ratio                                                                  14.98                 10.16                 9.711)                       8.02                 9.60

equity ratio, %                                                             41.0                  40.7                 41.21)                       37.9                 39.0




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                         32

                                                                                         annual report 2014 - operations and results

gearing, %                                                                      121.2                 125.6                117.91)                  134.9                  128.7

dividend, €                                                                    0.193)                  0.18                   0.17                   0.16                    0.15

payout ratio, %                                                               78.603)                 53.49                45.861)                  41.15                  37.12

effective dividend yield, %                                                    5.253)                  5.26                   4.72                   5.13                    3.87



key figures according to epra best practices recommendations
                                                                    31 dec 2014            31 dec 2013             31 dec 2012             31 dec 2011             31 dec 2010

epra earnings, m€                                                           101.6                 111.52)              111.91) 2)                   75.4                     74.0

epra earnings per share, €                                                   0.36                  0.392)               0.401) 2)                   0.27                     0.27

epra nav/share, €                                                            5.45                  5.292)               5.201) 2)                   4.84                     4.59

epra net initial yield (niy), %                                              5.18                    5.84                   6.61                    6.39                     6.37

epra "topped-up" niy, %                                                      5.19                    5.84                   6.63                    6.40                     6.38



1) 2012 figure was adjusted following the voluntary amendment of accounting principles with regard to ias 12 and the amendment of ias 19

2) in 2013, sponda has changed the calculation and the presentation of epra key figures to match better to the epra best practices recommendations.

3) board´s proposal



responsibility key figures
enhancing the customer experience                                                                                                                                          2014

          overall satisfaction index regarding co-operation with the lessor1)                                                                                                3.67

personnel

          people power index2)                                                                                                                                               70.5


environmental responsibility 3)

          energy consumption, kwh/gfam²                                                                                                                                    203.1

          carbon footprint, kg co2/gfam²                                                                                                                                     34.4

          waste recovery rate, %                                                                                                                                             96.0

          waste recycling rate, %                                                                                                                                            44.0

          water consumption, l/gfam²                                                                                                                                       246.8


1)
     based on sponda’s annual service experience study for customers. the index includes five indicators that are equally weighted on a scale of 1–5: sponda’s ability to make

decisions, sponda’s ability to realise matters agreed on, the professional skills and expertise of sponda’s contact persons, the reachability of sponda’s personnel, and

sponda’s ability to recognise the customer’s needs.
2)
     the index is calculated from the personnel survey that measures the commitment of personnel, the quality of management, organisational effectiveness and the level of

dedication of personnel at sponda on a scale of 0 to 100. the index provides an overall view of the state of sponda as an organisation and its capability to take on challenges.
3)
     sponda’s properties in finland




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                             33

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results



key figures in graphs




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   34

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   35

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   36

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results




business units in brief
sponda is organised in three business units: investment properties, property development and russia.


investment properties

the investment properties business unit is divided into three segments: office properties, shopping centres and logistics properties. the
investment properties unit leases office, retail, shopping centre and logistics premises as well as purchases and sells properties in finland.


the office properties are primarily located in the helsinki’s central business district, the helsinki metropolitan area and tampere. the shopping
centres are located in helsinki, the tampere region and the oulu region. the logistics properties are primarily located in the helsinki metropolitan
area.


according to its strategy, the company is planning to divest its entire logistics property portfolio as well as property ownership in turku within 2-4
years. going forward, the company will focus on office premises and shopping centres in prime areas in helsinki and tampere.


2014 key figures

                                                                                                  office             shopping                 logistics
                                                                                              properties              centres                properties

net operating income, m€                                                                           103.0                   35.2                    18.9

occupancy rate,%                                                                                     88.5                  91.2                    64.9

leasable area, m²                                                                                766,500                151,000                 248,500




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                    37

                                                                           annual report 2014 - operations and results

share of total portfolio by fair value,%                                                            59                      23                       7




property development

the property development business unit is responsible for the company’s property development projects in finland. business premises are
developed by renovating properties in the portfolio, or developing new properties on land areas owned by sponda. the company is also active on
the markets to identify properties with development potential.


2014 key figures

investments, m€                                                                                                                                21.1

balance sheet value of property development portfolio, m€                                                                                     133.1

share of total portfolio by fair value,%                                                                                                             4




russia

sponda’s russia business unit leases, manages and develops business premises in russia for use by companies and organisations. sponda
owns three office properties, two shopping centres, a logistics property and two land areas, all in the moscow and st. petersburg regions. in line
with its strategy, sponda plans to divest its russian operations within the next 2-4 years.


2014 key figures

net operating income, m€                                                                                                                       15.8

occupancy rate,%                                                                                                                               90.4

leasable area, m²                                                                                                                            44,500

land areas, hectares                                                                                                                           66.0

share of total portfolio by fair value,%                                                                                                             7




real estate funds

sponda was a non-controlling holder in four real estate funds until 30 september 2014. at the end of september 2014, sponda sold its shares in
sponda fund i, sponda fund ii and sponda fund iii to certeum oy.


key figures

                                                                                      2014         2013           2012           2011          2010

total revenue, m€                                                                       4.9          6.8            6.5           6.4           7.2

operating expenses, m€                                                                 -0.8         -1.6           -1.3          -1.4           -1.5

net operating income, m€                                                                4.1          5.2            5.2           5.0           5.7




management fees and share of profit                                                                              1-12/2014                1-12/2013

management fees                                                                                                           4.9                   6.8

realised gains by real estate funds                                                                                       5.5                  10.7

total                                                                                                                 10.4                     17.5




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                38

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results


investment properties in 2014
sponda’s investment properties business unit is responsible for the leasing, purchase and sales of office, retail and logistics
properties. the year 2014 was a challenging one for the leasing market, but a busy one with respect to purchases and sales.


sponda’s office properties and retail premises are primarily located in the helsinki city centre, the helsinki metropolitan area and tampere. in
finland sponda owns five shopping centres, which are located in helsinki and in the districts of tampere and oulu. the largest of these is the
citycenter property in helsinki’s central business district.


the investment properties segment’s total revenue in 2014 was eur 218.4 million and the economic occupancy rate was 86.7 per cent at year
end. economic uncertainty made the leasing market challenging, and sponda fell short of its targeted economic occupancy rate. the factors
contributing to this include the decreased need for business premises as companies reduce personnel, the dragging on of decision-making
regarding business premises, and the transformation of the retail sector, where traditional retail is threatened by the growth of online retail. at the
same time, the amount of vacant premises on the market increased. there was also an increase in bankruptcies and debt structuring among the
customer base.



strategic property investment

the implementation of sponda’s strategy proceeded as planned in 2014. in september, the company divested its real estate fund business and
sold 12 logistics properties to certeum, a new investment company focused on logistics and industrial properties, for eur 216.7 million.


in line with its strategy, sponda reduced its property ownership also in turku during the year. at the end of 2014, sponda owned only two
properties in turku. in july sponda purchased an office property located in central tampere from ubs real estate kapitalanlagegesellschaft
mbh for eur 63.7 million. the property is almost fully occupied. the acquisition supports sponda’s growth in tampere.


at the end of 2014, the total fair value of sponda’s finnish property portfolio comprised 67 per cent office properties, 26 per cent shopping
centres and 7 per cent logistics properties. properties were sold at a value of eur 237.3 million during the year (2013: eur 23.1 million). the
company invested eur 41.5 million in property maintenance and improving the quality of properties during the year (eur 22.3 million).


sponda expects the market to remain challenging in 2015. sponda’s key goals include improving the economic occupancy rate and selling
logistics properties as well as properties located in turku.


office properties, key figures
                                                                            2014               2013             2012             2011               2010

total revenue, m€                                                           141.8              143.0           143.9             132.8              122.6

operating expenses, m€                                                      -38.8              -39.0           -39.0             -37.2              -34.0

net operating income, m€                                                    103.0              104.0           104.9              95.6               88.6

fair value of properties, m€                                              1,853.5           1,753.3          1,705.7           1,644.0            1,459.1

epra, net initial yield,%                                                     5.4                6.2               6.3             6.0



10 largest office properties 2014

property                                                               location                                                          leasable area m2

helsingin salmisaarentalo koy                                          porkkalankatu 13                    helsinki                                49,202

kaupintie 3 koy                                                        kaupintie 3                         helsinki                                44,103

kilon ritari                                                           kutojantie 2                        espoo                                   28,558

unioninkatu 20-22 koy                                                  unioninkatu 20-22                   helsinki                                24,777

arkadiankatu 4-6 koy                                                   arkadiankatu 6                      helsinki                                21,881

tulli 1 koy                                                            åkerlundinkatu 11 a-d               tampere                                 20,572




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     39

                                                                  annual report 2014 - operations and results

espoon upseerinkatu 1-3 koy                                 upseerinkatu 1-3                       espoo                          19,951

helsingin kaivokatu 8 koy (office properties)               kaivokatu 8                            helsinki                       19,838

kasarmikatu 36 koy                                          kasarmikatu 36                         helsinki                       17,063

länsi-keskus koy                                            pihatörmä 1                            espoo                          15,737



geographical location of office properties by fair value
location                                                                                                                              %

helsinki, cbd                                                                                                                      41.34

helsinki, ruoholahti                                                                                                                23.7

elsewhere in helsinki metropolitan area                                                                                            25.41

tampere                                                                                                                             8.34

turku                                                                                                                               0.65

oulu                                                                                                                                0.56



shopping centres, key figures
                                                                              2014         2013               2012    2011         2010

total revenue, m€                                                              45.8         45.9               42.0    40.4         39.7

operating expenses, m€                                                        -10.6        -11.0               -9.7    -8.8         -8.3

net operating income, m€                                                       35.2         34.9               32.3    31.7         31.4

fair value of properties, m€                                                  726.0        717.5              736.7   586.1        557.1

epra, net initial yield,%                                                       4.7          4.4                6.1     6.7



shopping centres 2014

property                                                   location                                                     leasable area m2

citycenter                                                 helsinki                                        helsinki               27,610

        helsingin kaivokatu 8 koy                          kaivokatu 8                                     helsinki               22,074

        aleksi-hermes koy                                  aleksanterinkatu 19                             helsinki                3,931

        kaivokadun tunneli oy                              asematunneli                                    helsinki                1,605

helsingin itämerenkatu 21 koy                              itämerenkatu 21                                 helsinki               32,458

kauppakeskus zeppelin                                      zeppeliinintie 1                                kempele                27,964

elovainion kauppakiinteistöt koy                           elotie 1                                        ylöjärvi               23,982

helsingin vanhanlinnantie 3 koy                            vanhanlinnantie 3                               helsinki                20,05

heimola koy (retail premises)                              yliopistonkatu 5                                helsinki                3,724

hämeenkatu 20 koy (retail premises)                        hämeenkatu 20                                   tampere                 3,561

kauppa-häme koy (retail premises)                          hämeenkatu 16                                   tampere                 3,384

tampere / ii / 9 / 9 kauppakeskus (retail premises)        hämeenkatu 18 / kauppakatu 3                    tampere                 2,549

mansku 4 koy (retail premises)                             mannerheimintie 4                               helsinki                1,958

keskuskatu 1 b koy (retail premises)                       keskuskatu 1 b                                  helsinki                1,355

mannerheimintie 6 koy (retail premises)                    mannerheimintie 6                               helsinki                1,219

bulevardi 1 koy (retail premises)                          bulevardi 1/mannerheimintie 2                   helsinki                1,190




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                    40

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




     218.4
     the investment properties segment’s
     total revenue in 2014 was eur 218.4
                    million




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   41

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   42

                                                                              annual report 2014 - operations and results


property development in 2014
sponda’s property development business unit is responsible for the company’s property development projects in finland. in 2014,
sponda moved forward with its property development operations in line with previously set objectives.


sponda seeks growth and profitability through active property development. business premises are developed by renovating properties in the
portfolio, or developing new properties on land areas owned by sponda. all properties are developed for long-term ownership and leasing.


in 2014, there were large-scale searches for premises in new and existing office properties in the market, but companies were cautious about
making business premises decisions and investments. sponda performed well in a highly competitive market, and the company’s projects
constituted significant part of the few new property development projects in helsinki.



significant new property development projects in ilmala and lassila

sponda moved ahead with a number of property development and renovation projects in 2014. construction began in spring 2014 on the
ilmalanrinne office complex in helsinki’s ilmala district. the office complex will be situated in a prominent location with excellent transport links,
with the first section to be completed at the beginning of 2016. the project is one of the largest ongoing projects in the helsinki metropolitan area.
at the end of 2014, the pre-let rate for ilmalanrinne stood at 97 per cent.


sponda’s second new property development project in progress is estradi, an office building in helsinki’s lassila district, along the kehä i ring
road and hämeenlinnanväylä. the building will be completed in summer 2015 and the pre-let rate at the end of 2014 was approximately 50 per
cent.


planning for the ratina shopping centre project in the central business district of tampere continued, but the final decision to invest was not yet
made in 2014.



modern office space through renovation

the most significant renovation projects during the year were the modernisation of an office building at porkkalankatu 20 in helsinki’s ruoholahti
district, the renovation of keskuskatu 1 b to create modern office space, and the partial renovation of arkadiankatu 2. the office building in
ruoholahti is renovated for the use by sanoma magazines finland ltd and sanoma pro ltd and it will be completed in spring 2015.


the value of sponda’s property development portfolio stood at eur 133.1 million at year end 2014 (2013: eur 108.2 million). of this amount,
land value represented eur 49.8 million and property development projects eur 83.3 million.


sponda’s growth prospects are in line with the outlook of the finnish economy and, as such, the company does not expect significant growth in
2015. nevertheless, sponda aims to launch new property development projects also in 2015.


development properties’
ready-to-start projects in the marketing

office properties                                                                                                          city                floor m2

forum virium center                                                                                                     helsinki                  14,000

estradi                                                                                                                 helsinki                   5,000

aviapolis                                                                                                               vantaa                    18,000

energiakatu                                                                                                             helsinki                  10,000

harkkokuja                                                                                                              vantaa                    18,000

avec 2                                                                                                                   espoo                    12,000

ilmalanrinne                                                                                                            helsinki                  14,000

väritehtaankatu                                                                                                         vantaa                    13,000




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     43

                                                                          annual report 2014 - operations and results

naulakatu                                                                                                          tampere                6,000



retail properties

välivainio                                                                                                            oulu               13,000



shopping centres

shopping centre ratina                                                                                             tampere               55,000


the start of the projects requires at least a pre-let of 50 per cent and an investment decision of the company.


investments to active property development projects
                                                                              ilmalanrinne       estradi     keskuskatu 1 b    porkkalankatu 20

total investment, m€                                                                   57.2         10.6                7.05                7.5

remaining investment to be made, m€                                                    41.8          5.8                 5.5               2.97

capitalised interest expenses by 31 december 2014, m€                                   0.4          0.1                0.03               0.21

time of completion                                                          december 2015     june 2015       september 2015          april 2015




             133.1
         the value of sponda’s property
         development portfolio stood at
       eur 133.1 million at year end 2014.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                            44

                                                              annual report 2014 - operations and results



russia in figures
properties in russia 2014

property                       location                                                                      leasable area m2

western realty                 gasheka street 7                              moscow                                    14,507

sun paradise 1                 borovskoe highway 6                           moscow                                     9,090

adastra ooo                    zanevka                                       st. petersburg                             7,872

sun paradise 2                 vokzalnaja ul. 4b, ramenskoe                  moscow                                     6,571

bakhrushina house              bakhrushina street 32                         moscow                                     3,875

ancor                          prospekt mira 6                               moscow                                     2,785



key figures, russia, m€
                                                                     2014             2013    2012         2011         2010

total revenue, m€                                                    22.2              28.6    28.7        25.1          23.6

operating expenses, m€                                                -6.4             -6.8    -6.5        -6.1          -5.9

net operating income, m€                                             15.8              21.8    22.2        18.9          17.7

fair value of properties, m€                                        224.4             247.8   269.4       224.6         204.2

epra, net initial yield,%                                             6.0               8.0     9.2         9.8




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents         45

                                                                           annual report 2014 - operations and results




business environment
macroeconomic outlook

according to the economic survey of the ministry of finance, growth in the euro area is expected to remain slow. the growth rate in 2014
amounted to a mere per cent and the outlook for 2015 is only slightly better. given the weaker growth expectations in germany, for example,
growth in the euro area during the next two years is expected to be approximately 1.5 per cent.


according to the ministry’s projection, finland's gdp turned to a slight increase during the fourth quarter of 2014. in terms of the entire year, the
gross domestic product is projected to rise by 0.1 per cent, whereas in 2013, finland’s gdp declined by 1.2 per cent. the turn in 2014 was
brought about particularly by growth in net exports.


in 2015, finland’s gdp is projected to grow by 0.9 per cent. in addition to exports, the growth is spurred, to some extent, by increasing private
consumption, imports and private investments. however, even if economic activities will gradually pick up, the mismatch problems between
supply and demand will continue to sustain long-term unemployment. development in the productivity of labour will also remain modest. inflation
is expected to remain at 0.8 per cent.



the transaction market

the property transaction market in 2014 was considerably more active than in the year before. according to kti property information, the
transaction volume for 2014 was roughly eur 4.26 billion, which is as much as 79 per cent more than in 2013 (eur 2.38 billion). the last time
the transaction market was this brisk was in 2008, when the volume stood at eur 4.15 billion. transactions in the helsinki metropolitan area
accounted for 54 per cent of the entire transaction volume during the year in review.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                    46

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results

international investment demand was strong in 2014. six new foreign property investors entered the finnish market, and international operators’
share of the entire year’s acquisitions was approximately 35 per cent. business in 2015 is expected to be brisk, and several major transactions
are already under way.



office space

the amount of new office space in 2014 lagged behind the figures of the previous year. less than 60,000 square metres of new office space was
completed by the end of the year in terms of the office market in the helsinki metropolitan area, for example, whereas the corresponding figure in
2013 was 80,000 square metres.


the difficult economic situation resulted in an increase in vacancy rates in the helsinki metropolitan area in the second half of 2014. according to
catella, the area’s average vacancy rate stood at 12.5 per cent at the end of the year, compared to 12.4 per cent a year earlier. in helsinki’s
central business district, the vacancy rate turned to a decline of 0.7 percentage points in the second half of the year. at the end of 2014, the
vacancy rate in helsinki’s central business district was 7.8 per cent. the vacancy rates of offices are not expected to undergo major changes in
2015.


the rental levels of office space per square metre ranged between eur 120 and eur 378 a year in the entire helsinki metropolitan area and
between eur 204 and eur 378 a year in helsinki’s central business district. rental levels in the various office clusters in the helsinki
metropolitan area diverged from one another in 2014. whereas prime rental levels in helsinki’s central business district increased, in other areas
they declined slightly from the year before.


in tampere, turku and oulu, the market situation was visible as an increase in vacancies. at the end of 2014, vacancy rates were 10.7 per cent
in tampere, 9.7 per cent in turku and 12.8 per cent in oulu. average rental levels in turku and oulu remained unchanged. in tampere, rental
levels increased slightly. rental levels per square metre per year varied from eur 156 to eur 192 in turku, from eur 168 to eur 216 in
tampere and from eur 144 to eur 180 in oulu.



retail space

in the helsinki metropolitan area, the vacancy rates of retail space increased somewhat, and stood at 4.8 per cent at the end of 2014. the
occupancy rate is expected to remain at a fairly high level in 2015 due to the area’s net migration and the limited supply of new retail space.
approximately 30,000 square metres of new retail space was completed in the helsinki metropolitan area in 2014.


in 2014, the vacancy rates for retail space were 6.5 per cent in turku, 4.1 per cent in tampere and 3.3 per cent in oulu.


in helsinki’s central business district, the market rent levels of retail space declined in 2014. at the turn of the year, rental levels per square metre
were eur 720–1,800 a year. in other major cities, the minimum level of rental levels declined. in turku, the rental levels of retail space ranged
from eur 300 to eur 960. in tampere they were between eur 540 and eur 960 and in oulu eur 480–1,020 per square metre per year.


retail space vacancy rates are not expected to undergo major changes in 2015.



logistics properties

the market for logistics properties was calm during the year in review. at the end of 2014, the average rental level of logistics properties per
square metre in the helsinki metropolitan area was eur 102 a year, remaining roughly on a par with the year before.


vacancy rates rose slightly, and stood at 6.9 per cent at the turn of the year. some 15,000 square metres’ worth of new logistics space came to
the market. this is roughly equal to the amount of new space introduced during the previous year.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     47

                                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results

russia

according to a world bank forecast, russian gdp grew by 0.7 per cent in 2014. in 2015, the country’s gdp is expected to contract by 2.9 per
cent, although russia’s volatile economic situation renders any projections uncertain. the economic downswing is the result of geopolitical
tensions, the economic sanctions against russia and the development of oil prices.


the decline in the value of the rouble and the resulting increase in uncertainty slowed down the property transactions market in russia in the
fourth quarter of 2014. according to cbre’s data, the transaction volume for the fourth quarter stood at usd 0.35 billion, while the transaction
volume for the entire year stood at usd 3.5 billion. the pace of transactions fell by half compared to 2013, when the volume was approximately
usd 7 billion.


further according to cbre, the average vacancy rates of office space in moscow rose to 16.6 per cent by the end of 2014. at the turn of the
year, the vacancy rate for a class office spaces was approximately 28 per cent and the vacancy rate for b class spaces approximately 12.8 per
cent. decreased demand and the massive volume of newly constructed premises create upward pressure on vacancy rates and downward
pressure on rents.


some 1.4 million square metres of new office space was completed in moscow in 2014. the last time this much new space was completed was
in 2009. more than half of the spaces completed were a class offices.




sources:


statistics finland, quarterly national accounts 3/2014

ministry of finance – economic survey, winter 2014

kti property information – transactions information service, market slides

catella – slides for the market review of spring 2015


world bank – global economic prospects, january 2015

cbre – q4 investment market and q4 moscow office market




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                   48

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   49

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   50

                                                                                  annual report 2014 - operations and results



property assets
investment properties of sponda 1 jan–31 dec 2014, m€
                                                                                     office      shopping          logistics       property
                                                                        total                                                                  russia
                                                                                 properties       centres         properties   development

operating income                                                       240.9         141.7             45.8             30.8             0.4     22.2

maintenance costs                                                       -69.4         -38.8           -10.6            -11.8            -1.8     -6.4

net operating income                                                   171.5         103.0             35.2             18.9            -1.4     15.8



investment properties at 1 jan 2014                                3,253.3          1,753.3           717.5           426.5            108.2    247.8

capitalized interest 2014                                                 0.3           0.1             0.0              0.0             0.2      0.0

acquisitions                                                            65.0           65.0             0.0              0.0             0.0      0.0

investments                                                             64.0           36.5             4.7              1.3            21.1      0.4

transfers between segments                                                0.0           0.0             0.0              0.0             0.0      0.0

sales                                                                  -236.6         -19.9             0.0           -216.7             0.0      0.0

change in fair value                                                     -3.9          18.5             3.8             -6.0             3.6    -23.8

investment properties at                                           3,142.1          1,853.5           726.0           205.1            133.1    224.4
31 dec 2014



change in fair value,%                                                   -0.1           1.1             0.5             -1.4             3.3     -9.6



weighted average                                                        6.61           6.34            5.72             8.32           0,00     10.21
yield requirement,%

weighted average                                                        6.33
yield requirement,% finland



maintenance investments                                                 42.0           34.4             4.7              2.4             0.1      0.4

property development                                                    22.0            2.1             0.0             -1.1            21.0      0.0

acquisitions                                                            65.0           65.0             0.0              0.0             0.0      0.0

sales                                                                  -236.6         -19.9             0.0           -216.7             0.0      0.0

investments, total                                                     -107.6          81.6             4.7           -215.4            21.1      0.4



yield requirements used in valuation of investment properties 31 december 2014
                                                             helsinki cbd            other helsinki           espoo/vantaa     other finland   russia

office- and retail premises,%                                              5.5                  6.2                    8.4               7.0     10.2

logistics premises,%                                                                            8.0                    8.5             11.8      11.0



the average yield requirement for shopping centres was 5.7 per cent.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                 51

                                                                                         annual report 2014 - operations and results


sensitivity analysis

change in investment property fair value, m€ and%
                                                           -10%                             -5%                 0%               5%                             10%

                                                 change, m€       change,%       change, m€       change,% m€         change, m€       change,%       change, m€       change,%

yield requirement                                          332           10.6              157            5.0    0             -143           -4.6             -272           -8.7

rental income (contractual rents)                          -85           -2.7              -43           -1.4    0               42            1.3               84            2.7

maintenance expenses                                        85            2.7               42            1.3    0              -43           -1.4              -86           -2.8

economic occupancy rate (1st year)                         -25           -0.8              -13           -0.4    0               12            0.4               24            0.8



the sensitivity analysis has been carried out as a quantitative analysis of the investment properties in finland calculating the 15 year cash flow and of the properties in russia

calculating the 10 year cash flow.

the changes in yield requirements and economic occupancy rates have been calculated for average figures. the analysis includes only investment properties generating cash

flows.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                               52

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   53

                                                                                    annual report 2014 - operations and results


reliable co-operation with stakeholders
sponda has several stakeholder groups who all have different expectations of sponda. the company strives to meet these expectations in
accordance with its values and procedures. the aim is active and open dialogue, based on reliability and integrity.


the table below summarises sponda’s key stakeholders, their expectations of sponda and the measures sponda takes to meet these
expectations. for additional information on stakeholders, see the company website.


stakeholder
                  expectations towards sponda                                       sponda's actions
group


                   •   permanent employment and stable income
                                                                                     •   offering good work opportunities
                   •   safe working conditions
                                                                                     •   good opportunities for training
                   •   being informed of matters concerning the company
                                                                                     •   effective internal communications and an atmosphere of open dialogue
                   •   opportunities for personal development at work
personnel                                                                            •   ensuring occupational health and safety
                   •   equal and non-discriminatory treatment
                                                                                     •   appraisal discussions and job satisfaction surveys
                   •   open communication
                                                                                     •   equal and non-discriminatory treatment of employees
                   •   good reputation


customers          •   high-quality energy-efficient business premises               •   offering practical, adaptable and energy-efficient business premises
                   •   facility services                                             •   developing customer service channels and services
                   •   good customer service                                         •   maintaining regular contact with customers
                   •   taking environmental responsibility into consideration        •   creating the conditions for long-term partnerships
                   •   long-term partnerships                                        •   guiding customers towards operations that conserve energy and the
                                                                                         environment


investors and      •   dividend yield                                                •   highly competent rental organisation
owners             •   risk management                                               •   competitive dividend policy
                   •   responsible and transparent operations                        •   reliable and transparent financial reporting
                   •   increase in shareholder value                                 •   identification of risks and reaction on them
                   •   reliable information on the company


financiers         •   achieving financial targets                                   •   effective management of financial risks
                                                                                     •   maintaining a reputation as a responsible debtor


subcontractors     •   equal treatment of subcontractors                             •   effective purchasing and quality processes
                   •   adherence to agreements                                       •   monitoring and steering the work and quality of subcontractors
                   •   long-term subcontractor relationships


media              •   active, open and responsive communications                    •   timely, reliable and open communications
                   •   reliable information on the company                           •   developing and expanding communications channels


society and        •   compliance with legislation and other regulations issued      •   monitoring legislative developments and introducing the company’s
the authorities        by the authorities                                                perspective to the discussion
                   •   responsible and transparent operations                        •   participation in the development of cities
                   •   paying taxes                                                  •   improving the energy efficiency of business premises
                                                                                     •   providing jobs


organisations      •   participation in the activities of industry organisations     •   active involvement in various organisations
                   •   dialogue                                                      •   developing the industry in partnership with industry organisations


other              •   providing opportunities for internships and thesis writing    •   providing study opportunities to students in the field of real estate
stakeholders,      •   participation in the industry’s research and development      •   joint projects with educational institutions in the field of real estate
such as                activities
educational
institutions
and various
research and
development
organisations




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                    54

                                                                                     annual report 2014 - operations and results


responsibility targets and actions
energy and environmental efficiency
                     targets 2014                                          results 2014                                         targets 2015



                                                          the total comparable energy consumption of          the total comparable energy consumption
                                                          the finnish properties owned by sponda              (electricity, heating, district cooling) will
                                                          decreased by 2.0 per cent in 2014 compared to       decrease from the 2014 level. concerning
  the comparable consumption of heating and               the year 2013.                                      electricity and cooling, the combined effect will
  water and the combined effect of the                                                                        be taken into account. also the comparable
  consumption of electricity and cooling in finnish                                                           water consumption will decrease from the 2014
  properties will decline                                                                                     level. the carbon dioxide (co2) emissions
                                                                                                              caused by the entire energy consumption will
                                                                                                              decrease from the level reported in the 2014
                                                                                                              annual report.


  adoption of measurement guidelines                      not carried out in 2014.


  launch of the renewable energy sources demo             not carried out in 2014.
  project


                                                          in 2014, the electricity consumption of sponda’s    the energy consumption of sponda’s head
                                                          head office increased by 3.7 per cent,              office will decrease from the 2013 level. the
                                                          (normalised) heating consumption increased by       year of comparison is 2013 due to renovations
  sponda’s head office’s consumption of
                                                          1.1 per cent, measured heating consumption          and water damage dehumidification that took
  electricity, heating, district cooling and water will
                                                          decreased by 1.7 per cent, and district cooling     place in 2014.
  be reduced.
                                                          consumption increased by 8.1 per cent. the
                                                          water consumption of the head office
                                                          decreased by 3.6 per cent compared to 2013.


                                                          in 2014, the electricity consumption of sponda’s    the consumption of electricity and water will
  the consumption of electricity and water will           office properties in russia decreased by 6.1 per    decrease in three of sponda’s properties in
  decrease in three russian office properties.            cent and water consumption decreased by 6.3         russia.
                                                          per cent.


                                                          the active environmental certification of           sponda will apply for certification of all new
                                                          buildings continued in 2014. at the end of 2014,    building sites and large basic repair sites.
  environmental certification work will continue
                                                          the company had a total of 5 active certification   during 2015, environmental certification will be
  and preliminary analyses will be conducted for
                                                          processes underway for newly constructed and        achieved for at least one new building site.
  new projects.
                                                          renovated properties.                               during 2015, environmental certification will be
                                                                                                              achieved for at least one basic repair site.


                                                          the final waste recovery rate at the properties     the waste recovery rate will remain at the level
  the waste recovery rate at sponda’s properties          in finland rose to 96 per cent.                     of 96 per cent achieved in 2014. the waste
  in finland will remain at the year end 2013                                                                 recycling and recovery rate in sponda’s
  level, at 87 per cent.                                                                                      properties in finland will be 50 per cent by the
                                                                                                              end of 2015.


                                                          in 2014, the amount of office waste generated       the waste recycling and recovery rate of
                                                          at sponda’s head office increased to 14.0           sponda’s head office will, at minimum, remain
  the volume of office waste at sponda’s head
                                                          tonnes (2013: 12.1). exception was caused by        at the level of 61 per cent achieved in 2014.
  office will be reduced.
                                                          the relocation operations and renovation work
                                                          carried out in the building.


                                                          at the end of the year, the total number of         the objective in 2015 is to establish at least two
                                                          environmental partnerships was 22, in line with     new environmental partnerships, while also
                                                          the previously set target.                          deepening co-operation with current partners.
                                                                                                              the objective is also to reduce the
  the number of environmental partnerships will
                                                                                                              environmental impact of partners by active and
  increase to 22 by the end of 2014.
                                                                                                              regular follow-up and reporting on the action
                                                                                                              plans of sponda’s environmental partners
                                                                                                              during 2015. in addition one green lease
                                                                                                              contract will be concluded in 2015.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                 55

                                                                                 annual report 2014 - operations and results

property locations
                            long-term objectives                                                                   results 2014



                                                                                    in line with its strategic objectives, sponda increased the share of
  increasing the share of shopping centres and office properties in the             shopping centres and office properties in its property portfolio. sponda sold
  company’s property portfolio.                                                     logistics properties to certeum oy and purchased an office building in
                                                                                    tampere.


                                                                                    in 2014, sponda continued to implement its strategy, which was revised in
                                                                                    autumn 2013, by increasingly focusing its property portfolio on prime areas
  developing the property portfolio by concentrating on prime areas and
                                                                                    with good public transport links in the helsinki metropolitan area and
  locations with good public transport links.
                                                                                    tampere. sponda sold properties in turku and purchased an office
                                                                                    building in tampere.




enhancing the customer experience
                   targets 2014                                           results 2014                                           targets 2015



  developing customer data management and, in           crm system was adopted as part of customer             quantitative and qualitative development of
  particular, securing the success of the adoption      relationship management.                               customer communications.
  of the crm solution.


                                                        the collection and utilisation of customer
  developing customer feedback collection and           feedback was developed in 2014 by conducting
  utilisation as part of customer data                  two separate customer feedback surveys: a
  management.                                           service experience study and a qualitative
                                                        customer relationship study.


  developing the electronic customer service            in 2014, various online and mobile services            renewing sponda's website and providing an
  environment.                                          were developed for clients.                            even better online customer experience.


                                                        in 2014, the service experience study, which           overall satisfaction with co-operation with the
                                                        was conducted electronically, focused on the           lessor to remain at least at the same level as in
                                                        real estate users' experiences of the services         2014.
  the evaluation and utilisation of new service         for leased premises, the functionality of the
  innovations.                                          premises and their maintenance. based on the
                                                        results, sponda developed its customer
                                                        relationship management operations and
                                                        service process.




investing in employees
                   targets 2014                                           results 2014                                           targets 2015



                                                        in 2014, the sharing of best practices and             operating models for the sharing of knowledge
  develop internal operating models to increase         know-how was promoted by organising several            and best practices will be developed further.
  the sharing of best practices and know-how.           internal information and training events on
                                                        topics such as legal and environmental issues.


                                                        the implementation of a new enterprise                 the different features of the new enterprise
                                                        resource planning system was an important              resource planning system will be used more
  continue the development of tools and systems         milestone related to the development of tools          efficiently in everyday work.
  to support employees’ work and the                    and systems. the deployment of the system
  achievement of goals.                                 began by first training a group of administrative
                                                        users, who then trained smaller groups of
                                                        employees on the use of the new system.


                                                        the working environment was developed                  management and evaluation of competences
  continue to develop the working environment in        particularly at the helsinki office, where a part      that support the implementation of the company
  co-operation with personnel in such a way that        of premises were renovated and workstations            strategy.
  it better supports the performance of work and        were rearranged to better support operations.
  the achievement of the company’s goals.               the rearranging of workstations emphasised
                                                        functionality and the smooth flow of information.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                               56

                                                                                  annual report 2014 - operations and results

transparent and ethical operations
                    targets 2014                                          results 2014                                          targets 2015



                                                         during the year, sponda aimed to increase
    increasing customer dialogue in all customer
                                                         customer dialogue in customer meetings and all
    service channels.
                                                         customer service channels.


                                                         in 2014, sponda drafted a code of conduct             implementing the code of conduct and the un
                                                         that lays the foundation for the company’s            global compact with personnel and interest
                                                         responsibility efforts, the management of             groups.
                                                         responsibility, and stakeholder relations.


                                                         in 2014, sponda signed the un global                  implementing the code of conduct and the un
                                                         compact initiative and committed to its ten           global compact with personnel and interest
                                                         principles related to human rights, labour, the       groups.
                                                         environment, and anti-corruption.




taking the industry forward
                             long-term objectives                                                                 results 2014



    sponda promotes best practices in the property sector by being an active         sponda was an active participant in the operations of the finnish
    participant in the activities and projects of organisations such as the          association of building owners and construction clients (rakli) in 2014.
    finnish association of building owners and construction clients rakli
    and epra, the umbrella organisation for listed european property
    investment companies.




energy and environmental efficiency
objectives for 2014

energy efficiency and the carbon footprint

•   the comparable consumption of heating and water and the combined effect of the consumption of electricity and cooling in finnish properties
    will decline
•   adoption of measurement guidelines
•   launch of the renewable energy sources demo project
•   sponda’s head office’s consumption of electricity, heating, district cooling and water will be reduced
•   the consumption of electricity and water will decrease in three russian office properties
•   environmental certification work will continue and preliminary analyses will be conducted for new projects


material efficiency

•   the waste recovery rate at sponda’s properties in finland will remain at the year end 2013 level, at 87 per cent.
•   the volume of office waste at sponda’s head office will be reduced.


environmental co-operation with clients

•   the number of environmental partnerships will increase to 22 by the end of 2014.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                57

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results

measures taken in 2014

progress of sponda’s energy efficiency programme

at the end of 2014, sponda’s energy efficiency programme covered 113 (2013: 109) properties, which means that as many as 88 per cent of
sponda's wholly-owned properties in finland are included in the programme. ten properties divested during the year as part of the certeum
transaction were omitted from sponda’s energy efficiency programme. the properties covered by the programme continued to carry out energy
reviews, implement energy saving measures and monitor consumption in accordance with property-specific action plans.


a total of 68 energy reviews of properties owned by sponda were carried out in 2014. the most important energy saving measures implemented
in 2014 were measures concerning the use of ventilation and heating systems. additionally, energy efficiency improvement measures were
implemented concerning the cooling of properties, building automation systems and the use of electricity at properties.


the energy consumption and carbon footprint of sponda’s properties declined

the comparable energy consumption of the finnish properties owned by sponda decreased by 2.0 per cent in 2014. the measured heating
energy consumption of comparable properties was down by 1.2 per cent from the previous year. weather-adjusted (normalised) heating energy
consumption was 0.3 per cent lower than the year before. the total electricity consumption of comparable properties decreased by 3.9 per cent,
water consumption decreased by 0.5 per cent and district cooling consumption fell by 8.1 per cent compared to 2013.


in 2014, the carbon footprint caused by the total energy consumption of all of sponda’s comparable properties in finland was 2.3 per cent lower
than in the previous year.


sponda aims to reduce the energy consumption of its properties also in russia. in 2014, the electricity consumption of sponda’s office properties
in russia decreased by 6.1 per cent and water consumption decreased by 6.3 per cent.


sponda also aims to actively reduce its own environmental impact by reducing the energy consumption and other environmental loads of its head
office in helsinki. the year 2014 was an exceptional one at sponda’s head office, and consumption was not reduced in line with the targets.
renovation work was carried out in the building, there were relocation operations, as well as water damage. due to these circumstances,
consumption figures for 2014 were higher than in the previous year. in 2014, the electricity consumption of sponda’s head office increased by 3.7
per cent, (normalised) heating consumption increased by 1.1 per cent, measured heating energy consumption decreased by 1.7 per cent, and
district cooling consumption increased by 8.1 per cent. the water consumption of the head office decreased by 3.6 per cent compared to 2013.
because of the aforementioned reasons, the head office’s consumption figures for 2015 will be compared to the figures reported for 2013.


of the total energy consumed by sponda, 14 per cent is produced from renewable sources. renewable energy sources account for 17 per cent
of the electricity used by sponda, 7 per cent of heating, and 76 per cent of district cooling.


waste recovery rate rises to nearly 100 per cent

sponda achieved a significant improvement in waste recovery in 2014. the target for 2014 was to maintain the waste recovery rate at 87 per
cent at sponda’s finnish properties. the final waste recovery rate at the properties rose to approximately 96 per cent.


in 2014, the amount of office waste generated at sponda’s head office increased to 14.0 tonnes (2013: 12.1) due to relocation operations and
renovation work carried out in the building.


environmental co-operation with customers

sponda encourages its customers to conserve energy also in its environmental partnership programme, which aims to reduce the environmental
load caused by the use of buildings through joint efforts. interest among clients in sponda’s environmental partnerships continued to increase in
2014, and at the end of the year, the total number of environmental partnerships was 22, in line with the previously set target. the objective in
2015 is to further increase the number of partners, while also deepening co-operation with current partners.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                    58

                                                                                        annual report 2014 - operations and results

the extranet service for customers provides guidance on energy efficient operations and waste sorting, and includes news on the progress of the
energy efficiency programme. customers can use the service to monitor the energy consumption of their property on a monthly basis. sponda’s
property-specific extranet is in service at almost all sponda's properties.


in 2014, an environmental event was organised together with sponda's environmental partner deloitte at the ruoholahden sulka building, and
the company also organised its annual green day environmental event for its personnel to distribute information on environmental matters
related to sponda and the head office.


sights set on sponda’s first leed® platinum certificate

the active environmental certification of buildings continued in 2014. sponda has already obtained a total of eight international environmental
leed® or breeam® certificates. at the end of 2014, the company had a total of 5 active environmental certification processes underway for
new constructions and renovation projects.


sponda aims to achieve its first leed® platinum certificate for the estradi office property that will be completed in helsinki’s pohjois-haaga
district in 2015.



objectives for 2015

climate change

•     the comparable total energy consumption of properties (electricity, heating, district cooling) will decrease from the 2014 level. concerning
      electricity and cooling, the combined effect will be taken into account.
•     the comparable water consumption will decrease from the 2014 level.
•     the carbon dioxide (co2) emissions caused by the entire energy consumption will decrease from the level reported in the 2014 annual report.

•     the energy consumption of sponda’s headquarters will decrease from the 2013 level.1)
•     the consumption of electricity and water will decrease in three of sponda’s properties in russia.

1)
     the year of comparison is 2013 due to renovations and water damage dehumidification that took place in 2014



material efficiency

•     the waste recovery rate will remain at least at the level of 96 per cent achieved in 2014.
•     the waste recycling and reuse rate in sponda’s properties in finland will be 50 per cent by the end of 2015.
•     the waste recycling and reuse rate of sponda’s headquarters will, at minimum, remain at the level of 61 per cent achieved in 2014.


environmental co-operation with clients: property use and maintenance

•     during 2015, at least two new environmental partnerships will be established.
•     one green lease contract will be concluded in 2015.
•     active and regular follow-up and reporting on the action plans of sponda’s environmental partners during 2015. the objective is to reduce the
      environmental impact of partners.


environmental classification of buildings

•     sponda will apply for certification of all new building sites and large basic repair sites.
•     during 2015, environmental certification will be achieved for at least one new building site.
•     during 2015, environmental certification will be achieved for at least one basic repair site.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     59

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results




                    96
     the waste recovery rate of the finnish
     properties rose to 96 per cent in 2014.




energy consumption and energy sources
                                                                                                                                           number of
 electricity, heat, water and district cooling                                                                              change,
                                                                2014        2013        2012        2011        2010                       properties
 consumption of sponda's properties in finland                                                                          2013-2014,%
                                                                                                                                                2014

 total energy consumption, all properties, mwh               333,893     380,264     382,480     402,580     402,405            -12.2             153

 total energy consumption, all properties, gj              1,202,016   1,368,950   1,376,927    1,449,289   1,448,657

 total energy consumption, comparable properties, mwh        259,852     265,150                                                 -2.0             123

 total energy consumption, comparable properties, gj         935,467     954,540

       electricity, all properties, mwh                      150,728     189,710     198,358     204,622     210,319            -20.5             150

       electricity, comparable properties, mwh               107,105     111,410                                                 -3.9             126

       heat, normalised, all properties, mwh                 173,348     180,608     179,070     190,581     184,570             -4.0             148

       heat, normalised, comparable properties, mwh          147,020     147,510                                                 -0.3             126

       heat, measured, all properties, mwh                   156,124     164,415     172,408     166,189     166,189             -5.0             148

       heat, measured, comparable properties, mwh            132,636     134,227                                                 -1.2             126

       district cooling, all properties, mwh                   9,818       9,946        5,052       7,377      7,516             -1.3              18

       district cooling, comparable properties, mwh            5,727       6,230                                                 -8.1              14

                            3                                371,917     381,496     357,062     408,114     391,443             -2.5             141
 water, all properties, m

 water, comparable properties, m3                            322,589     324,285                                                 -0.5             116




 specific consumption of electricity, heat, water and district cooling of sponda’s properties in finland        2014     2013    2012    2011    2010

 total specific energy consumption, kwh/gfam2                                                                   203.1   226.3


       electricity, kwh/gfam2                                                                                    81.6   111.6    115.7   105.1   117.3


       heat, normalised, kwh/gfam2                                                                              109.2   107.1    108.0   118.9   117.8


       heat, measured, kwh/gfam2                                                                                 98.5    97.5    104.0   103.7   125.3


       district cooling, kwh/gfam2                                                                               28.8    27.8     24.0    29.5    34.5


 water, ltr/gfam2                                                                                               246.8   229.7    216.9   255.7   239.0




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                   60

                                                                                 annual report 2014 - operations and results



 energy and water
 consumption of
                                  office properties               shopping centres                      logistics properties                            russia
 sponda's properties
 by segment

                               2014      2013    change,%      2014       2013     change,%            2014      2013        change,%        2014       2013     change,%

 total energy             207,636      231,904        -10.5   46,710    49,125           -4.9     74,997       94,351            -20.5
 consumption by main
 segment, mwh

      electricity, mwh        90,437   117,150        -22.8   22,867    24,412           -6.3     36,769       47,496            -22.6      5,585       5,947         -6.1

      heat,               112,137      109,413         2.5    19,088    20,109           -5.1     38,228       46,855            -18.4
      normalised, mwh

      heat, measured,     100,741       99,294         1.5    17,492    18,451           -5.2     34,236       42,794            -20.0
      mwh

      district cooling,        5,062     5,341         -5.2    4,755     4,605           3.3
      mwh

 water, m3                235,279      238,644         -1.4   66,875    67,206           -0.5     63,527       72,323            -12.2     16,957      18,096         -6.3




 specific consumption of energy and water of sponda’s
                                                                           office properties                  shopping centres                     logistics properties
 properties by main segment

                                                                       2014      2013   change,%         2014        2013      change,%      2014       2013     change,%

 total specific energy consumption by main segment, kwh/gfam2           207    236.8        -12.7         267        299.7         -10.8     148.6      190.2        -21.9


      electricity, kwh/gfam2                                            82.7   116.3        -28.9        133.3       156.2         -14.7      47.5       94.9        -49.9


      heat, normalised, kwh/gfam2                                      112.6   112.4             0.2     104.4       113.0          -7.7      99.8       95.1             5.0


      heat, measured, kwh/gfam2                                        101.1   102.0            -0.8      95.6       103.6          -7.7      90.0       86.8             3.6


      district cooling, kwh/gfam2                                       26.4     22.0           20.2      41.2        39.8          3.3


 water, ltr/gfam2                                                      245.2   245.2             0.0     442.3       444.5          -0.5     131.5      144.5         -9.0




 total consumption of electricity, heat, water and district cooling of sponda’s head                                                                             change,
                                                                                                 2014         2013     2012      2011      2010
 office                                                                                                                                                      2013-2014,%

 total energy consumption, mwh                                                                  1,195      1,165       1,177    1,257      1,352                          2.5

      electricity, mwh                                                                            362          349      346       360       365                           3.7

      heat, normalised, mwh                                                                       715          707      730       765       838                           1.1

      heat, measured, mwh                                                                         657          668      719       710       922                       -1.7

      district cooling, mwh                                                                       118          109      101       132       148                           8.1

 water, m3                                                                                      1,613      1,674       1,578    2,087      2,484                      -3.6




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                          61

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results


 specific consumption of electricity, heat, water and district cooling of sponda’s head office          2014     2013    2012         2011    2010

 total specific energy consumption, kwh/gfam2                                                           202.7    197.7   199.7        213.3   229.3


        electricity, kwh/gfam2                                                                           61.4     59.2    58.7         61.1    61.9


        heat, normalised, kwh/gfam2                                                                     121.2    119.9   123.9        129.8   142.2


        heat, measured, kwh/gfam2                                                                       111.4    113.3   122.0        120.4   156.4


        district cooling, kwh/gfam2                                                                      20.0     18.5    17.1         22.4    25.2


 water, ltr/gfam2                                                                                       273.7    283.9   267.6        354.1   421.4




energy sources, share of renewable energy

 energy sources and emission factors                                                    2014     2013           2012        2011              2010

 electricity

        emission factor, kg co2/mwh                                                      217      217            209             83            128

        renewables,%                                                                       17      17             27             54             60

        non-renewables,%                                                                   35      35             27             12             18

        nuclear power,%                                                                    48      48             46             34             22

 heat

        emission factor, kg co2/mwh                                                      165      170            166         166               208

        renewables,%                                                                        7       6

        non-renewables,%                                                                   93      94

 district cooling

        emission factor, kg co2/mwh                                                        59      59             62             70             70

        renewables,%                                                                       76      76             75             66             58

        non-renewables,%                                                                   24      24             25             34             42




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                62

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   63

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   64

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   65

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   66

                                                                        annual report 2014 - operations and results




carbon footprint
 carbon footprint arising from the energy consumption of sponda's properties in                                                change, 2013-2014,
                                                                                   2014     2013     2012     2011     2010
 finland                                                                                                                                       %

 electricity, t co2                                                               32,426   41,167   41,457   16,984   26,921                -21.2

 heat, t co2                                                                      25,751   27,999   28,603   27,642   34,586                 -8.0

 district cooling, t co2                                                            579      587      326      513      505                  -1.3

 fuels, t co2                                                                                         486      669      761

 total, t co2                                                                     58,756   69,753   70,871   45,807   62,774                -15.8

 total, comparable properties, t co2                                              38,643   39,559                                            -2.3




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                              67

                                                                        annual report 2014 - operations and results


 specific carbon dioxide emissions arising from energy consumption of sponda’s                                                                                change,
                                                                                              2014     2013         2012     2011      2010
 properties in finland                                                                                                                                   2013-2014, %

 electricity, kg co2/gfam2                                                                    17.7         24.1     24.2       8.8     14.4                     -26.4


 heat, kg co2/gfam2                                                                           15.4         16.5     17.1      17.4     22.7                      -7.1


 district cooling, kg co2/gfam2                                                                1.7          1.6      1.5       2.3         2.4                    3.6


 total, kg co2/gfam2                                                                          34.4         41.3     42.8      25.9     36.8                     -16.7




                                                                                             total carbon dioxide                        specific carbon dioxide
 carbon footprint arising from energy consumption of sponda's properties by                                                                           emissions
                                                                                                       emissions
 segment
                                                                                              by segment (t co2)                    by segment (kg co2/gfam2)

                                                                                     2014          2013      change%            2014              2013      change%

 office properties                                                               35,339        41,242               -14.3           35.2          42.0          -16.2

 shopping centres                                                                    7,663         8,142              -5.9          43.5          46.4           -6.2

 logistics properties                                                            14,810        19,377               -23.6           25.0          39.0          -35.9

 russia (only electricity)                                                           2,329         2,480              -6.1




                                                                                                                                                   change, 2013-2014,
 carbon footprint arising from the energy consumption of sponda’s head office            2014        2013         2012       2011     2010
                                                                                                                                                                   %

 electricity, t co2                                                                      78.6         75.7         72.4      29.9      46.7                       3.7

 heat, t co2                                                                             70.8         72.0         76.9      69.6     104.2                      -1.6

 district cooling, t co2                                                                     7.0       6.4          6.2       9.3      10.4                       8.1

 total, t co2                                                                           156.4       154.2         155.5    108.7      161.3                       1.4




 specific carbon dioxide emissions arising from the energy consumption of sponda’s       2014        2013         2012       2011     2010         change, 2013-2014,
 head office                                                                                                                                                       %

 electricity, kg co2/gfam2                                                               13.3         12.8         12.3       5.1          7.9                    3.7


 heat, kg co2/gfam2                                                                      12.0         12.2         13.1      11.8      17.7                      -1.6


 district cooling, kg co2/gfam2                                                              1.2       1.1          1.1       1.6          1.8                    8.1


 total, kg co2/gfam2                                                                     26.5         26.2         26.4      18.4      27.4                       1.4




 sponda’s indirect carbon dioxide emissions                                           2014             2013                                      change, 2013-2014, %

 waste management, t co2                                                               253                 372                                                  -31.8

 leased cars, t co2                                                                    102                  99                                                    2.6

 business travel, (flights) t co2                                                       65                  55                                                   17.8

 total, t co2                                                                          420                 526                                                  -20.2




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                  68

                                                                                   annual report 2014 - operations and results




energy efficiency programme and environmental
partnership
 sponda’s energy efficiency programme                                                                 2014     2013    change,%

 number of properties included in the energy efficiency programme at the end of the year               113      109           4

 share of properties included in the programme of the total property portfolio,%                        88       76          15

 annual energy saving achieved by the energy efficiency programme, mwh                                 121      768

 annual energy saving achieved by the energy efficiency programme, gj                                  434     2,764

 number of energy reviews conducted                                                                     68       18         278




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents             69

                                                                                  annual report 2014 - operations and results


 sponda's environmental partnership                                                                     2014                  2013                change,%

 total energy consumption, mwh                                                                         80,048                81,475                    -2.0

        electricity, mwh                                                                               34,964                36,279                    -3.6

        heat, normalised, mwh                                                                          39,383                39,522                    -0.4

        district cooling, mwh                                                                           5,701                 5,674                    -7.7

 water, m3                                                                                            103,336               104,923                    -1.5

 co2 -emissions, t co2                                                                                 12,799                12,975                    -1.4

 number of environmental partners                                                                         22                    20                    10.0




waste management
 total waste volumes of sponda’s properties in finland                                                    2014      2013       2012     2011          2010

 mixed waste to landfill, t                                                                                286       955      1,059     2,371        2,097

 energy recovery, t                                                                                      3,394      2,845     2,343      752           698

 material recovery, t                                                                                    2,910      2,995     2,495     2,487        1,817

        biowaste, t                                                                                        932       991        748      493           308

        paper, t                                                                                           620       686        623      824           783

        paperboard, t                                                                                    1,011      1,014       826      892           558

        cardboard, t                                                                                       134       128        121      121            97

        glass, t                                                                                            78        81         88          61         16

        metal, t                                                                                            59        57         48          34         14

        plastic, t                                                                                              2      4          2           1          1

        hazardous waste, t                                                                                      6      8          7           7          0

        sludge, t                                                                                           53         0          0           0          0

        other waste, t                                                                                      15        26         31          56         40

 total, t                                                                                                6,591      6,796     5,898     5,610        4,611

 total carbon dioxide emissions co2 arising from waste, t co2                                              253       372



this includes sponda-owned properties where the property owner is responsible for waste management.



 waste recovery rates of sponda’s properties in finland                                                                               2014            2013

 mixed waste to landfill,%                                                                                                               4              14

 energy recovery,%                                                                                                                      52              42

 material recovery,%                                                                                                                    44              44

 overall waste recovery rate,%                                                                                                          96              86

 waste recovery rate, helsinki metropolitan area,%                                                                                      98              88

 waste recovery rate, rest of finland,%                                                                                                 79              62

 overall waste recycling rate,%                                                                                                         44              44

 recycling rate, helsinki metropolitan area,%                                                                                           44              43

 waste recycling rate, rest of finland,%                                                                                                40              42




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                        70

                                                                                      annual report 2014 - operations and results



 waste volumes of sponda’s properties in finland, comparable properties                                                                              2014                  2013

                                                                                                                                     %                    t         %          t

 total                                                                                                                                               6,152                 6,266

 mixed waste to landfill                                                                                                              4               266           16      984

 energy recovery                                                                                                                     51              3,157          41     2,596

 material recovery                                                                                                                   44              2,730          43     2,686




 total waste volumes of sponda’s properties in finland by main                                office             shopping             logistics                         property
 segment in 2014                                                                          properties               centres           properties                     development

 energy recovery, t                                                                            2,190                  743                        457                          5

 mixed waste to landfill, t                                                                      228                   23                            19                      16

 material recovery, t                                                                           1,611                 927                        364                          9



sponda’s energy waste has been processed into recycled fuel, which has mainly been supplied to power plants for the production of electricity and process steam, and the

combined production of electricity and district heating.




 total waste volumes of sponda’s head office                                                             2014           2013           2012                   2011         2010

 mixed waste to landfill, t                                                                                0.6               0.1           0.7                 6.0          12.7

 energy recovery, t                                                                                       31.1           30.9             32.8                10.4           4.4

 material recovery, t                                                                                     49.3           44.0             31.9                24.2          25.2

 total, t                                                                                                 81.1           74.9             65.4                40.6          42.3




 waste recovery rates of sponda’s head office                                                                                             2014                             2013

                                                                                                                              %                  t             %               t

 mixed waste to landfill,%                                                                                                     1            0.6                 0            0.1

 energy recovery,%                                                                                                            38           31.1                41           30.9

 material recovery,%                                                                                                          61           49.3                59           44.0




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                             71

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   72

                                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




property locations
in 2014, sponda continued to implement its strategy, which was revised in autumn 2013, by increasingly focusing its property portfolio on prime
areas with good public transport links in the helsinki metropolitan area and tampere. in line with its strategic objectives, sponda increased the
share of shopping centres and office properties in its property portfolio by selling half of its logistics property portfolio and a substantial proportion
of its properties in turku and by purchasing an office building located in the city center of tampere during the year. the company also divested its
real estate funds business.


sponda has a further goal of divesting its russian business within 2–4 years. at the end of 2014, 7 per cent of the company's properties
by the fair value were located in russia.


the most significant investment projects started in 2014 were the construction of the estradi office building in helsinki along the kehä i ring road
and hämeenlinnanväylä, and an office complex consisting of three buildings in helsinki’s ilmala district. estradi will be completed in summer
2015, while the office complex in ilmala will be completed at the beginning of 2016.


preparations for the ratina shopping centre project planned for the central business district of tampere continued, but the final decision to invest
was not yet made in 2014.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                       73

                                                                          annual report 2014 - operations and results

citycenter celebrated – keskuskatu became a pedestrian street

the citycenter retail block owned by sponda in helsinki’s central business district became even more accessible to pedestrians and cyclists
when all of keskuskatu, the street in front of citycenter, became a pedestrian zone in autumn 2014.


sponda has co-operated with the city of helsinki and other property owners to develop an underground maintenance tunnel that improves the
traffic safety of the pedestrian zone and the city centre. the removal of the vehicle ramps of citycenter, known locally as makkaratalo, on the
keskuskatu side, and moving the maintenance and parking traffic of the retail complex from the street level to an underground maintenance
tunnel made it possible for the section between aleksanterinkatu and kaivokatu to be turned into a pedestrian street.



long-term objectives

•   increasing the share of shopping centres and office properties in the company’s property portfolio
•   developing the property portfolio by concentrating on prime areas and locations with good public transport links




enhancing the customer experience
objectives for 2014

•   developing customer data management and, in particular, securing the success of the adoption of the crm solution
•   developing customer feedback collection and utilisation as part of customer data management
•   developing the electronic customer service environment
•   the evaluation and utilisation of new service innovations




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                  74

                                                                          annual report 2014 - operations and results

measures taken in 2014

the economic outlook in 2014 presented challenges to many industries, which also created pressures in customer relationships in leasing
business premises. good basic services at properties, a customer-focused approach and professional service are fundamental considerations
that customers value, even in challenging times.


sponda’s most significant measures to enhance the customer experience in 2014 were:


•   revising customer feedback collection and utilisation
•   adopting a crm system as part of customer relationship management
•   updating customer segments and the crm models applied to them
•   developing various online and mobile services for current and prospective clients



development work based on customer feedback

the collection and utilisation of customer feedback was developed in 2014 by conducting two separate customer feedback surveys: a service
experience study and a qualitative customer relationship study.


the service experience study, which was conducted electronically, was focused on property users’ experiences of leased premises’ services,
functionality of premises and maintenance. based on the results, sponda developed its customer relationship management operations and
service process. the survey was sent to over 700 clients and received nearly 300 responses. the customer feedback received via the service
experience study was analysed and used to prepare property-specific and client-specific action proposals for company's regional units. the
results were also reviewed with sponda’s key property service partners.


according to the 2014 service experience study, customer satisfaction in services has increased from the previous year. with regard to business
premises, sponda’s strengths are perceived as being the adaptability of premises, property locations in relation to business needs, and transport
links. indoor temperature and air quality were highlighted as areas needing improvement. based on the results of the study, sponda will also
focus on even more active and high-quality communications with customers.


sponda has measured customer satisfaction with their co-operation with the lessor since 2014. the index score in 2014 was good, at 3.67 on a
scale of 1–5.



new customer segments and crm models

sponda updated its customer segmentation in 2014 to better correspond with operational requirements. in conjunction with this, each customer
segment was assigned a customer relations management model (crm) that best serves its needs. sponda also carried out a customer
relationship study in 2014. the aim of the study was to support the development of customer relationship management plans, as well as improve
sponda’s understanding of customers’ changing expectations and perceived service experience.


in 2015, sponda will also continue a development project aimed at anticipating the future customer situation. the project, which began in 2014, is
aimed at creating new shared tools and operating practices for sponda’s customer relationship management and development. the continued
development of the crm system adopted in 2014 to better serve the needs of sponda’s customer relationship management plays a key role in
the project.


at the ruoholahden ankkuri office building, sponda conducted a customer experience and environmental responsibility survey to assess the
service capacity of the new property. the survey was conducted as part of a green building council finland competition to find finland’s most
comfortable and energy efficient business premises. based on the feedback received, sponda will develop the office building further and report
on implementation of the selected development targets to the users of the property. a similar survey to analyse the comfort of the indoor
environment will be conducted annually at selected properties.



objectives for 2015

•   quantitative and qualitative development of customer communications



this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                               75

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results

•   renewing the sponda's website and providing an even better online customer experience
•   overall satisfaction with co-operation with the lessor to remain at least at the same level as in 2014




investing in employees
objectives for 2014

•   develop internal operating models to increase the sharing of best practices and know-how.
•   continue the development of tools and systems to support employees’ work and the achievement of goals.
•   continue to develop the working environment in co-operation with personnel in such a way that it better supports the performance of work and
    the achievement of the company’s goals.



measures taken in 2014

•   in 2014, the sharing of best practices and know-how was promoted by organising several internal information and training events on topics
    such as legal and environmental issues.
•   the implementation of a new enterprise resource planning system was an important milestone in the development of tools and systems.
    learning the use of the system began by first training a group of administrative users, who then trained other users.
•   the working environment was developed particularly at the helsinki office, where a part of premises were renovated and workstations were
    rearranged to better support operations. the rearranging of workstations emphasised functionality and the smooth flow of information.



studies reveal a good level of employee satisfaction

in autumn 2014, sponda conducted its annual personnel survey to evaluate the views of employees regarding their work, their workplace,
managerial supervision and leadership. the employees perceive the survey as important, and the response rate increased to 95 per cent.


the results are discussed openly and employees participate in the planning of development measures which supports the high response rate of
the survey.


in interpreting the results, the finnish norm for specialists is used. sponda’s overall result continues to be better than the average in the
comparison material, even though some results have weakened compared to last year’s overall result. in assessing the level of commitment of
personnel, it can be noted that sponda employees are clearly more committed than employees in finnish specialist organisations generally.


any material weaknesses did not come up in the different themes.



workplace survey provides the basis for an action plan

in addition to the personnel survey, the helsinki office also carried out a workplace survey in co-operation with occupational health services. the
survey consisted of an online questionnaire, workplace inspections and employee interviews. the workplace survey covered 90 per cent of the
personnel, and its results will serve as the foundation for creating the framework for sponda's new occupational health service action plan.



new incentive scheme received positively

sponda implemented a new share-based incentive scheme in 2014. the incentive model attracted broad interest, with as many as 43 per cent of
employees indicating they wish to participate in the new incentive scheme.



objectives for 2015

•   operating models for the sharing of knowledge and best practices will be developed further.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                76

                                                                                      annual report 2014 - operations and results

•   the different features of the new enterprise resource planning system will be used more efficiently in everyday work.
•   management and evaluation of competences that support the implementation of the company strategy.




key figures for the
                                           2014                        2013                           2012                    2011                  2010
personnel

                               group parent  russia group parent  russia group parent  russia group parent  russia group parent  russia
                                     company              company              company              company              company

personnel                          105         95       10     118        109         9    119          107      12     127     114    13   119        107
at the year-end

number of personnel,               118        108       10     121         111      10     122          110      12     123     110         123        111
in average

average age,                     43.52      45.63    41.40 40.54        45.40    35.67 44.46           44.83     41 44.57      45.27                  45.5
at the year-end

days lost in                      3.85       4.00     2.40    4.36        4.43    3.18     3.75          3.9     1.9             3.9                       4
sickness in average

                                      -      1.60         -
days lost in sickness %


training days                     2.19       1.75       6.4   2.16        2.03    4.07     2.38          2.3    5.07            2.33                   2.9
in average

training hours                   16.45      13.13     48.0 16.19          15.2   30.54 17.85           17.25   38.03
per employee




collective bargaining agreements and employee turnover

percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements*                                                                                            100%

turnover, finland (parent company)                                                                                                                             11.05%



*the collective bargaining agreement covers all personnel in finland excluding the executive board.




job satisfaction and security, finland, parent company

accidents                                                                                                                                                          0

occupational diseases                                                                                                                                              0

fatalities                                                                                                                                                         0

lost working days*                                                                                                                                4 days per person

absence rate, % of working time                                                                                                                                1.60%

number of discrimination cases, their handling and related corrective action, amount of cases                                                                      0



*sick leave




personnel survey, group
                                                                                                                2014            2013        2012                 2011
(scale 1–4)

commitment                                                                                                       3.11           3.21         3.24                3.21

leadership                                                                                                       3.07           3.19         3.21                3.20

performance                                                                                                      2.98           3.05         3.06                3.08

engagement index                                                                                                 3.34           3.42         3.45                3.48




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                 77

                                                                                   annual report 2014 - operations and results

employees hired in 2014, finland, parent company

age group                                                                             men                                       women                            total

25−29                                                                                    2                                              0                             2

30−34                                                                                    0                                              1                             1

35−39                                                                                    2                                              3                             5

40−44                                                                                    0                                              0                             0

45−49                                                                                    0                                              2                             2

50−54                                                                                    0                                              1                             1

total                                                                                    4                                              7                            11




employees that left the company in 2014, finland, parent company

age group                                                                             men                                       women                            total

under 20                                                                                 0                                              0                             0

20−24                                                                                    0                                              3                             3

25−29                                                                                    1                                              0                             1

30−34                                                                                    0                                              0                             0

35−39                                                                                    0                                              1                             1

40−44                                                                                    1                                              0                             1

45−49                                                                                    1                                              1                             2

50−54                                                                                    1                                              0                             1

55−59                                                                                    1                                              0                             1

over 60                                                                                  0                                              1                             1

total                                                                                    5                                              6                            11




comparison of salaries and rewarding of men and women

comparison group i, experts

the salary of women is % of the corresponding salary of men                                                                          basic salary           rewarding

                                                                                                                                        102.50%               125.10%


comparison group ii, middle management

salary of women, % of the corresponding salary of men                                                                              basic salary             rewarding

                                                                                                                                        89.27%                 85.59%



the comparison includes task-specific groups with three women and three men at minimum. the comparison figure has been calculated on the principle of how many per

cent the average salary for women is of the corresponding salary for men.

the salary comparison concerns finland (parent company)




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                     78

                                                             annual report 2014 - operations and results




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   79

                                                                        annual report 2014 - operations and results




transparent and ethical operations
objectives for 2014

•   increasing customer dialogue in all customer service channels



measures taken in 2014

in 2014, sponda drafted a code of conduct that lays the foundation for the company’s responsibility efforts, the management of responsibility,
and stakeholder relations. the code of conduct was approved by the executive board and the board of directors. sponda will continue to
implement the code of conduct among company personnel and stakeholders in 2015.


additionally, in 2014, sponda signed the un global compact to mark its commitment to ten principles related to human rights, labour, the
environment, and anti-corruption. sponda’s commitment to the un global compact supports sponda’s vision of being an industry leader in
responsibility.


sponda’s code of conduct and the un global compact contain a commitment to anti-corruption by the company. sponda’s code of conduct
and the un global compact are available for interest groups at the company’s website.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                 80

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results

the best property investment company in the nordic region according to the cdp assessment

sponda actively promotes the transparency of its responsibility reporting and, each year, participates in international responsibility reports and
studies to develop its operations further.


in 2014, sponda was ranked as the best property investment company in the nordic region by the carbon disclosure project (cdp), which
measures companies’ greenhouse gas emissions, emissions targets, measures to reduce emissions, business risks and opportunities related to
climate change, and reporting on these matters. sponda’s overall score improved from the previous year, and the company ranked well above
average in finland and in the nordic region as a whole.


also in 2014, sponda was awarded a green star for the second time in the global real estate sustainability benchmark (gresb) study.
sponda’s overall result in the 2014 survey improved from the previous year, placing the company again among the top quartile of property
companies. in the 2014 survey, sponda received particular recognition with respect to the management of corporate responsibility as well as the
management of risks and opportunities, areas in which the company achieved some of the highest scores in the industry. the green star is
awarded to companies in the property industry that measure, implement, manage and develop responsibility successfully as an integral part of
their business operations.



continuing improvement in property management services

in sponda’s purchasing and quality process, the development of property management and maintenance services continued in 2014. a
competitive tendering was carried out in the purchasing process, which led to sponda’s expert services in property management being divided
between two different responsible operators. the goal of the new property service agreements was to create a long-term, flexible and
development-oriented partnership between the parties involved to ensure that expert services related to property management are implemented
with high quality and cost-efficiency.


sponda's properties and property services are managed by a partner network comprising tens of suppliers. particular focus has been placed on
the reliability of property service providers and partners, and their responsibility for consistent quality in service provision. this has been reflected
in improved customer feedback regarding property services.


in addition to customer feedback and continuous reporting data, the quality of property services is also monitored by means of twice-yearly
property audits and the self-evaluation of service production. the audits and their reporting models have been systematically developed, which
helped the company achieve an improvement in the quality of property maintenance services in 2014.


during the year, sponda aimed to increase customer dialogue in customer meetings and all customer service channels. read more about
enhancing the customer experience.



transparency in operations

sponda also promotes responsible ways of working in the property sector in co-operation with its subcontractors. we require transparent
operations and up-to-date communications from our subcontractors. to prevent the grey economy, sponda has set strict contractual conditions
for its subcontractors and requires that they are officially registered pursuant to the finnish act on the contractor’s obligations and liability when
work is contracted out.


new finnish legislation pertaining to monthly reporting on construction contracts and workers entered into force in july 2014. the new legislation
requires clients that contract construction work to report more detailed information on contracts to the tax administration. for this purpose,
sponda acquired an information system that was implemented when the requirement to report information on contracts entered into force.



objectives for 2015

•   implementing the code of conduct and the un global compact with personnel and interest groups.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                      81

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results


taxation
taxes and tax-like payments resulting from sponda’s operations

in 2014, sponda reported for the second time on the economic effect on society created by its operations through taxes and tax-like payments.
transparent reporting of the taxes and tax-like payments resulting from its operations is one element of sponda’s responsibility.


each year, sponda’s business operations result in the accrual and payment of taxes to the tax authorities in the form of many different taxes and
tax-like payments. sponda’s taxes resulting from business operations in finland include income tax collected on the company’s taxable income,
property taxes collected on the basis of property ownership, and excise taxes collected as part of electricity prices. in addition, a proportion of the
value added taxes paid for goods and services remains as a balance payable by the company. as an employer, sponda pays contributions
related to pension and social security as well as deducts withholding taxes from wages and salaries and pays them to the tax authorities.


in 2014, the taxes arising from sponda’s business operations amounted to eur 41.4 million. in addition, sponda paid withholding taxes
deducted from wages and salaries at a total amount of eur 4.1 million. difference between remitted and deducted value added tax was
eur 20.8 million. the chart below illustrates the most significant taxes arising from sponda’s operations and the withheld taxes. sponda has not
received substantial financial support for its operations from the public sector.


sponda group’s result calculated in accordance with ifrs deviates from the group subsidiaries' total combined taxable result. the ifrs does
not permit annual depreciation of investment properties, instead requiring that properties are recorded at their current fair value. the annual
changes in fair value are then recorded in the company’s result.


in taxation, the company applies normal depreciation on the purchase price of properties pursuant to tax law. these factors constitute a
significant difference between the result recorded in the consolidated financial statements according to ifrs and the taxable result. the effects of
the differences between the requirements of tax law and ifrs are taken into account in sponda’s deferred taxes.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                   82

                                                                          annual report 2014 - operations and results




taking the industry forward
objectives and measures in 2014

sponda was an active participant in the operations of the finnish association of building owners and construction clients (rakli) in 2014. the
common challenge faced by rakli members is finding solutions for promoting zoning activities and utilising vacant plots of land. the
association’s activities during the year included drafting a joint working paper on this issue and launching a complementary construction clinic
aimed at utilising unused premises.


sponda was actively involved in the operations of green building council finland (gbc finland) in 2014 through participation in various working
groups. sponda also participated in gbc finland’s competition to find finland’s most attractive and energy-efficient business premises. the
ruoholahden ankkuri office building was the runner-up in the competition with an excellent score for energy efficiency.


sponda’s own development activities in 2014 were primarily focused on the diverse development of the customer experience through measures
such as revising the quality standards for property services.



energy-efficient co-operation

sponda is a signatory in the voluntary business premises energy efficiency action plan (tets), which is part of the real estate sector’s energy
efficiency agreement. the agreement is coordinated by the finnish ministry of employment and the economy, the ministry of the environment
and the finnish association of building owners and construction clients (rakli). the objective of the energy efficiency agreement is to
decrease energy consumption in the properties included in the agreement by nine per cent by 2016. sponda reports annually on its actions and
results related to the achievement of this energy saving target.



this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                   83

                                                                              annual report 2014 - operations and results

in spring 2014, sponda participated for the sixth time in the global earth hour environmental awareness initiative organised by wwf, involving
organisations and private individuals around the world switching off their lights for one hour. turning off the lights symbolises a common concern
for climate change. sponda switched off the lights at all of its shopping centres in finland, as well as the fennia block, arkadiankatu 4–6 and
kaivokatu 12 properties.



long-term objective

sponda promotes best practices in the property sector by being an active participant in the activities and projects of organisations such as the
finnish association of building owners and construction clients rakli and epra, the umbrella organisation for listed european property
investment companies.




gri index
the scope of the gri g4 guidelines that sponda uses in this report is core.


the report presents the general standard disclosures according to the gri g4 guidelines as well as specific standard disclosures, namely
disclosures concerning the management approach and environmental responsibility indicators.


the specific standard disclosures are reported in accordance with the gri g4 core requirements for aspects that are identified as material.


gri content index
           gri standard                           location in the             external pursuant to epra
code       disclosures (g4)              included annual report               assurance recommendation* comments

general standard disclosures
           strategy and analysis

g4-1       statement from the president yes       chief executive’s
           and ceo                                review

g4-2       key impacts, risks and        yes      strategy, strategic
           opportunities                          operations in 2014, risk
                                                  management,
                                                  responsibility priorities

           organisational profile

g4-3       name of reporting             yes      sponda
           organisation

g4-4       primary brands, products      yes      sponda, business units
           and services                           in brief

g4-5       location of the organisation’s yes     contact details
           headquarters

g4-6       number of countries where      yes     business units in brief,
           the organisation operates,             supply chain
           and names of countries
           where either the organisation
           has significant operations or
           that are specifically relevant
           to the sustainability topics
           covered in the report

g4-7       the nature of ownership and yes        corporate governance,
           legal form                             shares and
                                                  shareholders

g4-8       markets served                yes      business units in brief

g4-9       scale of the organisation     yes      investing in employees,
                                                  key figures




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                   84

                                                                               annual report 2014 - operations and results

g4-10    total workforce by                 yes   investing in employees
         employment type and
         employment contract, by
         region and gender

g4-11    percentage of total                yes   investing in employees
         employees covered by
         collective bargaining
         agreements

g4-12    the organisation’s supply          yes   sponda’s supply chain
         chain

g4-13    significant changes during     yes       report by the board of
         the reporting period                     directors, strategy
         regarding the organisation’s
         size, structure, ownership, or
         its supply chain

g4-14    implementation of the              yes   risk management,
         prudence principle                       report by the board of
                                                  directors

g4-15    externally developed               yes   energy and
         charters, principles or other            environmental
         initiatives to which the                 efficiency, managing
         organisation subscribes or               responsibility, taking
         which it endorses                        the industry forward,
                                                  transparent and ethical
                                                  operations

g4-16    memberships in associations yes          taking the industry
         and advocacy organizations               forward

         identified material aspects
         and boundaries

g4-17    list of all entities included in   yes   scope of the reporting,
         the organisation’s                       financial statements
         consolidated financial
         statements

g4-18    the process of defining the        yes   scope of the reporting,
         report content and the                   materiality analysis
         aspect boundaries

g4-19    material aspects                   yes   responsibility priorities,
                                                  materiality analysis,
                                                  scope of the reporting

g4-20    for each material aspect,    yes         scope of the reporting,
         the aspect boundaries within             aspect boundaries table
         the organisation

g4-21    for each material aspect,          yes   scope of the reporting,
         the aspect boundaries                    aspect boundaries table
         outside of the organisation

g4-22    effect of any restatements of yes        scope of the reporting
         information provided in
         previous reports

g4-23    significant changes from           yes   scope of the reporting
         previous reporting periods in
         the scope and aspect
         boundaries

         stakeholder engagement

g4-24    list of stakeholder groups  yes          sponda’s stakeholders
         engaged by the organisation

g4-25    basis for identification and       yes   sponda's stakeholders
         selection of stakeholders
         with whom to engage

g4-26    the organisation’s approach        yes   sponda’s stakeholders
         to stakeholder engagement

g4-27    key topics and concerns that yes         sponda’s stakeholders,
         have been raised through                 materiality analysis,
         stakeholder engagement                   enhancing the customer
                                                  experience




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents    85

                                                                        annual report 2014 - operations and results

         report profile

g4-28    reporting period               yes   scope of the reporting

g4-29    date of most recent previous yes     scope of the reporting
         report

g4-30    reporting cycle                yes   scope of the reporting

g4-31    contact point for questions    yes   contact details
         regarding the report or its
         contents

g4-32    gri content index              yes   gri index

g4-33    the organisation’s policy and yes    scope of the reporting,                       certain energy and emissions data in
         current practice with regard         gri index, assurance                          finnish has been assured by an
         to seeking external                  report                                        independent third party.
         assurance for the report

         governance

         governance structure and
         composition

g4-34    governance structure of the    yes   board of directors,
         organisation, including              executive board
         committees of the highest
         governance body

g4-38    composition of the highest     yes   board of directors
         governance body and its
         committees

g4-39    position of the chair of the   yes   board of directors
         highest governance body

g4-41    processes for the highest      yes   board of directors
         governance body to ensure
         conflicts of interest are
         avoided and managed

         highest governance body’s
         role in setting purpose,
         values and strategy

g4-42    highest governance body’s      yes   duties of the board of
         role in the setting the              directors
         organisation’s purpose,
         values and strategy

         highest governance body’s
         role in risk management

g4-45    the highest governance         yes   risks and risk
         body’s role in the                   management
         identification and
         management of risks

g4-46    the highest governance         yes   risks and risk
         body’s role in reviewing the         management
         effectiveness of the
         organisation’s risk
         management processes

g4-47    frequency of the highest    yes      risks and risk
         governance body’s review of          management
         risks

         highest governance body’s
         role in sustainability
         reporting

g4-48    the highest committee or       yes   gri index                                     senior management
         position that formally reviews
         and approves the
         organisation’s sustainability
         report

         remuneration and
         incentives




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents               86

                                                                                     annual report 2014 - operations and results

g4-51       remuneration policies for the yes           remuneration and other
            highest governance body                     financial benefits paid to
            and senior executives                       the board of directors

            ethics and integrity

g4-56       the organisation’s values,      yes         strategy; managing
            principles, standards and                   responsibility,
            norms of behaviour                          transparent and ethical
                                                        operations

specific standard disclosures
specific standard disclosures are reported for identified material aspects

code

            management approach

            disclosures on                  yes         managing responsibility,
            management approach                         responsibility priorities
            (dma)

            economic responsibility

            economic performance

g4-ec1      direct economic value           yes         transparent and ethical
            generated and distributed                   operations, taxation,
                                                        cash flows between
                                                        stakeholders

g4-ec2      financial implications and      yes         spondability, energy                            the implications of climate change are
            other risks and opportunities               and environmental                               assessed as part of sponda’s regular
            for the organisation’s                      efficiency, risk                                risk assessment
            activities due to climate                   management
            change

            indirect economic impacts

g4-ec7      development and impact of       yes         property locations                              sponda has no assessment
            infrastructure investments                                                                  programmes related to the needs of
            and services supported                                                                      local communities.

g4-ec8      significant indirect economic partially     sponda’s                                        the extent of impacts has not been
            impacts, including the extent               stakeholders, taxation,                         specified.
            of impacts                                  taking the industry
                                                        forward, transparency
                                                        in operations

            environmental
            responsibility

            energy

g4-en3      energy consumption within       yes         energy and               yes,         yes       sponda did not have any energy
            the organisation                            environmental            assurance              production or fuel consumption of its
                                                        efficiency, energy and   report                 own during the reporting period.
                                                        environmental efficiency
                                                        results, key figures,
                                                        scope of reporting;
                                                        calculation principles
                                                        for environmental
                                                        reporting

g4-en5      energy intensity                yes         energy and                yes,        yes       energy intensity refers to the energy
                                                        environmental             assurance             consumption of sponda-owned
                                                        efficiency; energy        report                properties in proportion to gross floor
                                                        consumption and                                 area.
                                                        energy sources, scope
                                                        of reporting; calculation
                                                        principles for
                                                        environmental reporting

cre 1       building energy intensity       yes         energy and                            yes       g4 construction and real estate
                                                        environmental                                   sector disclosures
                                                        efficiency; energy
                                                        consumption and
                                                        energy sources

g4-en6      reduction of energy             yes         property development in yes,                    includes the reduction in energy
            consumption                                 2014, energy and        assurance               consumption achieved through
                                                        environmental           report                  sponda's energy efficiency programme
                                                        efficiency; energy                              the monetary savings achieved




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                87

                                                                       annual report 2014 - operations and results

                                              consumption and                               through energy conservation measures
                                              energy sources; energy                        are not reported. the aim is to have
                                              efficiency programme                          the monetary savings included within
                                              and environmental                             the scope of reporting by 2016.
                                              partners

g4-en7    reductions in energy         yes    energy and               yes,                 includes the reduction in energy
          requirements of products and        environmental            assurance            consumption achieved through
          services                            efficiency, energy       report               sponda's environmental partnership
                                              efficiency programme                          programme compared to the previous
                                              and environmental                             year. covers sponda’s environmental
                                              partners                                      partners in 2014.

          water

g4-en8    total water withdrawal by     yes   energy and                           yes
          source                              environmental
                                              efficiency; energy
                                              consumption and
                                              energy sources, key
                                              figures

cre 2     water intensity               yes   energy and                           yes      g4 construction and real estate
                                              environmental                                 sector disclosures
                                              efficiency; energy
                                              consumption and
                                              energy sources

          emissions

g4-en15   direct greenhouse gas         yes   energy and              yes,         yes      sponda did not have any direct
          (ghg) emissions (scope 1)           environmental           assurance             greenhouse gas emissions during the
                                              efficiency; energy      report                reporting period.
                                              consumption and
                                              energy sources; carbon
                                              footprint, scope of
                                              reporting; calculation
                                              principles for
                                              environmental reporting

g4-en16   energy indirect greenhouse yes      energy and              yes,         yes      based on the emission factors reported
          gas (ghg) emissions (scope          environmental           assurance             by energy companies. for emissions in
          2)                                  efficiency; energy      report                russia, the iea three-year country-
                                              consumption and                               specific average was used.
                                              energy sources; carbon
                                              footprint, key figures,
                                              scope of reporting;
                                              calculation principles
                                              for environmental
                                              reporting

g4-en17   other indirect greenhouse  yes      energy and              yes,                  covers carbon dioxide emissions
          gas (ghg) emissions (scope          environmental           assurance             during the reporting period.
          3)                                  efficiency; energy      report
                                              consumption and
                                              energy sources; carbon
                                              footprint, scope of
                                              reporting; calculation
                                              principles for
                                              environmental reporting

g4-en18   greenhouse gas (ghg)          yes   energy and              yes,         yes      greenhouse gas emissions intensity
          emissions intensity                 environmental           assurance             refers to the greenhouse gas
                                              efficiency; energy      report                emissions caused by the energy
                                              consumption and                               consumption (scope 2) of sponda-
                                              energy sources; carbon                        owned properties in proportion to gross
                                              footprint, scope of                           floor area.
                                              reporting; calculation
                                              principles for
                                              environmental reporting

cre3      greenhouse gas intensity of   yes   energy and                           yes      g4 construction and real estate
          building’s energy                   environmental                                 sector disclosures
          consumption                         efficiency; energy
                                              consumption and
                                              energy sources; carbon
                                              footprint

g4-en19   reduction of greenhouse       yes   energy and             yes,                   includes the reduction in carbon
          gas (ghg) emissions                 environmental          assurance              dioxide emissions achieved through
                                              efficiency; energy     report                 sponda's environmental partnership
                                              consumption and                               programme (scope 2). covers
                                              energy sources; carbon                        sponda’s environmental partners in
                                              footprint; energy                             2014.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                 88

                                                                              annual report 2014 - operations and results

                                                    efficiency programme
                                                    and environmental
                                                    partners

          effluents and waste

g4-en23   total weight of waste by type yes         energy and                       yes
          and disposal method                       environmental
                                                    efficiency; waste
                                                    management, key
                                                    figures

          products and services

g4-en27   extent of impact mitigation of yes        energy and
          environmental impacts of                  environmental
          products and services                     efficiency, energy
                                                    efficiency programme
                                                    and environmental
                                                    partners

          supplier environmental
          assessment

g4-en32   percentage of new suppliers   partially   sponda’s supply chain,                       the significance of environmental
          that were screened using                  responsible                                  responsibility and environmental
          environmental criteria                    management of the                            responsibility in sponda’s procurement
                                                    supply chain                                 practices are described.

          social responsibility

          labour practices and
          decent work

          employment

g4-la1    total number and rates of     yes         investing in employees
          new employee hires and
          employee turnover by age
          group, gender and region

          occupational health and
          safety

g4-la6    type of injury and rates of    yes        investing in employees                       no accidents during the reporting
          injury, occupational diseases,                                                         period.
          lost days and absenteeism,
          and total number of work-
          related fatalities, by region
          and by gender

          training and education

g4-la9    average hours of training per yes         investing in employees
          year per employee by
          gender, and by employee
          category

g4-la10   programmes for skills         yes         investing in employees                       if an employment relationship is
          management and lifelong                                                                terminated on the employer’s initiative
          learning that support the                                                              for a reason deriving from the
          continued employability of                                                             employer, the employee is offered the
          employees and assist them                                                              opportunity to participate
          in managing career endings                                                             in employment search training and
                                                                                                 career counselling.

g4-la11   percentage of employees       yes         investing in employees                       all of sponda’s personnel are covered
          receiving regular                                                                      by performance reviews.
          performance and career
          development reviews

          diversity and equal
          opportunity

g4-la12   composition of governance yes             board of directors,
          bodies and breakdown of                   executive board,
          employees per employee                    management and
          category according to                     personnel, investing in
          gender, age group, minority               employees
          group membership and other
          indicators of diversity




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                      89

                                                                                   annual report 2014 - operations and results

            equal remuneration for
            women and men

g4-la13     ratio of basic salary and      yes          investing in employees
            remuneration of women to
            men by employee category,
            by significant locations of
            operation

            supplier assessment for
            labour practices

g4-la14     percentage of new suppliers    partially    sponda’s supply chain,                          occupational safety practices in
            that were screened using                    responsible                                     sponda’s procurement procedure are
            labour practices criteria                   management of the                               described.
                                                        supply chain

            human rights

            non-discrimination

g4-hr3      total number of incidents of yes            investing in employees                          no incidents of discrimination in the
            discrimination and corrective                                                               reporting period.
            actions taken

            society

            anti-corruption

g4-so4      communication and training     yes          transparent and ethical
            on anti-corruption policies                 operations, code of
            and procedures                              conduct

            supplier assessment for
            impacts on society

g4-so9      percentage of new suppliers partially       sponda’s supply chain,                          sponda’s procurement procedures and
            that were screened using                    responsible                                     practices concerning the prevention of
            criteria for impacts on society             management of the                               the grey economy and financial crime
                                                        supply chain                                    are described.

            product responsibility

            customer health and safety

g4-pr1      percentage of significant      yes          enhancing the customer
            product and service                         experience
            categories for which health
            and safety impacts are
            assessed for improvement

            product and service
            labelling

g4-pr5      results of surveys             yes          enhancing the customer
            measuring customer                          experience, key figures
            satisfaction

cre 8       certificates                   yes          responsibility targets            yes           g4 construction and real estate
                                                        and results, energy and                         sector disclosures
                                                        environmental efficiency



* = based on epra best practice recommendations on sustainable reporting




the scope and principles of the report
description of the report

the annual report contains general information about sponda’s financial, social and environmental operations between 1 january and 31
december 2014, unless otherwise indicated.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                90

                                                                           annual report 2014 - operations and results

scope of reporting

sponda reports on its corporate responsibility according to the guidelines of the global reporting initiative (gri) g4 core reporting guidelines.
additionally, the gri g4's construction and real estate sector disclosures reporting guideline has been applied in reporting. in particular the
cre indicators related to the real estate sector are reported on where applicable.


in addition to the gri g4 reporting guidelines, certain portions of the report also comply with the european public real estate association’s
epra recommendations (epra best practices recommendations on sustainability reporting, 2014) separately indicated in the gri index.
sponda’s consolidated financial statements are compiled according to the ifrs (international financial reporting standards).



assurance

selected information in finnish about energy and emissions has been assured by an independent third party, pricewaterhousecoopers oy, and
congruence between the finnish and english versions has been checked. the assured information is identified in the gri content index. see
the independent assurance report.



structure of the report

sponda’s corporate responsibility reporting for 2014 follows the gri g4 reporting guidelines. additionally, the principles and perspective of
integrated reporting (ir) have been applied in reporting. information pertaining to corporate responsibility operations is provided in the following
sections:


•   the strategy section discusses the strategic significance of responsibility for sponda.
•   sponda’s approach to corporate responsibility and the company’s responsibility priorities are described in the section sponda’s responsibility
    priorities.
•   the responsibility results section describes the results and measures taken by sponda in 2014 in the area of corporate responsibility.
•   a chart showing the correspondence between the gri g4 aspects defined as material, gri guidelines, and sponda’s reporting can be found
    in the gri index.
•   reporting boundaries corresponding to material aspects of corporate responsibility are presented in a separate table.



scope of the report and data collection

the figures that appear in the report are based on the figures of sponda’s operations in finland, unless otherwise indicated. figures for the
company’s subsidiaries are mentioned separately. unless otherwise indicated, there have been no changes in the scope or method of calculation
of the reporting principles.


there is a certain degree of annual variability in sponda’s property holdings due to sales and purchases, which affects the comparability of the
annual environmental figures.



calculation principles for environmental reporting

the calculation of environmental indicators takes into account sponda’s properties located in finland. the figures cover all sponda-owned
properties for which the responsibility for maintenance lies with the property owner. the figures also include 43 per cent of the properties that
sponda owns partially, or for which the responsibility for maintenance lies with the tenant (properties leased cold). russian operations are
reported separately for the indicators that include them. for russia, electricity and water consumption data is reported for three office properties.
there is a certain degree of annual variability in sponda’s property holdings due to sales and purchases, which affects the comparability of the
annual environment figures. for this reason, the comparable consumption has been reported separately.


the energy consumption of sponda’s properties consists of purchased energy. the company has no energy production of its own. carbon
dioxide emissions caused by purchased energy also constitute the majority of the total greenhouse gas emissions reported.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                    91

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results

energy consumption monitoring extends to all properties for which sponda is responsible for energy purchasing. a total of 138 sponda's totally or
partially owned properties were subject to energy consumption monitoring in 2014, representing 82 per cent of sponda’s property portfolio. of
these, 121 properties are subject to hourly monitoring, while consumption at 15 properties is monitored by means of manual meter reading.
cooling is monitored separately for those properties that use district cooling. if cooling is performed by compressors, it is included in the
electricity consumption. the unit used in monitoring the consumption of purchased energy is the mwh. total energy consumption is also reported
in gj using the conversion rate 1 mwh = 3.6 gj (source: iea, international energy agency). in specific consumption information, data on gross
floor area (gfam2) corresponds to consumption data. properties that were sold or bought, or were covered by consumption monitoring only for
part of the year, are not included in the calculations on specific consumption. energy consumption is divided by the number of sponda’s
properties excluding sold properties and properties included under property development. the figures presented by segments do not include
properties under property development.


information on waste covers all properties for which the responsibility to arrange waste management lies with a sponda-owned property or
mutual real estate company. at the end of 2014, waste monitoring covered 85 per cent of the properties owned by sponda in finland. waste
covered in tenants’ own waste management agreements are not included in the reporting. the reported information on waste is based on waste
volumes reported by waste management service providers.


co2 emissions and the use of renewable energy sources have been estimated using publicly available information provided by energy
companies on the specific emissions of energy production and the energy source distribution of energy production. the calculation of co2
emissions for 2014 is based on emission factors reported by energy companies in 2013. for heating, carbon dioxide emissions are calculated
based on measured heating consumption. for district heating, municipality-specific emission factors have been used. data for other reported
years has been calculated using the actual emission factor for each year. at present, sponda does not report on greenhouse gas emissions other
than carbon dioxide, or their global warming potential.


with respect to indirect greenhouse gas emissions, sponda reports on carbon dioxide emissions from waste management, business air travel
and leased cars. the waste management emission calculations are based on the ghg protocol and they cover 98 per cent of the waste
management sponda is responsible for, including both waste transportation and treatment. emissions from business air travel are based
on flight miles and the emission factors reported by airlines. the emissions from leased cars are based on sponda’s emissions data on leased
cars and kilometres driven per year. indirect greenhouse gas emissions are reported at the company level.



earlier reports

the previous corporate responsibility report was published as a part of sponda’s annual report in february 2014. sponda reports on its progress
in terms of responsibility each year.


in the 2014 report, sponda has expanded its reporting from the previous year in accordance with the responsibility priorities updated on the basis
of the materiality analysis conducted by the company. reporting on environmental responsibility has also been expanded from the previous year
with regard to energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions reporting.



sponda’s material aspects and gri g4 boundary table


                                          material aspect of sponda’s corporate responsibility aspect boundary
gri g4 aspect
                                          (materiality assessment 2014)                        (g4 - 20-21)

economic responsibility

economic performance                      economic value generated for stakeholders                                    sponda

indirect economic impacts                 property locations                                                           sponda and society

environmental responsibility

energy                                    energy efficiency of properties                                              sponda and customers

water                                     water consumption at properties                                              sponda and customers




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                92

                                                                              annual report 2014 - operations and results

emissions                                  greenhouse gas emissions and renewable energy                                  sponda and customers

effluents and waste                        sorting and recovery of property waste                                         sponda and customers

products and services                      energy and environmental efficiency, property locations                        sponda, customers and partners

supplier environmental assessment          purchasing management and responsible purchasing                               partners and subcontractors

social responsibility

labour practices and decent work

employment                                 wellbeing of employees                                                         sponda

occupational health and safety             safety of personnel                                                            sponda

training and education                     improving professional expertise                                               sponda

diversity and equal opportunity            equal and non-discriminatory treatment of employees                            sponda

equal remuneration for women and men       equal and non-discriminatory treatment of employees                            sponda

supplier assessment for labour practices   purchasing management and responsible purchasing                               partners and subcontractors

human rights

non-discrimination                         equal and non-discriminatory treatment of employees                            sponda

society

anti-corruption                            business principles                                                            sponda

supplier assessment for impacts on society purchasing management and responsible purchasing                               partners and subcontractors

product responsibility

customer health and safety                 enhancing the customer experience                                              sponda and customers

product and service labelling              enhancing the customer experience, environmental certification of properties   sponda and customers




independent assurance report
(translation from the finnish original)


to the management of sponda plc


we have been engaged by the management of sponda plc (hereinafter also the company) to perform a limited assurance engagement on
selected information on energy and emissions for the reporting period 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2014, disclosed in sponda plc’s annual
report 2014 on the company’s website (hereinafter corporate responsibility reporting). the assured information is indicated in the company’s
gri index 2014.



management’s responsibility

the management of sponda plc is responsible for preparing the corporate responsibility reporting in accordance with the reporting criteria as
set out in sponda plc’s reporting instructions, the g4 sustainability reporting guidelines and the g4 construction and real estate sector
disclosures of the global reporting initiative and the epra best practices recommendations on sustainability reporting (september 2014) of
the european public real estate association.



practitioner’s responsibility

our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the corporate responsibility reporting based on our work performed. our assurance report has
been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. we do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to sponda
plc for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                        93

                                                                           annual report 2014 - operations and results

we have not been engaged to provide assurance on the information in the corporate responsibility reporting relating to prior reporting periods.


we conducted our work in accordance with the international standard on assurance engagements (isae) 3000 “assurance engagements other
than audits or reviews of historical financial information”. this standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and
perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that the
corporate responsibility reporting has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.


in a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and
therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. an assurance engagement involves performing procedures to
obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the corporate responsibility reporting.the procedures selected depend on the
practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the corporate responsibility reporting. our work
consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures:


•   interviewing a representative of senior management of the company.
•   visiting the company’s head office as well as one site in finland.
•   interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the information presented in the corporate responsibility reporting at the
    group level and at the site where our visit took place.
•   assessing how group employees apply the reporting instructions and procedures of the company.
•   testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents and systems on a sample basis.
•   testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis.



conclusion

based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that sponda plc’s corporate
responsibility reporting has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. when reading our assurance
report, the inherent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of sustainability information should be taken into consideration.


helsinki, 16 february 2015


pricewaterhousecoopers oy


sirpa juutinen                                                       maj-lis steiner

partner                                                              director, authorised public accountant

sustainability & climate change                                      assurance services




risks and risk management
sponda uses effective risk management to ensure the continuity of the company's business operations, a good operating capacity and the
achievement of key objectives. risk management is integrated into the company’s planning system and day-to-day operations. the group’s risk-
bearing capacity is taken into account in its risk management.


sponda manages the risks associated with its operations by identifying, measuring and preventing key uncertainties.


risks are assessed in terms of their probability as well as their financial impact. achieving financial targets is a sign that risk management has
been successful. sponda’s key risks are classified as strategic risks, operational risks, damage and asset risks and financing risks.


environmental responsibility is one of sponda's strategic priorities and its importance is reflected also in the risk management process. in 2014
the risks and opportunities presented by climate change were incorporated into sponda's regular risk assessment.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                     94

                                                                           annual report 2014 - operations and results

integrated risk management as a key strength

sponda has adopted a systematic approach to risk management and one of the company’s key strengths is its ability to integrate risk
management as part of the strategy process, the enterprise resource planning system and business processes.


the responsibility for risk management is determined in accordance with business responsibility. the ultimate responsibility for risk management
lies with the board of directors, which sets risk management objectives, decides on risk management policy, organises risk management and
monitors key risks. business units and corporate functions are responsible for arranging for risk management to be monitored and reported as
part of the company’s other reporting activities. the company’s internal audit function monitors the effectiveness of the risk management system.


risk management is tied to the company’s annual planning process and risks are assessed in a risk survey carried out twice a year. the risk
survey identifies the company’s key risks, assesses the probability of their occurrence and potential impacts thereof, and defines risk
management procedures. the risk survey is updated every autumn in conjunction with budgeting. the group’s risk management guidelines and
the operations handbook are updated to reflect the decisions made on the basis of the risk survey. the risk survey also includes an assessment
of the company’s approach to risks.


sponda’s toolbox of risk management includes risk aversion, risk elimination and reducing the probability of their materialisation. risks can also
be restricted and reduced. a business continuity and recovery plan has been prepared for the contingency that substantial risks materialise.



key features of internal controls relating to financial reporting

the risk management in sponda’s financial reporting process is part of the group’s overall risk management and internal control. the company
has defined the main features of its internal control using the international coso model. the model has been used in defining the control
environment, risk assessment method and the applicable control measures. the internal control solutions adopted by the company also take into
consideration its industry, the management of the group as a single entity and the company form of ownership of properties.


the company’s internal control is a group-wide process that involves the board of directors, executive directors, other staff members and
internal audit. internal control aims to ensure the effectiveness and appropriateness of the company’s operations, the reliability of financial
information and reporting as well as compliance with laws and regulations.


more detailed information on risks and risk management can be found on the company website.




main risks and risk management actions
interest rate fluctuations, a decline in economic occupancy rates resulting from a slowdown in economic growth and a loss of rental income due
to tenant insolvency were the most significant risks for sponda’s operations in 2014. with regard to sponda’s russian business operations, the
exchange rate risk and differences between russian and finnish legislation and the way the authorities operate in the two countries were the
main factors causing risks and uncertainty.


sponda’s risk management was in line with its objectives in 2014 and no substantial risks materialised.


by implementing effective risk management measures, sponda was successful in significantly reducing the probability of key risks materialising
and mitigating their estimated effects.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                  95

                                                                            annual report 2014 - operations and results

risk assessment for 2014 without risk management actions and after risk management actions




  1.   fall in economic occupancy rate


       sponda’s property portfolio is mainly located in helsinki’s city centre and the ruoholahti district. the company spends approximately
       1–1.5 per cent of the property portfolio value on modernisation investments each year. sponda also has a strong focus on customer
       relationship management and sales.


  2.   decline in tenants’ solvency


       sponda carries out regular checks to monitor tenants’ solvency and changes therein. most tenants submit a security deposit
       corresponding to three to six months’ rent at the start of their tenancy. the company has a diverse tenant base representing a wide variety
       of sectors. due to its broad tenant base, sponda is not dependent on individual major clients.


  3.   interest rate risk


       sponda mitigates its interest rate risk through fixed-interest loans and interest rate derivative contracts.


  4.   exchange rate fluctuations


       sponda receives half of its russian rental revenue in us dollars and half in roubles. most of the rents paid in roubles are tied to the us
       dollar or euro exchange rate. the exchange rate risk arising from the use of the rouble is reduced by the fact that a significant portion of
       the company’s own expenses in russia is also paid in roubles. sponda hedges foreign currency-denominated future net cash flows for a
       period of six months. the company’s investments in russia are mainly funded in euros from the parent company balance sheet.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                    96

                                                                          annual report 2014 - corporate governance

  5.   special features of the russian property market


       sponda is a local operator with office in moscow. networking and good relationships with the authorities are important for business
       operations. the company’s portfolio in russia consists of high-quality properties in prime locations. according to sponda’s updated
       strategy, the company is planning to exit the russian market within two to four years.




corporate governance
sponda plc is a public limited company registered in finland and listed on nasdaq omx helsinki ltd. in its decision-making and administration,
sponda complies with the finnish companies act and other legal provisions governing public limited companies, and the company’s articles of
association. sponda also adheres to the insider guidelines of nasdaq omx helsinki ltd and the finnish corporate governance code
2010 issued by the securities market association on 15 june 2010.


as required by the finnish companies act and sponda’s articles of association, control and administration of the company is divided between the
shareholders represented at general meetings, the board of directors and the president and ceo. the president and ceo is assisted by an
executive board.




board of directors
under sponda plc’s articles of association, the company has a board of directors with four to seven (4–7) ordinary members.


members of the board until the annual general meeting of 19 march 2014 were: (chairman) kaj-gustaf bergh (b. 1955), b.sc. (econ.), ll.b.,
managing director, föreningen konstsamfundet r.f.; (deputy chairman) klaus cawén (b. 1957), ll.m., executive vice president, member of the
executive board, kone corporation; christian elfving (b. 1947), m.sc. (econ.), mba (univ. of chicago), ceo, sigrid jusélius foundation;
tuula entelä (b. 1955), b.sc. (econ.), ll.m., vice president, housing business, helsinki region and st. petersburg, deputy to ceo, sato
corporation; juha laaksonen (b. 1952), b.sc. (econ.), member of the directors’ institute of finland; arja talma (b. 1962), m.sc. (econ.),
emba, senior vice president, store sites and investments, kesko corporation; and raimo valo (b. 1955), ll.m., ceo, east office of finnish
industries ltd.


the annual general meeting on 19 march 2014 confirmed that there would be seven members on the board of directors. re-elected to the
board of directors were kaj-gustaf bergh (b. 1955) b.sc. (econ.), ll.b., managing director, föreningen konstsamfundet r.f.; christian elfving
(b. 1947) m.sc. (econ.), mba (univ. of chicago), ceo, sigrid jusélius foundation, juha laaksonen (b. 1952), b.sc. (econ.), member of the
directors’ institute of finland, arja talma (b. 1962), m.sc. (econ.), emba, senior vice president, store sites and investments, kesko
corporation; and raimo valo (b. 1955), ll.m., ceo, east office of finnish industries ltd.


elected as new members were paul hartwall (b. 1981), m.sc. (econ.), ceo, kusinkapital ab, and leena laitinen (b. 1970), m.sc. (econ.),
ceo, oy snellman ab.


sponda’s board members represent broad experience of real estate, industry and finance as well as of commerce and trading. more detailed
information on the members of the board is available under introduction of the board of directors in the annual report.


in its constitutive meeting after the annual general meeting of 19 march 2014, the board of directors elected kaj-gustaf bergh as chairman
and arja talma as deputy chairman.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                             97

                                                                          annual report 2014 - corporate governance


sponda plc shares owned by members of the board of directors as of 31 december 2014:
member of the board                                                                                         number of shares               change

bergh kaj-gustaf, chairman                                                                                             62,572                +6,378

elfving christian                                                                                                       6,538                +3,317

hartwall paul                                                                                                           3,317                +3,317

laaksonen juha                                                                                                          6,538                +3,317

laitinen leena                                                                                                          3,317                +3,317

talma arja, deputy chairman                                                                                            18,995                +3,827

valo raimo                                                                                                             14,025                +3,317


the board of directors meets according to a pre-arranged schedule, 7–11 times per year, and holds additional meetings as necessary. in 2014
the board met 11 times and the average attendance rate of board members was 98,87 per cent. sponda’s board of directors assesses its own
performance and working procedures regularly once a year. the assessment was based on a board review conducted by a third party in
november 2014. the board addressed the findings of the survey and discussed further action in its meeting of december 2014. the review
addressed the composition of the board, its work and materials submitted to it. the results of the survey will be used to improve the work of the
board of directors.


the board has established two permanent committees to assist the board by preparing matters for which the board is responsible. these
committees are the audit committee and the structure and remuneration committee. the board is responsible for carrying out the duties it
assigns to the committees. the committees report regularly to the board on their work. the board confirms written rules of procedure for the
committees. if required, the board can appoint other committees and working groups from among its own members to prepare other matters for
the board’s decision-making.


the president and ceo regularly attends board meetings. sponda’s chief financial officer acts as the secretary of the board.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                               98

                                                                               annual report 2014 - corporate governance



the board of directors 31 december 2014

kaj-gustaf bergh                                    arja talma                                          christian elfving
chairman                                             deputy chairman                                     member
b.sc. (econ.), ll.b., born 1955                      m.sc. (econ.), emba, born 1962                      m.sc. (econ.), mba (univ. of chicago), born 1947
managing director, föreningen konstsamfundet r.f.    senior vice president, store sites and investments, ceo, sigrid jusélius foundation
                                                     kesko corporation
chairman and member of sponda plc’s board of                                                             member of sponda plc’s board of directors since
directors since 2013                                 member of sponda plc’s board of directors since     2013
                                                     2007 and deputy chairman since 2014
career history:                                                                                          career history:
föreningen konstsamfundet r.f, managing director, career history:                                        sigrid jusélius foundation, ceo, 2007–
2006–                                                kesko corporation, senior vice president, store     iridium partners oy ab, chairman of the board,
seb asset management, director, 1998–2001            sites and investments, 2013–                        senior partner, 1996–2007
ane gyllenberg ab, chief executive officer,          rautakesko ltd, president, 2011–2013                ingeris oy ab, chairman of the board, senior
1986–1998                                            kesko corporation, senior vice president, chief     partner, 1992–1995
                                                     financial officer, 2005–2011                        oy terrasilvana ab, managing director, 1986–1991
main positions of trust:                             kesko corporation, vice president, corporate
stockmann plc, chairman of the board (since 18 mar controller, 2004–2005                                 main positions of trust:
2014)                                                oy radiolinja ab, executive vice president, finance oy palsk ab, board member
oy palsk ab, chairman of the board                   and administration, 2001–2003                       oy kelonia ab, chairman of the board (until 23 apr
julius tallberg oy ab, board member (until 11 jun    kpmg wideri oy ab, apa 1992–2001, partner,          2014), board member
2014), chairman of the board (since 11 jun 2014)     2000–2001                                           oy kelonia placering ab, board member
ksf media ab, chairman of the board
fiskars oyj abp, chairman of the board (until 12 mar main positions of trust:                            owns 6,538 sponda shares
2014), board member (since 12 mar 2014)              aktia bank plc, board member
wärtsilä oyj abp, board member                       varma mutual pension insurance company,
jm ab, board member                                  supervisory board member
ramirent oyj, board member
                                                     owns 18,995 sponda shares
owns 62,572 sponda shares




paul hartwall                                       juha laaksonen                                      leena laitinen
member                                              member                                              member
m.sc. (econ.), born 1981                            b.sc. (econ.), born 1952                            m.sc. (econ.), born 1970
ceo, kusinkapital ab                                                                                    ceo, oy snellman ab, 2014–
                                                    member of sponda plc’s board of directors since
member of sponda plc’s board of directors since     2013                                                member of sponda plc’s board of directors since
2014                                                                                                    2014
                                                    career history:
career history:                                     fortum corporation, executive vice president and    career history:
kusinkapital ab, ceo, 2008–                         cfo, 2000–2012                                      oy snellman ab, ceo, 2014–
                                                    fortum corporation, vice president, mergers &       sok, executive vice president consumer goods
main positions of trust:                            acquisitions, 2000                                  trade, helsinki, 2009–2013
hartwall capital oy ab, board member                fortum oil & gas oy, executive vice president,      sok, prisma, chain director, helsinki, 2007–2009
ultivista oy, board member                          finance & planning , 1999                           sok, country manager, managing director, tallinn,
hc ventures, board member (until 14 aug 2014)       neste oyj, chief financial officer, 1998            estonia, 2006–2007
pohjois-karjalan arvopaperi oy, board member                                                            sok, managing director, tallinn, estonia, 2004–2006
värikeskus espoo oy, board member                   main positions of trust:                            sok, prisma director, jyväskylä, 2000–2004
suomen tuontikeskus oy, board member                sato corporation, chairman of the board             sok, prisma director, iisalmi, 1997–2000
                                                    kemira oyj, board member                            sok, customer service manager, kuopio,
owns 3,317 sponda shares                            taaleritehdas oyj, board member                     1996–1997
                                                    caruna networks oy, chairman of the board (since
                                                    30 jun 2014)                                       main positions of trust:
                                                    suomalaisten taidesäätiöiden yhdistys, chairman of etl, board member (since 1 jan 2014)
                                                    the board                                          mehiläinen oy, board member
                                                    fortumintaidesäätiö, chairman of board             etl, commercial committee member (since 3 dec
                                                    alfred kordelin foundation, chairman of the board 2014)
                                                    (since 7 nov 2014)                                 deputy member as a representative for etl at ek
                                                                                                       delegation (since 1 jan 2015)
                                                    owns 6,538 sponda shares
                                                                                                       owns 3,317 sponda shares




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                          99

                                                                         annual report 2014 - corporate governance



raimo valo
member
ll.m., born 1955
ceo, east office of finnish industries ltd

member of sponda plc’s board of directors since
2011

career history:
east office of finnish industries ltd, ceo, 2013–
septem partners oy, partner, 2010–2013
oao swedbank, russia, chairman of the board and
ceo, 2008–2010
glitnir, russia, asset management, private banking,
ceo, 2007–2008
svenska handelsbanken zao, moscow, chairman of
the management board and ceo, 2004–2007
bank svenska handelsbanken (polska) sp.a.,
chairman of the management board and ceo,
2000–2005

main positions of trust:
nassim investments oy, chairman of the board
spinverse oy, board member (since 3 apr 2014)
ccs cold cargo solutions, chairman of the board
(until september 2014)
m-x sport oy, chairman of the board
neo industrial oyj, board member
septem partners oy, board member

owns 14,025 sponda shares




duties of the board of directors
sponda’s board of directors has prepared rules of procedure for itself and its committees as a guideline for operations. the rules of procedure
define the tasks of the board, its chairman and deputy chairman and the committees. according to the rules of procedure, the board is
responsible for the company’s administration and for the appropriate organisation of its operations. the board guides and supervises the
company’s executive management, approves the company’s strategic objectives and the principles underlying its risk management function, and
ensures the effective functionality of its management systems. the board also approves the annual budget and decides on significant individual
investments. in addition, the board approves corporate responsibility policies such as sponda’s code of conduct.


the board of directors appoints the president and ceo of the company, chooses the members of the executive board based on the president
and ceo’s proposal, and decides their terms of employment and incentive schemes. the board also decides on remuneration schemes for
employees.


the board of directors has quorum when more than half of its members are present.




board committees and working groups
the board appoints the members and chairmen of the committees from among its number. the committee members’ term of office is one year,
ending at the conclusion of the annual general meeting following their election. both committees have at least three (3) members. a committee
meeting has quorum when the chairman and at least one other member are present.


the audit committee comprises at least three board members who are independent of the company and its subsidiaries and have sufficient
knowledge of accounting and financial statement practice. up until the annual general meeting of 19 march 2014, the audit committee
comprised arja talma as chairman, raimo valo as deputy chairman and christian elfving and juha laaksonen as ordinary members. as of
19 march 2014 the audit committee comprises arja talma as chairman, raimo valo as deputy chairman and paul hartwall and juha
laaksonen as ordinary members. the main duties of the audit committee are to evaluate financial reporting and risk management and to
examine financial reviews. in 2014, the audit committee convened four (4) times and the average attendance rate was 100 per cent.



this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                            100

                                                                            annual report 2014 - corporate governance

the structure and remuneration committee comprises at least three board members who are independent of the company. until the annual
general meeting of 19 march 2014, the structure and remuneration committee comprised kaj-gustaf bergh as chairman, klaus cawén as
deputy chairman and tuula entelä as an ordinary member. as of 19 march 2014, the structure and remuneration committee comprises kaj-
gustaf bergh as chairman, christian elfving as deputy chairman and leena laitinen as an ordinary member. the main duties of the structure
and remuneration committee are to prepare matters relating to the nomination of senior management and their remuneration as well as matters
relating to strategy and corporate structure. in 2014, the committee convened three (3) times and the average attendance rate was 77,77 per
cent.




remuneration and other financial benefits paid to the
board of directors
the annual general meeting confirms in advance the remuneration payable to the board of directors annually. in the annual general meeting
held on 19 march 2014, the following were confirmed as the annual remunerations for the members of the board of directors:


chairman                                                                                                                               eur 60,000

deputy chairman                                                                                                                        eur 36,000

member                                                                                                                                 eur 31,200



of this annual remuneration, 40 per cent is paid in sponda plc shares purchased on the market. the shares shall be purchased within two weeks
of the release of the interim report of the first quarter.


additionally, the chairman of the board will be paid a fee of eur 1,000 and members eur 600 per board meeting attended. members of the
board will be paid eur 600 per committee meeting and the chairman of the audit committee eur 1,000 per meeting of the audit committee.


the board of directors has no other remuneration schemes. members of the board of directors are not in an employment or service relationship
with the company.


in 2014, members of sponda’s board of directors were paid a total of eur 313,400 in remuneration (incl. annual remuneration and meeting
fees) as follows:


                                                   annual     meeting    number of shares included in annual   total remuneration (incl. annual and
name
                                            remuneration, €    fees, €                         remuneration                        meeting fees), €

kaj-gustaf bergh (chairman)                          60,000    11,800                                  6,378                                71,800

klaus cawén (deputy chairman until 19                           2,400                                                                        2,400
march 2014)

christian elfving                                    31,200     7,800                                  3,317                                39,000

tuula entelä (member until 19 march                             2,400                                                                        2,400
2014)

paul hartwall (member since 19 march                 31,200     6,000                                  3,317                                37,200
2014)

juha laaksonen                                       31,200     8,400                                  3,317                                39,600

leena laitinen (member since 19 march                31,200     4,200                                  3,317                                35,400
2014)

arja talma (deputy chairman since 19                 36,000    10,000                                  3,827                                46,000
march 2014)

raimo valo                                           31,200     8,400                                  3,317                                39,600

total                                               252,000    61,400                                26,790                                313,400




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                             101

                                                                           annual report 2014 - corporate governance


the general meeting
the general meeting of shareholders is sponda’s highest decision-making body. the annual general meeting (agm) is held once a year on a
date determined by the board of directors and within six (6) months of the end of the previous financial year. the agm considers the matters
stipulated in the finnish companies act and sponda’s articles of association. these include among others confirmation of the financial
statements, deciding on the use of the profit shown in the balance sheet, electing the members of the board of directors and deciding on their
remuneration, and appointing the company’s auditors and deciding on their remuneration.


sponda publishes the notice of the agm in accordance with its articles of association on the company website and a notice of the agm’s time
and place, as well as the website address where the notice of the agm can be found, in at least one daily national newspaper determined by the
board of directors. shareholders entitled to attend the agm are required to be registered before agm meeting in the company’s shareholder
register and to inform the company of their intention to attend the meeting in the manner stipulated in the meeting notification.


extraordinary general meetings are convened when deemed necessary by the board of directors or when required by law.




nomination board
the shareholders' nomination board assists the annual general meeting in the nomination of members for sponda’s board of directors and with
regard to their compensation.


the permanent shareholders’ nomination board appointed by the annual general meeting on 18 march 2013 prepares proposals on candidates
for the board of directors and their compensation for the next annual general meeting.


the nomination board consists of three members appointed by the shareholders. in addition, the chairman of the board of directors shall act as
an expert member of the nomination board. the three shareholders who are entered in the company’s shareholders’ register maintained by
euroclear finland ltd and whose portion of the votes produced by all the shares in the company according to the shareholders’ register are the
greatest on 30 september of the calendar year preceding the annual general meeting have the right to appoint members representing
shareholders. if a shareholder does not wish to exercise its right to appoint a member to the nomination board, the right shall be transferred to
the next largest shareholder according to the shareholders' register who otherwise would not have the right to appoint a member.


the nomination board is convened by the chairman of the board of directors. the member appointed by the largest shareholder shall act as the
chairman of the nomination board, unless otherwise decided by the nomination board. the nomination board shall submit its proposal to the
board of directors by 30 january before the annual general meeting.


the three largest shareholders (holdings on 30 september 2014) and their representatives on the nomination board were:


•   oy palsk ab, 14,89% of the shares and votes, represented by kaj-gustaf bergh (b. 1955), b.sc. (econ.), ll.b., managing director,
    föreningen konstsamfundet r.f.;
•   varma mutual pension insurance company, 10,27% of the shares and votes, represented by pekka pajamo (b. 1962), m.sc. (econ.), cfo,
    varma mutual pension insurance company;
•   hc fastigheter holding oy ab, 10,06% of the shares and votes, represented by ole johansson (b. 1951), b.sc. (econ.), deputy chairman of
    the board of directors, hartwall capital oy ab.


all members of the nomination board are independent of the company.




the president and ceo
sponda’s president and ceo is appointed by the company’s board of directors. the president and ceo manages the company’s day-to-day
operations in accordance with the instructions and stipulations of the board of directors. the president and ceo is responsible for ensuring that
the company’s accounts comply with legal provisions and that the company has sufficient capital funds for its purposes. the president and ceo




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                              102

                                                                            annual report 2014 - corporate governance

is assisted by the group’s executive board, of which he is the chairman. kari inkinen (b. 1957) has served as sponda’s president and ceo since
2005.


the president and ceo’s terms of employment are set out in a written contract approved by the board. under the terms of the contract, the term
of notice of the president and ceo is six months. should the company terminate the president and ceo’s contract, he is entitled to
compensation equivalent to twelve (12) months’ salary. the retirement age of the president and ceo is 63, and his pension is determined in
accordance with the finnish employees pension act (tel). the president and ceo is covered by a contribution-based group pension insurance
scheme. sponda plc pays the annual premium under the scheme until the president and ceo reaches the age of 63. the insurance premium
amounts to 7.5 per cent of the president and ceo’s fixed annual salary.


the president and ceo is paid a total salary, and in addition he participates in the company’s annual remuneration scheme. the maximum
remuneration payable under the company’s annual remuneration scheme is 40 per cent of the president and ceo´s annual salary.


the president and ceo also participates in the long-term share-based incentive scheme for the group’s key personnel approved by the board of
directors. in 2012, sponda’s board of directors decided on the implementation of a new incentive scheme, which is effective from the beginning
of 2012. the incentive scheme comprises three three-year vesting periods, which correspond to the calendar years 2012–2014, 2013–2015, and
2014–2016. the board of directors decides separately on the earning criteria and the targets to be established for each vesting period.


the earning criteria for the 2012–2014 vesting period are the group’s average return on capital employed (roce) in the financial periods
2012–2014 and the group’s cumulative operational cash earnings per share (ceps) for the financial periods 2012–2014. in addition, the board
of directors will assess the group’s success in relation to the prevailing market conditions. the earning criteria for the 2013–2015 vesting period
are the group’s average return on capital employed (roce) in the financial periods 2013–2015, the group’s cumulative operational cash
earnings per share (ceps) for the financial periods 2013–2015, and real estate sales. in addition, the board of directors will assess the group’s
success in relation to the prevailing market conditions. the board of directors monitors the fulfilment of the targets set for the earning criteria
regularly.


any remuneration paid, less taxes, is used to purchase the company’s shares on behalf of the persons participating in the incentive scheme. the
remuneration amount includes the purchased company shares as well as taxes and tax-like charges incurred from the remuneration to the
persons participating in the scheme and settled by the company.


the shares may not be disposed of within a set commitment period following their receipt. the commitment period for the 2012–2014 vesting
period ends on 31 december 2017, the commitment period for the 2013–2015 vesting period on 31 december 2018, and the commitment period
for the 2014–2016 vesting period on 31 december 2019. after the commitment period ends, a key person must own one half of the shares paid
on the basis of the scheme, until the value of the shares he or she owns equals the amount of his or her gross annual salary. this ownership
obligation shall be in effect for as long as the employment contract of the key person continues.


the value of the remuneration to be paid for each vesting period shall be no more than the gross annual salary of the key person participating in
the scheme. the gross annual salary refers to the total salary for the previous calendar year including fringe benefits and excluding
remunerations paid on the basis of the annual remuneration system and the long-term share-based incentive system.


in 2014, salaries paid to the president and ceo amounted to eur 444,662.00 and other remuneration to eur 334,814.14, in total eur
779,476.14. remunerations paid to the president and ceo in 2014 consist of the annual remuneration and the remuneration based on the long-
term share-based incentive scheme in effect in 2014, based on which 36,519 sponda plc shares were purchased for the president and ceo.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                  103

                                                                                       annual report 2014 - corporate governance


salaries and remuneration paid to president and ceo

           annual salary,        fringe benefits,                                                 annual                  incentive      remunerations                   all
                                                             annual salary and fringe
                                                                                             remuneration,            remuneration,            in total,           in total,
                     € **)                 € ***)                    benefits, total, €
                                                                                                         €                        €                   €                   €

 2014          430,322.00                 14,340.00                           444,662.00          64,398.55               270,415.59          334,814.45       779,476.14
 *)


 2013          427,290.78                 12,590.00                           439,880.78         129,892.30               499,647.55          629,539.85     1,069,420.63

 2012          416,607.06                 13,500.00                           430,107.06         107,626.30               172,560.68          280,186.98       710,294.04



*) amounts in this table are those actually paid in 2014. the variable remunerations (annual remuneration and incentive remuneration) are based on the 2013 results.

**) annual salary excl. fringe benefits

***) car and phone benefit




executive board
the executive board prepares the business strategy and budget and monitors the results of operations. the executive board also considers
investments and divestments of strategic significance to the whole group, as well as the company’s operational guidelines and reporting. the
executive board comprises the president and ceo, the cfo, the svp for corporate planning and ir, and the heads of the business units, in
total six persons.


the members of the executive board are insured with a contribution-based group pension insurance. sponda plc pays the annual insurance
premium until the member reaches the age of 63. the insurance premium amounts to 7.5 per cent of each member’s fixed annual salary.


the members of the executive board participate in the long-term share-based incentive scheme for the group’s key personnel approved by the
board of directors. in 2012, sponda’s board of directors decided on the implementation of a new incentive scheme, which is effective from the
beginning of 2012. the incentive scheme comprises three three-year vesting periods, which correspond to the calendar years 2012–2014,
2013–2015, and 2014–2016. the board of directors decides separately on the earning criteria and the targets to be established for each vesting
period.


the earning criteria for the 2012–2014 vesting period are the group’s average return on capital employed (roce) in the financial periods
2012–2014 and the group’s cumulative operational cash earnings per share (ceps) for the financial periods 2012–2014. in addition, the board
of directors will assess the group’s success in relation to the prevailing market conditions. the earning criteria for the 2013–2015 vesting period
are the group’s average return on capital employed (roce) in the financial periods 2013–2015, the group’s cumulative operational cash
earnings per share (ceps) for the financial periods 2013–2015, and real estate sales. in addition, the board of directors will assess the group’s
success in relation to the prevailing market conditions. the earning criteria for the 2014–2016 vesting period are the group’s average return on
capital employed (roce) in the financial periods 2014–2016, the group’s cumulative operational cash earnings per share (ceps) for the
financial periods 2014–2016, and real estate sales. in addition, the board of directors will assess the group’s success in relation to the prevailing
market conditions. the board of directors monitors the fulfilment of the targets set for the earning criteria regularly.


any remuneration paid, less taxes, is used to purchase the company’s shares on behalf of the persons participating in the incentive scheme. the
remuneration amount includes the purchased company shares as well as taxes and tax-like charges incurred from the remuneration to the
persons participating in the scheme and settled by the company.


the shares may not be disposed of within a set commitment period following their receipt. the commitment period for the 2012–2014 vesting
period ends on 31 december 2017, the commitment period for the 2013–2015 vesting period on 31 december 2018, and the commitment period
for the 2014–2016 vesting period on 31 december 2019. after the commitment period ends, a member of the group’s executive board must own
one half of the shares paid on the basis of the scheme, until the value of the shares he or she owns equals the amount of his or her gross annual
salary. this ownership obligation shall be in effect for as long as the employment contract of the member of the executive board continues.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                                       104

                                                                           annual report 2014 - corporate governance

the value of the remuneration to be paid from each earning period shall be no more than the gross annual salary of the key person participating
in the system. the gross annual salary refers to the total salary for the previous calendar year including fringe benefits and excluding
remunerations paid on the basis of the annual remuneration system and the long-term share-based incentive system.


sponda plc shares owned by members of the executive board as of 31 december 2014:


name                                                                                                         no. of shares                 change

inkinen kari                                                                                                       414,563                 +36,519

arrhenius pia                                                                                                       58,832                 +10,338

hjelt erik                                                                                                         129,088                 +14,046

hynynen ossi                                                                                                       181,649                 +18,316

sara-aho sirpa                                                                                                     120,755                 +11,068

tanhuanpää veli-pekka                                                                                               14,377                  +6,742




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                             105

                                                                                 annual report 2014 - corporate governance



the executive board 31 december 2014

kari inkinen                                         pia arrhenius                                         erik hjelt
president and ceo                                    senior vice president, corporate planning and ir chief financial officer
msc (eng.), born 1957                                emba, born 1968                                  ll.lic., emba, born 1961

career history:                                      member of the executive board since 2009              member of the executive board since 2007
sponda plc, president and ceo, 2005–
kapiteeli plc, president and ceo, 1999–2005          career history:                                   career history:
yit corporation, director, 1985–1998;                sponda plc, senior vice president, corporate      sponda plc, chief financial officer, 2009–
   yit corporation residential                       planning and ir, 2014-                            sponda plc, senior vice president, legal affairs and
   construction, director,1995–1998                  sponda plc, senior vice president, communications treasury, 2007–2009
   yit corporation, regional director,               and ir, 2009–2014                                 kapiteeli plc, senior vice president, finance and
   1992–1995                                         sponda plc, communications and ir manager,        legal affairs, 1999–2006
                                                     2004–2008                                         arsenal asset management company ltd, chief
main positions of trust:                             sponda plc, communications assistant, 2003–2004 legal counsel, 1994–1999
rake oy, board member                                                                                  savings bank of finland - sbf ltd, bank manager,
certeum oy, board member (since 30 apr 2014)         owns 58,832 sponda shares                         1993

owns 414,563 sponda shares                                                                                 owns 128,278 sponda shares




ossi hynynen                                         sirpa sara-aho                                        veli-pekka tanhuanpää
senior vice president, investment properties         senior vice president, russia                         senior vice president, property development
msc (eng.), born 1955                                commercial college graduate, born 1963                msc (eng.), crem, born 1967

member of the executive board since 2007             member of the executive board since 2007              member of the executive board since 2012

career history:                                         career history:                                     career history:
sponda plc, senior vice president, investment           sponda plc, senior vice president, russia, 2007–    sponda plc, senior vice president, property
properties, 2009–                                       sponda plc, regional manager, russia and the baltic development, 2012–
sponda plc, senior vice president, office and retail countries, 2006                                        sponda plc, director, project development,
properties, 2007–2008                                   nordea bank finland plc, vice president, 1985–2005 2007–2011
kapiteeli plc, president and ceo, 2005–2006                                                                 kapiteeli plc, project and construction manager,
kapiteeli plc, senior vice president, office and retail main positions of trust:                            2003–2007
property, 2003–2006                                     solteq oyj, board member                            ncc construction, project manager, 1998–2003
kapiteeli plc, senior vice president, real estate
development, 1999–2002                                  owns 120,755 sponda shares                          owns 12,712 sponda shares
propaulig ltd, director of marketing, 1993–1999
haka ltd, construction manager, 1988–1993

main positions of trust:
rakli – the finnish association of building owners
and construction clients, member of the board

owns 181,649 sponda shares




external and internal audits
auditors

the company has two auditors: a firm of authorised public accountants (apa) and an auditor approved by the central chamber of commerce.
the auditors are responsible for examining the financial statements, the accounts and administration of the parent company and the group
according to the auditing act, and for submitting a report on their audit to the annual general meeting.


sponda plc’s auditors from 1 january to 19 march 2014 were esa kailiala, apa and kpmg oy ab under the supervision of principal auditor kai
salli, apa. the deputy auditor was lasse holopainen, apa. the annual general meeting of 19 march 2014 reappointed the same auditors for
the company. esa kailiala has served as sponda plc’s auditor from 2013, kai salli since 2008 and lasse holopainen in 2003–2004 and again
from 2013.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                           106

                                                                           annual report 2014 - corporate governance

the auditing fees paid to the auditors in 2014 amounted to eur 302,000. a further eur 128,000 was paid to the auditors for other consulting
services. these fees, totalling eur 430,000, include all the fees paid by group companies.



internal audit

sponda’s operational efficiency, financial performance and risk management are audited internally. the internal audit is performed by an expert
appointed from outside the company. the internal audit reports functionally to the audit committee and administratively to the president and ceo.




insiders
sponda complies with the insider guidelines issued by nasdaq omx helsinki ltd. these recommend that insiders wishing to trade in the
company’s shares do so at times when the market has the fullest possible information on matters that might materially affect the share price.
accordingly, sponda’s insiders are not permitted to trade in sponda’s securities for a period commencing 21 days before the company publishes
its interim or annual reports.


the company’s statutory public insiders are its board of directors and the executive board and the auditors. in addition, the company maintains
a company-specific insider register, comprising a permanent company-specific insider register and a project-specific insider register. the
permanent insider register lists the names of individuals who have regular access to insider information by virtue of their role or duties. the
project-specific insider register lists the names of individuals to whom the company discloses insider information regarding a particular project.
the holdings of the company’s public insiders are available for inspection in the insider register maintained by euroclear finland ltd. the register
of public insiders is also available on the company website at www.sponda.com.




risk management
sponda uses effective risk management to secure the company’s operations, their continuity and the achievement of key objectives. risk
management is integrated into the company’s planning system and day-to-day operations. the group’s risk-bearing capacity is taken into
account in its risk management. sponda manages the risks associated with its operations by identifying, measuring and preventing key
uncertainties.


risks are assessed in terms of their probability as well as their financial impact. achieving financial targets is a sign that risk management has
been successful. sponda’s key risks are classified as strategic risks, operational risks, damage and asset risks and financing risks.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                  107

                                                                          annual report 2014 - corporate governance

risk management organisation




sponda has adopted a systematic approach to risk management and one of the company’s key strengths is its ability to integrate risk
management as part of the strategy process, the enterprise resource planning system and business processes.


the responsibility for risk management is determined in accordance with business responsibility. the ultimate responsibility for risk management
lies with the board of directors, which sets risk management objectives, decides on risk management policy, organises risk management and
monitors key risks. business units and corporate functions are responsible for arranging for risk management to be monitored and reported as
part of the company’s other reporting activities. the company’s internal audit function monitors the effectiveness of the risk management system.


risk management is tied to the company’s annual planning process and risks are assessed in a risk survey carried out twice a year. the risk
survey identifies the company’s key risks, assesses the probability of their occurrence and potential impacts thereof, and defines risk
management procedures. the group’s risk management instructions and guidelines and the operations manual are updated according to the
decisions concerning risk management made on the basis of the risk survey. the risk survey also includes an assessment of the company’s
approach to risks.


sponda’s toolbox of risk management includes risk aversion, risk elimination and reducing the probability of their materialisation. risks can also
be restricted and reduced. a business continuity and recovery plan has been prepared for the contingency that substantial risks materialise.


key risks in terms of the company’s operations are listed in the annual report’s risks and risk management section and on company's web-site
at www.sponda.com >investors >risks.


the executive management reports group-level risks to the board of directors twice a year. risk reporting at executive board and business unit
levels takes place as part of the enterprise resource planning system.


sponda’s audit committee has reviewed the principles of internal control and the internal audit guidelines. the audit committee approves
annually the internal audit plan.


the corporate governance statement is available on the company website.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                               108

                                                                          annual report 2014 - corporate governance


sponda as an investment
sponda is a real estate investment company that specialises in leasing, developing and owning commercial properties.


sponda aims for profitable growth through customer-focused operations, active property development and by purchasing properties. for its
owners, sponda is a good and stable investment. sponda looks to increase shareholder value and pay a regular annual dividend. according to
sponda’s dividend policy, sponda pays a dividend of approximately 50 per cent of the operating cash flow per share for the financial year, taking
into account the economic situation and the company’s development needs.


sponda’s strengths are a property portfolio largely concentrated in the best locations in the growing helsinki metropolitan area, and a high-
quality, diverse and balanced lease portfolio. active property development operations and professional, experienced and committed management
and personnel give the company an even more significant competitive edge.


the property portfolio comprises a broad selection of office, retail, shopping centre and logistics properties. the company aims to optimise cash
flow from operations through active management of the existing property portfolio. the company has a considerable land property and numerous
potential sites for property development.



shares and share ownership

sponda’s shares are quoted on nasdaq omx helsinki on the large cap list. the share’s trading code is sdaiv.


in addition to nasdaq omx helsinki, sponda shares were traded on several alternative marketplaces.


the weighted average price of sponda's share in 2014 was eur 3.68. the highest quotation on nasdaq omx helsinki ltd was eur 4.10 and
the lowest eur 3.25. turnover during the year totaled 73.4 million shares or eur 270.3 million. the closing price of the share on 30 december
2014 was eur 3.62 and the market capitalisation of the company's share capital at the end of the year stood at eur 1,024.7 million.


at the end of 2014, sponda had a total of 8,841 shareholders. nominee-registered shareholders accounted for 51.3 per cent of the shares and
votes. foreign and nominee-registered shareholders together held 52.9 per cent of the shares and votes.



annual general meeting

the 2015 annual general meeting of sponda plc will be held in the helsinki hall at finlandia hall mannerheimintie 13 e, helsinki, (doors m4 and
k4) on monday, 16 march 2015, starting at 2:00 p.m. instructions for registering for the agm are given on sponda's website, in the investors
section.


to attend the meeting, shareholders must be entered in the company’s shareholder register maintained by euroclear finland ltd no later than 4
march 2015.



dividend payment

the board of directors proposes to the annual general meeting that a dividend of eur 0.19 per share be distributed for the 2014 financial year.
the dividend approved by the agm will be paid to shareholders registered in the company’s shareholder register maintained by euroclear
finland ltd on 18 march 2015, the record date confirmed by the board. the board proposes to the annual general meeting that the dividend be
paid at the close of the settlement period on 25 march 2015.



changes of name and address

shareholders are kindly requested to notify their bank or euroclear finland ltd, whichever holds the shareholder’s book-entry securities account,
of any changes of address.




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                109

                                                              annual report 2014 - corporate governance




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents   110

                                                                          annual report 2014 - corporate governance




financial information 2015
sponda will publish its interim reports in 2015 on the following dates:


interim report january–march 2015
on tuesday 5 may 2015


interim report january–june 2015
on tuesday 4 august 2015


interim report january–september 2015
on tuesday 3 november 2015


sponda publishes all of its material for investors in finnish and english. the material is available on the company website, in the investors
section.


releases can be ordered from the company website or by contacting sponda’s communications:


sponda plc, corporate communications
p.o. box 940, fi-00101 helsinki
tel. +358 (0)20 431 31
e-mail: nina.saajasto(at)sponda.fi




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                                111

                                                                          annual report 2014 - corporate governance

sponda’s investor relations

the main task of sponda’s investor relations is to provide the market with sufficient and accurate information so that investors can assess the
company’s appeal as an investment today and in the future. investor relations ensures that the company’s communications are equal, timely and
transparent.


sponda’s board of directors is responsible for the publication of the company’s interim and annual financial statements. the president and ceo,
the chief financial officer and the senior vice president, corporate planning and ir are responsible for communications with sponda’s
investors. the quiet period begins three weeks before the publication date of the financial results. sponda does not issue comments or meet with
representatives of the capital markets during the quiet period.


information on the banks and stockbrokers who have announced that they conduct investment analyses of sponda’s business operations is
provided on the company website at www.sponda.com. the list may be incomplete and sponda takes no responsibility for the assessments
contained in these analyses.




contact details
sponda plc
p.o. box 940
fi-00101 helsinki


street address:
korkeavuorenkatu 45
fi-00130 helsinki


telephone +358 (0)20 431 31
fax +358 (0)20 431 3333
www.sponda.com
firstname.lastname(at)sponda.fi



investor relations and communications

pia arrhenius
senior vice president, corporate planning and investor relations
tel. +358 (0)20 431 3454
pia.arrhenius(at)sponda.fi


anita riikonen
communications manager
tel. +358 (0)20 431 3470
anita.riikonen(at)sponda.fi


susanna aula
communications officer
tel. +358 (0)20 431 3357
susanna.aula(at)sponda.fi


nina saajasto
communications assistant
tel. +358 (0)20 431 3390
nina.saajasto(at)sponda.fi




this pdf is composed of selected elements from the sponda annual report and may deviate from generated documents                             112

