environmental and
social report
     2010
     (march 2010)

contents
editorial policy for environmental             sumitomo forestry's material issues
                                   …   4
and social report 2010
                                                providing timber products and materials    …… 21
                                                from sustainable forests
our top commitment         ………………      6        providing environmentally friendly homes   …… 34
                                                promoting global warming                   …… 43
                                                countermeasures through our business
overview of sumitomo forestry
                                                promoting family-centric employee lifestyles … 50
business units and messages   ……       9
from directors in charge
                                               initiatives to preserve biodiversity … 59
sumitomo forestry's csr and
                                 …… 15
four material issues
                                               global compact                              …… 62


process for formulating the      …… 19         third party evaluation                      …… 64
material issues




                                           1

performance data

management system                                         environmental report
 corporate governance       ………………………            67        environmental vision      …………………………… 114
  status of corporate governance and                        environmental philosophy and
  internal controls       …………………………             67         environmental policies       …………………… 114
 compliance and risk management      ………         69         implementing the medium-term
  compliance and risk management                            environmental management plan    ………… 115
                                           ……    69
                                                           fiscal 2009 activity plans and results     ……… 119
economic report                                             fiscal 2009 activity plans and results     …… 119
                                                            initiatives at group companies:
   promotion of the project speed   …………         71         sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd.     … 123
   long-term management plan                                fiscal 2009 activity plans and results      … 124
   financial performance         …………………         71        balance of input and output         ………………… 126
   contributing to the community by                         environmental impact of business
   improving social infrastructure        ………    72         activities       ……………………………………… 126
                                                            life cycle assessments       …………………… 127
social report                                               environmental impact from the
                                                            construction of a new house       …………… 129
 major initiatives in fiscal 2009        ……………   73         contribution to expanding carbon stocks … 129
  together with our customers              ………   73        reducing co2 emissions          …………………… 130
  together with our business partners      ………   74         global warming and sumitomo forestry's
  together with our shareholders           ………   74         role        ……………………………………………… 130
  together with our employees              ………   75         reducing the eﬀects of business
  together with society                                     operations on global warming         ……… 130
                                           ………   75
 together with our customers                                reducing the environmental impact of
                                         ……………   76
                                                            households        …………………………………… 133
  providing high-quality homes with
                                                           zero emissions         ……………………………… 138
  excellent all-round balance             …………   76
  promoting communication with                              policy on resources            …………………… 138
  customers                               …………   83         zero emissions initiatives         ………………… 138
  property development programs           …………   85         proper disposal of demolition waste        …… 140
  promoting housing distribution          …………   86         resource recycling           ………………………… 141
 together with our business partners        ……   87        sustainability of timber resources         ……… 142
  providing high-quality timber and                          conservation and sustainable use of
  building materials        …………………………           87          timber resources         ………………………… 142
  procuring sustainable raw materials ……         87          conservation and sustainable use of
  communication with business partners                       japanese timber resources       ……………… 144
                                            ……   89
 together with our shareholders                              preservation and sustainable use of
                                     …………        92
                                                             overseas forest resources       ……………… 149
  communication with shareholders and ……         92
                                                           preserving biodiversity      ……………………… 151
  investors
  inclusion in socially responsible                        management of hazardous materials          ……… 154
  investment indexes         …………………………          93        eﬃcient use of water resources            ………… 158
 together with our employees        ……………   94             environmental management            ………………… 159
  creating a workplace in which a diverse                   promoting environmental management          … 159
  range of employees can work together                      promoting environmental education and
  with enthusiasm         …………………………… 94                    training      ………………………………………… 160
  creating a safe and healthy workplace …… 101              environmental risk management      ………… 161
  development of sumitomo forestry's                       research & development          …………………… 163
  human resources       …………………………… 103
                                                            r&d policy        ……………………………………… 163
 together with society    ………………………… 106
                                                            r&d for sustainable forest management       … 163
  ongoing communications with society       …… 106
                                                             r&d for popularization of environmentally
  evaluation by society     ………………………… 107                                         ……………………………… 164
                                                             friendly housing
  social contribution through core business … 108          promoting environment-related businesses … 166
  other social contribution activities     ……… 112         environmental activities in oﬃces         ………… 170
  investment to realize a sustainable
  society        ………………………………………… 113




                                                      2

initiatives at branch oﬃces and plants
 pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi)       ……… 171
 pt. ast indonesia (asti)             ………………… 173


g3 content index                      ………………… 176




                                                    3

purpose of this report
the purpose of this report is to inform a wide range of people about the sumitomo forestry group's policies and
initiatives aimed at realizing a sustainable society.

sumitomo forestry believes that it is essential to clarify the important issues it faces. accordingly, the company has
formulated four material issues to address, based on the results of a survey given to its stakeholders in fiscal 2007. in
fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry gave priority to these four material issues in its initiatives, the results of which are
presented in this report.


                      this section presents the views of internal and external stakeholders.




reliability of report content
the respective departments of sumitomo forestry have endeavored to ensure accuracy by using appropriate
measurement and data collection methods for the initiatives and results reported herein. these methods are also
disclosed when relevant. sumitomo forestry has solicited third-party opinions from external specialists to impartially
assess the appropriateness of the report's content and the company's csr activities.



reference guidelines
   sustainability reporting guidelines (third edition), global reporting initiative (gri)
   environmental reporting guidelines (2007 edition), japanese ministry of the environment



reporting period
april 2009 to march 2010
(the period also includes some activities from april 2010 as well as future expectations.)



companies covered in report
although this report focuses mainly on sumitomo forestry co., ltd., it also includes details on activities by the following
group companies, each of which has a significant impact on sustainability in its own right.

sumitomo forestry residential co., ltd.; sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.1; sumitomo forestry home engineering co.,
ltd.; sumitomo forestry home service co., ltd.; sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd.; sumitomo forestry
timberland management co., ltd.; sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd.; sumitomo forestry arch tecno co., ltd.2;
sumirin agro-products co., ltd.; sumirin life assist co., ltd.; sumirin business service co., ltd.; kowa lumber co., ltd.;
sumitomo forestry singapore ltd.; pt. kutai timber indonesia (kti); paragon wood product (shanghai) co., ltd.; fillcare
co., ltd.; sumitomo forestry school of professional building techniques; alpine mdf industries pty ltd.; nelson pine
industries ltd. (npil); open bay timber ltd. (obt); kawasaki biomass electric power corporation; limited partnership
agreement for investment in the fund to continue the activities of small and medium-scale corporations in the housing
and related industries; pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi); pt. ast indonesia (asti); henley properties group; and home
eco logistics co., ltd.

1 includes information regarding the former toyo plywood co., ltd.
2 includes information regarding the former sumirin base techno co., ltd.




                                                             4

information disclosure method
in fiscal 2010, the method of publication of the environmental and social report was reviewed and it was decided to
publish the report only on the website. previously, this information was published and distributed as a brochure. pdfs of
the report are publicly available for download and printing.

   pdf download / back issues(http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/2010/download/index.html)




publication date
august 2010
(previous: july 2009; next: august 2011)



publication team
sumitomo forestry co., ltd.
keidanren kaikan, 1–3–2 otemachi, chiyoda-ku, tokyo, japan 100–8270
corporate communications department, csr team
environmental management department




        what is sustainability?

   sustainability is the idea of utilizing the gifts bestowed upon us by the natural environment in a way that ensures
   future generations will also have access to those gifts. the concept encompasses the need to resolve various
   social problems of the day so that people around the world can live in prosperity.



                       i would think that this report would not only give an account of my company's activities, but can also be expected
                       to report on the impact that it has on the stakeholders that read the report and the changes in behavior that it
                       encourages. i expect this report to convey stakeholders' wishes and what we would like to achieve together.
                       (company employee)




                                                                   5

       sumitomo forestry's mission: living in harmony with the environment
environmental issues such as global warming have become significant
shared challenges for the people of the world. for sumitomo forestry,
these environmental challenges are directly and inextricably linked to our
company, whose businesses have always been centered around natural
resources—forests, trees, and wood—since its establishment. protecting
the natural environment is extremely critical, not only to preserving
management resources and the foundation of our businesses, but also for
the possibilities of leveraging our many years of experience gained through
our core businesses to support solutions for a diverse range of
environmental challenges. wood is a natural resource familiar to all, having
played a central role in human life for generations, and continuing to use
wood resources appropriately is essential. we will continue our efforts to                      ry u yano
realize environmental symbiosis—living in harmony with the                         chairman and representative director
environment—as only sumitomo forestry can, as an enterprise that takes
pride in our businesses that leverage wood, and that recognizes the unlimited business opportunities inherent in such
activities.




       preserving biodiversity
interest in biodiversity continues to increase in anticipation of the convening of the 10th meeting of the conference of
the parties to the convention on biodiversity (cop 10) in nagoya in october 2010. the targets set in 2002 of
dramatically reducing by 2010 the speed with which biodiversity is lost have not been achieved, however, and the
situation remains critically severe.

the sumitomo forestry group owns vast areas of forest: veritable treasure houses of biodiversity. we believe that forest
resources are infinitely sustainable resources born of abundant and diverse ecosystems and thus have always managed
forests in biodiversity-friendly ways. from a global perspective, however, forests continue to be lost due to illegal logging
and other activities. even in japan, many degraded forests can be found that are left alone and unmanaged. we believe
we must redouble our efforts to bring back lost forests globally and proactively promote the use of timber and timber
products that contribute to the revitalization of the forestry industry in japan.




                                                             6

      focusing on four material issues to realize a sustainable society
                                              the sumitomo forestry group, aspiring to the realization of a sustainable
                                              society, set forth four material issues in 2007. since that time, the group
                                              has advanced specific initiatives in each of the four areas.

                                              sustainable procurement of timber is one area. illegal logging in natural
                                              forests is an international problem. sumitomo forestry confirmed that
                                              absolutely no illegally logged timber is contained in the directly imported
                                              timber and timber products it handles, having completed compliance
                                              investigations of all its overseas suppliers of such products in fiscal 2009.
                                              we will expand use of timber and timber products made of wood
                                              harvested from sustainably managed forests and focus on plantation
                                              forestry to preserve natural forests and contribute to the revitalization of
                 aki ra ichi kawa
                                              lost forests.
      president and representative director

                                              another area is the provision of environmentally friendly homes. the need
for excellent long-term housing—high-quality homes that can be passed down through generations—continues to rise.
we will continue to create new ways to provide environmentally sound housing using a wide range of approaches,
including the ryouonbou design concept that uses the power of nature to enable lifestyles not dependent upon heating
and cooling equipment, landscaping that promotes biodiversity, and expansion of the renovation business.

the third area is the prevention of global warming. in fiscal 2009, we launched the carbon offset initiative for all
custom-built and spec homes, in which the co2 released by the timber used in principal structural members during its
lifetime, from harvesting to construction is absorbed by plantation forests created on degraded forests in indonesia. the
full absorption of the co2 released by the timber used in these houses requires a ten-year commitment to management
and cultivation, a commitment we have made and continue to honor. in addition, the group set new targets to achieve by
2014, having revised the shared targets for reduction of co2 emissions across the group.

the fourth area is promoting diversity in the workforce. we will not be able to implement the commitments discussed
above, nor contribute to society and the global environment, without the dedicated efforts of healthy and happy
employees. we are committed to empowering employees to achieve work-life balance, and to the creation of a
workplace environment in which people from diverse backgrounds, regardless of age, country of citizenship, home
environment, etc., can work energetically together in harmony, and take pride and have confidence in their work. we are
focusing particularly on expanding opportunities for women in the workplace. we firmly believe this will lead to greater
global competitiveness, enhance the vitality of the workforce, and create a new sense of values for all employees.


 four material issues
      providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests
      providing environmentally friendly homes
      promoting global warming countermeasures through our business
      promoting family-centered employee lifestyles




                                                            7

       guided by the sumitomo spirit, leading the way to the society of the future
at the heart of our businesses is the sumitomo spirit, which tells us to “put weight on fairness and trust, and pursue
business so as to benefit society” — principles that have guided the company since its founding. we believe that living
up to the sumitomo spirit—conducting our businesses in harmony with the global environment and society—has enabled
the company to continue to prosper.

in line with the globalization of our businesses, we signed the united nations global compact in 2008. the sumitomo
spirit will continue to guide us as we endeavor to fully embrace and implement the vision of the global compact, fulfilling
our responsibilities and obligations to society as a globally expanding company.

looking ahead 50 and 100 years from now, we will continue to propose new concepts for housing, lifestyles, and society
from a long-term perspective. in this way, we aspire to be a leader in the creation of a sustainable society.

this report introduces some of our company's activities in pursuit of that goal. we hope you will read this report and
share your opinions with us.




                                                             8

    forestry & environment division

                                expanding sustainable forests under management and
                                environmental businesses
                          sumitomo forestry acquired 1,107 hectares of forests in wakayama prefecture and hokkaido in
                          fiscal 2009, bringing the total land area of company-owned forests in japan to 42,642
                          hectares, under the plan to increase forests under management. expanding and managing
                          forests in a sustainable manner is linked to contributing to the public good, including absorption
                          of co2. monitoring surveys of biodiversity, which began in fiscal 2008, were conducted in
         director,
   managing executive     company-owned forests in kyushu in fiscal 2009. further, sumitomo forestry joined with
         officer,         regional forest offices, which manage national forests in shikoku, kyushu, and wakayama, and
   divisional manager,    private-sector owners of large areas of forests, to build new work roads, etc., to facilitate
        forestry &
                          efficient forest maintenance. sumitomo forestry also became the first private-sector company
  environment division
  shi gehi ko shi ozaki   to sell co2 offset credits, having acquired credits for co2 absorbed by company-owned forests
                          under the ministry of the environment's j-ver system. we believe this system will provide new
                          sources of revenue for japan's forestry industry, contributing to the revitalization of the multi-
                          faceted functions of the nation's forests, as well as forest maintenance.

in order to accelerate the development of a wide range of environmental businesses, we established the environmental
business department in april 2010. this department will oversee and support the group's environmental businesses in
japan and overseas, while also aiming to create environmental businesses in new areas. the department will develop
environmental solutions businesses matched to resources and the environment, based on the company's unique
expertise and knowledge in wood and forests.

environmental issues facing the world today include global warming and preservation of biodiversity, which share a deep
interrelationship centered around forests. as a company involved with forests, we must contribute to solving these
problems in all respects, and continue to lead the industry.

                                   1. expansion of forests under management
                                   2. promotion of j-ver credits acquisition
     fiscal 2010 plans
                                   3. promotion of manufacturing and sales of pellets made from unused wood material biomass
                                   4. promotion of the company's unique forestry businesses integrated with csr activities



         business overview

   under the philosophy of sustainable forestry, an endless cycle of planting and harvesting forests, we will continue
   our core business of providing a stable supply of timber through the creation of forests. we will also continue to
   develop environmental businesses, including plantation forestry overseas and utilization of unused domestic
   wood materials.

                                                        stakeholder expectations
                                                     proactively use domestic timber, revitalize the forestry
                                                     industry
                                                     advance global warming countermeasures through business
                                                     activities
                                                     protect the world's forests through timber procurement




                                                                  9

    timber & building materials division

                                 initiatives to reduce co 2 emissions in the distribution of
                                 housing building materials
                         under the action plan stipulated by the timber procurement philosophy and policy, we have
                         implemented initiatives aimed at sustainable procurement of timber. to ensure we do not handle
                         any timber from illegal logging, we confirmed in fiscal 2009 the legality of all directly imported
                         timber and timber products handled by the group through compliance investigations of all
                         overseas suppliers of such products. further, our efforts to promote timber procurement from
      representative
         director,       sustainable forests were advanced through such activities as the start of sales in november
     senior managing     2009 of kikorin-plywood, an environmentally sound plywood product containing 50% or
    executive officer,   more raw materials made from timber from certified or plantation forests. we will continue to
     general manager,
                         focus on expanding the use of timber and wood materials procured from certified, plantation, or
    timber & building
    materials division   domestic forests.
  hi dey uki kamiy ama
                         the building materials department further expanded its lineup of environmentally sound
                         products, including solar power generation systems and high-efficiency hot water supply
                         systems. in fiscal 2010, we will provide consumers with the latest information related to the
                         environment, strengthen our information-handling capabilities as a trading company, and expand
                         the range of environmentally sound products including building materials and home equipment.

home eco-logistics co., ltd., established in april 2010 as a distribution system operations management company, is
engaged in initiatives to reduce co2 emissions in the distribution of housing building materials. this company will offer
the entire industry access to an integrated distribution system based on the company's national network of distribution
centers used in its housing business, aiming to contribute to society through the promotion of environmental symbiosis,
peaceful coexistence for mutual benefit, and contribution to local communities. using the distribution centers, products
from multiple manufacturers can be distributed more efficiently to construction sites, reducing the total number of trips
required to deliver materials, with the result of rationalizing distribution and lowering costs of housing building materials,
as well as realizing environmental benefits such as reduction of co2 emissions.

                                   1. promote the use of timber from certified, plantation, and domestic forests in order to further
                                      expand procurement from sustainable forest resources.
     fiscal 2010 plans             2. promote use of environmentally friendly building materials and housing equipment.
                                   3. promote transmission and sharing of environment-related information to partners.
                                   4. reduce co2 emissions through distribution systems management operations.




         business overview

   global procurement and sales of wood materials and distribution of building materials. sumitomo forestry is
   japan's leading trading company for timber and building materials measured by turnover.

                                                        stakeholder expectations

                                                     supply wood products and materials from sustainable
                                                     forests
                                                     proactively use domestic timber and revitalize the forestry
                                                     industry
                                                     protect the world's forests through intelligent timber
                                                     procurement




                                                                10

    overseas business division

                               expanding plantation forestry operations overseas
                         the overseas business division is conducting plantation activities in indonesia, papua new
                         guinea, and new zealand, aiming to expand plantation forestry overseas. we have launched
                         “social forestry” in indonesia through our local affiliates, kti and rpi, by providing seedlings
                         free-of-charge to local residents and buying back the trees they raise, thus contributing to the
                         improvement of their lifestyles. further, we launched plantation operations on degraded forests
                         on the island of kalimantan in fiscal 2009. this project has three phases and will ultimately
     representative      expand to 280,000 hectares. the plantation operation uses leading-edge technologies including
         director,
                         satellite intelligence and leverages the company's expertise to support job creation in the local
    senior managing
   executive officer,    community while remaining environmentally sound. in papua new guinea, the open bay timber
   divisional manager,   co., ltd. (obt) has received authorization from the government to plant an additional 8,000
   overseas business     hectares of plantation forests, bringing the total plantation forests under management to
         division
                         20,000 hectares from 12,000 hectares previously. obt received fsc controlled wood
     mamoru inoue
                         certification in fiscal 2008 and has begun preparation for fsc forest management certification.

in fiscal 2009, the decision was made to launch a particleboard manufacturing operation in vietnam that uses plantation
timber and waste wood from fruit trees as the raw materials. construction of the facility is underway. energy needed by
the plant will be generated by a wood biomass power generation facility that uses waste wood as fuel, allowing the
operation to be managed in an environmentally sound manner.

in fiscal 2009, we also acquired a 50% interest in henley properties group, one of australia's leading builders of
environmentally sound and energy-efficient homes. as a result, we are currently constructing environmentally sound
homes in australia, in addition to north america.

                                  1. implement plantation operations in indonesia and papua new guinea
                                  2. promotion of social contribution activities for local residents (plantation operations, free-of-
     fiscal 2010 plans               charge distribution of seedlings to local residents)
                                  3. start construction of particleboard manufacturing facility in vietnam
                                  4. promotion of construction of environmentally sound housing




         business overview

   manufacturing, processing, and distribution of wood boards and building materials, primarily in the pacific rim.
   engaged in plantation forestry to secure sustainable supplies of raw materials in each region. sales of wood
   construction homes in north america, australia, south korea, and china.

                                                        stakeholder expectations

                                                     supply wood products and materials from sustainable
                                                     forests
                                                     supply wood products that are safe and secure




                                                                11

    housing division

                               strengthen development of environmentally sound products
                               and achieve even greater reduction of environmental
                               impact
                         the excellent long-term housing promotion act was promulgated in june 2009 with the
                         objective of securing the formation of high-quality housing stock. all of the standard
                         specifications of sumitomo forestry's housing products meet the qualifications for excellent
         director,       long-term housing and the company aims to ensure that all the homes it builds can be certified.
   managing executive
         officer,        we have created an owners support group to maintain the asset value of our customers' homes
   divisional manager,   after they have occupied them. this allows us to fulfill the diverse needs of our customers,
    housing division
                         including the provision of counsel regarding appropriate maintenance and renovation.
    hi toshi hay ano

                         we also began offsetting co2 emitted by principal structural members from harvesting timber
                         to construction of housing through plantation forests in indonesia.

in fiscal 2010, we will launch the new solabo line of products that help reduce energy costs using such technologies as
solar power generation and home-use fuel cells. this product may be used as is with the ryouonbou design that is a
hallmark of the sumitomo ringyo no ie (sumitomo forestry home) houses brand, making use of natural energy from the
wind, sun, and greenery, and greatly improving its contribution to the environment and household budgets. going
forward, we will continue efforts to reduce environmental impact over the life cycle of a home, and provide homes that
exist in harmony with the environment—the kind of homes people expect from sumitomo forestry.

                                  1. strengthen development of environmentally sound products
     fiscal 2010 plans            2. strengthen environmental landscaping operations
                                  3. expand renovation operations




         business overview

   as the top brand in wood construction custom-built detached homes, we provide houses and wood multi-unit
   residences that are symbiotic with the environment.

                                                      stakeholder expectations

                                                   provide homes that can be treasured from generation to
                                                   generation
                                                   provide environmentally friendly housing
                                                   pass on technological expertise in wood construction and
                                                   forest management to the next generation




                                                             12

    real estate business division

                                     promoting environmentally friendly community
                                     development that respects “connections between people
                                     and nature”
                             in fiscal 2009, we redoubled our continuing efforts to promote the development of
                             environmentally sound communities. when building spec housing, we endeavor to create
                             communities that contribute even in a small way to reduction of external temperatures through
   managing executive        exterior designs that make abundant use of greenery. in addition to using high-efficiency hot
          officer,           water supply systems, we have also implemented offsets for co2 generated during the
    divisional manager,
                             construction of all housing, from the harvesting of the wood used in principal structural
   real estate business
          division           members to the actual construction activities. we employ spec condominium designs that make
      hi deo watabe          one feel the “connections between people and nature” through, for example, the planting of
                             trees for each of the four seasons even along the roadsides. we conduct thorough soil
                             contamination surveys when acquiring land, ensuring the safety of sub-divided land.

to promote the development of communities in which everyone from children to elders can live securely, we opened
grand forest hikawadai, a private-pay elderly care facility in tokyo's nerima ward in fiscal 2009, leveraging the
company's accumulated expertise and knowledge of elderly care facility construction and management. grand forest
hikawadai is managed by fill care co., ltd., a group company. in fiscal 2010, facilities in kobe's rokkomichi and toshima
ward's shiinamachi areas are scheduled to open.

the company has participated in pfi1 operations since fiscal 2007, aiming to leverage our expertise to build social
infrastructure. in august 2010, construction began on the new nagoya port authority building, which was developed on
the site of the former grounds of the old nagoya port authority.

1 private finance initiative: a method of using private-sector capital, expertise, and technology to construct, maintain, and operate public
 facilities.


                                        1. promote creation of environmentally sound communities
      fiscal 2010 plans
                                        2. promote creation of communities for everyone from children to elders




           business overview

    effective use of real estate, community development (spec housing), real estate brokerage and intermediation,
    property management, etc. real estate development including spec condominiums, commercial properties, and
    residential care facilities.

                                                              stakeholder expectations

                                                           lead the creation of communities that people can love and
                                                           take pride in
                                                           contribute to coexistence with and economic development
                                                           of local communities




                                                                      13

   head office departments

                                   creating a safe and comfortable workplace for employees
                           the roundtable discussion for parents was held in fiscal 2009, continuing on from the previous
                           fiscal year. the number of male employees taking childcare leave continues to increase and we
                           continue to be committed to the creation of a workplace environment that is supportive of
                           child-rearing, where all employees, regardless of gender, feel free to use the childcare leave
                           system. to promote work-life balance, we published a handbook on the subject to communicate
                           this way of thinking to each and every employee. in fiscal 2010, we will endeavor to further
          director,        improve work-life balance for a diversity of employees and establish the action committee
   managing executive
                           (second phase) to reduce long working hours, aiming to realize the meaningful use of time.
          officer,
     (responsible for
   corporate planning,
                           to promote the employment of people with disabilities, a team to promote the establishment of
          general          a workplace for people with disabilities was established at corporate headquarters. the team
      administration,      studied job responsibilities matched to the characteristics of each type of disability, as well as
      environmental        types of employment. going forward, training to create a comfortable working environment for
       management,
                           people with disabilities is planned. initiatives to secure the lives and safety of employees in the
         corporate
     communications,       event of a disaster include the scheduled deployment of a group-wide system to confirm the
   personnel, finance,     safety of each and every employee.
  information systems,
    and internal audit)  the corporate communications department was established within the corporate headquarters
     shi geru sasabe     and we endeavored to realize the effective dissemination of information about the group as a
                         whole, as well as to ensure smooth communications through the unification of the point-
of-contact for all stakeholders.

new co2 reduction targets through fiscal 2014 were set in the medium-term environmental management plan in
december 2009. going forward, we will monitor the government setting of targets for greenhouse gases as well as the
status of international deliberations, and continue to examine the setting of long-term targets.

                                         1. introduction of group-wide system for confirming employee safety in the event of a disaster
     fiscal 2010 plans                   2. establishment of action committee (2nd phase) to reduce long working hours
                                         3. implement training for employees with disabilities




                                                              stakeholder expectations

                                                           broad dissemination of wood culture and the appeal of wood
                                                           across society
                                                           creation of a corporate culture that is lively and where a
                                                           diversity of people can achieve their goals
                                                           pursuit of work styles that allow employees to treasure their
            kikorin plaza, a space for
            employee communication                         families




                                                                      14

       sumitomo forestry group's history and role
the history of sumitomo forestry dates back about 300 years. in japan's meiji era, sumitomo carried out a large-scale
reforestation plan to restore the mountain forests of besshi in the shikoku region after pollution from smelting and
mining operations damaged the area. planting as many as one million trees a year over several years, sumitomo
succeeded in returning the mountains back to their original lush conditions. the spirit behind this “preservation
forestry” allowed resources to be continually utilized in a pattern of logging followed by planting, and eventually led to
the concept of sustainable forestry. as a leading company in sustainability, sumitomo forestry is harnessing this spirit in
its current operations.

society has significantly changed in recent years as a result of global environmental problems and social issues that have
emerged. as a corporate group that conducts forest management and provides timber and homes, sumitomo forestry
group believes that it can play a significant role in resolving these problems.

                      i am impressed that sumitomo forestry has been practicing sustainability for as long as 300 years! i expect it to
                      take even stronger leadership in restoring the environment back to health. (business partner)




       csr management approach
the sumitomo forestry group's corporate philosophy advocates utilizing timber as a renewable, healthy, and
environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributing to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related
services. in order to realize this philosophy and to develop corporate integrity deserving of the trust of society, it is
imperative to achieve a balance among the three csr aspects of economic, social contribution, and environmental
activities. in this context, so that each and every employee can consider the significance of their own tasks, behavior,
and interaction with society from a csr perspective, as well as respond to the expectations of society, we have
formulated a statement entitled “our work and csr.” as a point of reference for group employees in considering what
should be held most important in relation to their actions, we formulated the statement, “our values and ideals.”




                                                                 15

        corporate philosophy

the sumitomo forestry group utilizes timber as a renewable, healthy, and environmentally friendly natural
resource, and contributes to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services.

action guidelines
sumitomo spirit             we conduct business that is beneficial to society based on the principles of integrity
                            and sound management.


respect for humanity        we work to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity.



environmental               we are dedicated to effectively addressing environmental issues with the aim of
responsibility              achieving a sustainable society.


putting customers           we are thoroughly committed to customer satisfaction through the provision of
first                       high-quality products and services.




        our work and csr

by utilizing sumitomo forestry's unique timber and housing expertise, we intend to create “cycles of
happiness,”based on the keywords of “utilization,” “development,” and “bringing together,” that will lead
to the individual development of employees, customers, local communities and the earth's environment.

joy in utilizing sustainable resources
1. utilize timber
    make available an appropriate and stable supply of sustainable forest resources while placing importance on
    biodiversity in order to generate new value that will benefit society.

2. utilize the forests
    as a business leader instigating growth in the forestry industry, establish a sound model for both preserving
    and utilizing our forests.

3. utilize traditions
    learn from japanese culture and traditional wisdom and hand down methods for living in harmony with
    nature to future generations.

joy in development
1. nurture families
    encourage lifestyles that above all foster happiness for the families of customers, families of employees—all
    families.

2. develop homes
    pursue development of houses that offer comfortable living and high asset value and which will be enjoyed
    for generations to come. contribute also to the happy lifestyles of people at various stages in their lives.

3. foster communities
    foster local communities, taking the lead in the development of towns of which residents will grow fond and
    proud.




                                                         16

joy in bringing people together
1. bring employees together
    pool together the ideas and ambitions of employees to build a dynamic corporate culture that thrives with
    diverse personalities, and foster human assets that will contribute to the betterment of society.

2. bring society together
    carry out spirited communication with people in society and willingly assimilate their ideas to be able to offer
    society what it really needs.

3. bring the world together
    build up our own recycling-oriented business, which will bring joy to people and the earth, and take a leading
    role in the formation of a sustainable society.




      our values and ideals

1. inspire emotion
great ideas are born when employees enjoy their work. bringing together diverse individuals will generate a new
power. just as each individual tree makes an abundant forest, bringing together our individual strengths allows us
to perform our work in a way that will inspire our customers.

1. customer satisfaction           2. partnership         3. independence and support         4. freedom and vigor

5. reflection and learning


2. blaze a trail to the future
we honor the traditions passed down by all who came before us. work that leads to the happiness of our
children, grandchildren and future generations is a wonderful thing. we will blaze a new trail to the future with this
pride leading the way. we will do our utmost in the interest of a sustainable society and the global environment.

1. sustainable development            2. respect for families          3. accumulation and creation

4. giving back to the community             5. environmental responsibility


3. act with dignity
we approach our work every day with pride and integrity. our work gives us something to be proud of as citizens
of the broader society. the trust that we have earned from society forms the basis of our work. we will behave
with dignity, allowing sumitomo’s business spirit to guide all of our actions.

1. passing on sumitomo's business spirit             2. legal compliance         3. information handling

4. respect for human rights and diversity              5. autonomous actions



our work and csr(http://sfc.jp/english/information/csr_rinen/)


our values and ideals(http://sfc.jp/english/information/taikei/taisetsu.html)


environmental philosophy and policies(http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo_rinen/)




                                                                 17

       sumitomo forestry stakeholders
sumitomo forestry's business is founded on its relations with customers and its employees, business partners, local
communities, and other stakeholders. the company adopts a wide range of perspectives in its communications with
stakeholders while striving to carry out business activities that meet the expectations of society.




                        i hope sumitomo forestry will seek a better path for the environment and society as a whole through dialogue
                        with environmentally conscious companies and consumers. (customer)




       csr management based on four material issues
as part of its efforts to realize a sustainable society, in fiscal 2007 sumitomo forestry determined four material issues
to be given priority in its initiatives. the company selected these issues after consulting with stakeholders to identify
areas in which it is expected to play a major role.

currently, sumitomo forestry gives priority to these four material issues in its programs and initiatives, and will continue
to assimilate stakeholders' views as it pursues csr management with the aim of creating a sustainable society.

   process for formulating the four material issues(p.19)




                                                                  18

there are many social issues that need to be resolved in order to create a sustainable society. what are the issues which
sumitomo forestry should focus on and work to help solve?
sumitomo forestry has determined four material issues to focus on, taking up issues that are particularly relevant to our
company. in determining these issues, we believed that it was important not only to focus on items that we find
important, but that it was also essential to consider the expectations that society has for us as a company. for this
reason, we sought to gather the opinions of our stakeholders.


    four material issues

            providing timber products and
                                                                         providing environmentally friendly
            materials from sustainable
                                                                         homes(p.34)
            forests(p.21)


            promoting global warming
                                                                         promoting family-centered
            countermeasures through our
                                                                         employee lifestyles(p.50)
            business(p.43)




    formulating the material issues


        selection of candidate material issues
   based on discussions with specialist third parties, responses to previous environmental and social reports, and
   opinions received through employee workshops, a total of 27 issues that sumitomo forestry should be working
   on were identified.




        understanding the issues that are important to our stakeholders
   a total of 143 questionnaires on the 27 candidate issues were completed by customers, business partners,
   analysts, investors, members of the press, employees, and relevant experts, allowing us to rank the various
   expectations held by stakeholders towards sumitomo forestry.




                                                           19

     consideration of importance from the perspective of business strategy
priority levels in the context of sumitomo forestry's business activities were clarified based on management
level discussions.




     determination of material issues
sumitomo forestry executive management determined the four material
issues by selecting the three issues which had scored most highly in the
stakeholder survey, and then adding an item which employees felt
strongly about.


    four material issues

  providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests
（1）
  providing environmentally friendly homes
（2）
  promoting global warming countermeasures through our business
（3）
  promoting family-centered employee lifestyles
（4）




                                                        20

        kikorin-plywood : giving birth to a sustainable cycle of timber resources

one of the few forested nations in the world, indonesia is an important supply base for the raw materials used in
sumitomo forestry's products. illegal and excessive logging and huge forest fires, however, have caused a rapid decline
of once abundant natural forests, and it is said that indonesia is leaning in the direction of regulation of the use of natural
forests by the timber industry.

sumitomo forestry set forth its timber procurement philosophy and policy
in 2007 with the goal of preserving forests in japan and the world through
the use of sustainable timber resources. in order to continue production
operations in indonesia without reducing the natural forests, the company
began switching over to use of timber from forests certified as being
managed in a sustainable manner (known as certified timber), and timber
from plantation forests, for the products we manufacture. in 2008,
sumitomo forestry set the goal of increasing the share of this kind of
sustainable timber to 50% of all imported plywood products by 2011. to
facilitate the use of certified timber, the company acquired coc
certification1 from fsc2 and pefc3 and has been proactively promoting
distribution of certified timber.

aiming to further these efforts, in november 2009 the company launched a new environmentally sound plywood named
kikorin-plywood. this revolutionary product offers not only high quality as plywood, but also a comprehensive
approach to environmental sensitivity. more than 50% of the timber used to manufacture kikorin-plywood comes
from forests certified by fsc or pefc, as well as from plantation forests that are sustainably managed. in japan, where
environmental consciousness is budding, we believe sumitomo forestry must assume leadership, introduce new
environmentally sound products, and further increase environmental consciousness across the market.



         kikorin-plywood : what is it?

      kikorin-plywood is plywood containing at least 50% timber
      harvested from forests certified by fsc or pefc, or from
      plantation forests in indonesia and other countries.




                                                              21

plantation timber presented a number of challenges because of its different nature than lauan timber, which was used
previously. compared with lauan, plantation timber has a lower specific gravity and also a smaller diameter, making it
difficult to process using conventional manufacturing facilities. plantation timber is also prone to warping due to higher
moisture content. the production of high-quality plywood became commercially viable as a result of extensive research
and development, as well as trial and error.

pt. kutai timber indonesia (kti)(http://www.kti.co.id/), a sumitomo forestry group company, works in cooperation
with local residents to cultivate plantation timber, including falcata (albizia falcataria) using the social forestry4 method,
which contributes to the improvement of the lifestyles of local residents. kti provides seedlings free of charge to local
residents, who then plant them on their farmland or gardens. this enables a stable supply of plantation timber even on
java island, where it is difficult to secure large areas of land for plantation forestry. this secure supply makes it possible
to clearly identify the percentage of kikorin-plywood 's content that comes from environmentally sound timber.

we believe that this environmentally sound plywood was made possible through the trust we've built over many years by
treasuring relationships with our suppliers and customers, and by operating in ways that serve the people of local
communities.

to maintain high quality, sumitomo forestry's local representatives and
technology instructors conduct exhaustive quality control and production
management during the manufacturing process at kti and all group-
affiliated facilities.

kikorin-plywood, which is made from environmentally sound raw
materials, is shipped with the mark of kikorin quality printed on the side.
this marking indicates the product possesses kikorin quality, the level of
quality for which the sumitomo forestry group takes responsibility.




                                                     a portion of the revenues from kikorin-plywood is invested in plantation
                                                     forestry operations. in this fiscal year, investments were made in
                                                     plantation forestry operations in indonesia, where sumitomo forestry is
                                                     endeavoring to revitalize degraded forests and bring back the forests.
                                                     when our customers buy kikorin-plywood, they are indirectly
                                                     contributing to the protection and revitalization of forests, and the
                                                     preservation of biodiversity.




realizing the company's philosophy of timber procurement from sustainable forests would not be possible without the
cooperation of our customers, suppliers, and partners. sumitomo forestry will expand distribution of kikorin-plywood,
enhancing the understanding and enthusiastic adoption of a product that embodies our philosophy, thus contributing to
the creation of a cycle of sustainable use of timber resources.

1 certifies the organization appropriately separates and marks forest products from certified forests during the storage, processing, and
  distribution processes.
2 the forest stewardship council is a third-party organization that provides a global forest certification system. its forest management
  (fm) certification authenticates forest management, while fsc chain of custody (coc) certification confirms that forest products from
  certified forests are appropriately separated and marked in the storage, processing and distribution processes.
3 the programme for the endorsement of forest certification (pefc) is a forest certification program that promotes sustainable forest
  management by offering certification from third parties independent of stakeholders.
4 social forestry supports the economic independence of local residents by distributing profits gained from forestry management involving
  the local people.




                                                                    22

     comments from the development manager
kikorin-plywood is a product that represents our efforts to realize the
company's timber procurement philosophy. by expanding the handling of
such products, i believe we can increase environmental consciousness in the
timber industry and lead the entire industry in the direction of sustainability.
i believe we have a duty to do so as a company whose businesses are
centered on wood, the irreplaceable natural resource.




                                                       comments from customers
                                                the launch of an environmentally sound plywood product like kikorin-
                                                plywood is a tremendously good thing. even an “environmentally
                                                sound” product, however, doesn't make sense if the quality is poor.
                                                kikorin-plywood meets our standards for quality and delivery. while
                                                some homebuilders are working to use, and some building materials
                                                manufacturers to develop and manufacture, environmentally sound
                                                building materials, efforts to switch over to building materials made of
                                                raw materials from certified and plantation forests are still not
                                                adequate in the housing and building materials distribution industries
                                                overall. also, people who buy houses are still basically unaware. i would
                                                like to see sumitomo forestry pursue top-quality products and stable
                                                supply, and at the same time, promote environmentally sound
                                                products like this, heightening environmental consciousness
                                                throughout society.




                                                              23

         fiscal 2009 targets

                                          unit                                                                  fy 2009 targets

 sumi tomo forestry group (group-wide) 1                                                confirm legal compliance of all timber handled

 b ui ldi ng mate ri al s de part me nt of the ti mber and bui l di ng materi als       handle only legally imported solid wood building
 di vi si on                                                                            materials

1 excludes some products handled by the building materials department




         fiscal 2009 results


               major performance data

                                                                         2007         2008          2009

      percentage of timber suppliers certified as legally compliant       71.4%        93.3%         100%

      overseas plantation land area1                                    3,077 ha     3,312 ha     4,313 ha

                                                                         40,567       41,532        42,642
      company-owned forests in japan, land area
                                                                                ha           ha            ha

    1 land area under plantation forestry management for each fiscal year




                                             sustainable timber procurement

     revised action plans based on timber procurement philosophy and policy
    the sumitomo forestry group set forth its timber procurement philosophy and policy in fiscal 2007 and has been
    steadfastly executing the action plan for promoting procurement of sustainable timber. in fiscal 2009, having
    achieved targets broadly (with the exception of those items whose target completion was scheduled for fiscal
    2010), the new action plan setting targets for fiscal 2010 and beyond was promulgated. expanding the use of
    timber from certified, plantation, and domestic forests, and continuing to ensure 100% legal compliance of timber
    and timber products imported directly are two areas of priority focus for the group as a whole.




                                                                         24

      sumitomo forestry: protecting the world's forests, handling
                   environmentally friendly timber.
           what are sumitomo forestry's priority initiatives?


    expanding environmentally friendly timber around the world

trees are one of the few truly renewable resources on the
planet. natural forests are being lost, however, to illegal
logging, over-harvesting, and forest fires.
in order to continue using tree resources, shifting to the
use of timber from appropriately managed natural forests
or from plantation forests with an established cycle of
“plantation - cultivation - harvest - plantation” is
essential.
thus, sumitomo forestry is expanding the use of timber
from certified, plantation, and domestic forests,
contributing to the sustainable use of forest resources
and to the protection of the global environment.



      timber from certified forests

timber from certified forests refers to timber harvested
from forests certified to be properly managed by an
independent non-profit, non-governmental body that
conducts investigations of forest management and
forestry operations. timber from certified forests is
certified to be not only legally compliant and from
sustainable resources but also for the consideration given
to the environment, including biodiversity, and the local
community.




   expanding the handling of timber from certified forests(p.30)




      timber from plantation forests

sumitomo forestry defines timber from plantation
forests as timber harvested from forests that have
established a cycle of planting, cultivating, and
harvesting trees, then starting the cycle over again with
planting of more trees. the use of timber harvested from
properly managed forests can be said to enable the use
of trees without any permanent depletion of resources.




   expanding forestry plantation land overseas(p.31)




                                                        25

      timber from forests in japan

sumitomo forestry handles timber from forests in japan that have been properly managed.
large-scale reforestation was conducted in post-war japan but because japanese timber was not
competitive in many respects with imported timber, it was not used and, the forests came to be
neglected.

the proactive use of japanese timber enables the cycle of harvesting, reforestation, and maintenance
such as thinning, leading to the revitalization of forests and preservation of national lands. moreover,
use of japanese timber contributes to the prevention of global warming through absorption of co2.

   promoting joint operations for efficient forest management(p.32)


   conservation and sustainable use of japanese timber resources(p.144)




    using only legally compliant imported timber and timber products,
    never illegally logged timber

illegal logging of trees is a serious problem because it
leads to destruction of forests, loss of natural resources,
and disruption of ecosystems.
sumitomo forestry never uses illegally logged timber, of
course, as a company that handles timber. timber is
imported from many countries, each with its own
distribution channels, making it difficult to investigate the
procurement process of each.




sumitomo forestry validates the traceability of all directly imported timber and timber products all the
way back to the location of the logging, ensuring its legal compliance.
protecting the world's forests from illegal logging is our duty and responsibility as a leading company
deeply involved with timber and timber products. we will continue to ensure that 100% of the directly
imported timber and timber products we handle is confirmed as legally compliant.




achieved 100% use of legally compliant timber and timber products(p.29)




                                                       26

 new action plan for timber procurement

  segment                 division                                           action plan・fy2012 target

                                               with the objective of contributing to the global environment, expand use and handling of
                                               timber from forests certified as legally compliant and sustainable (fsc, pefc, sgec); use
                                               and handle timber from sustainable plantation forests; use and handle timber from
group-wide                                     forests in japan to promote revitalization of the domestic forestry industry.

                                               do not use, handle or purchase illegally logged timber. continue handling 100% certified
                                               legally compliant directly imported timber and timber products.

action plan by division

                forestry department of         continue 100% certification of company-owned forests (sgec certification).
                forestry and
domestic
                environment division           preserve and protect biodiversity in company-owned forests.
forestry
domestic
                sumitomo forestry
distribution
                timberland management          promote handling of japanese timber / increase to 75% of volume used from fy2009.
                co., ltd.

                forest products trading
timber          department of the              promote use and handling of timber from certified forests (fsc, pefc, sgec) and
distribution    timber & building              plantation forests. increase to 70% of total volume handled (currently 64%).
                materials division

                sumitomo forestry
domestic        crest co., ltd. (incl.         promote use of timber from certified forests (fsc, pefc, sgec), plantation forests, and
manufacturing   former toyo plywood            japanese forests. increase to 50% of total volume used (currently 17%).
                co., ltd. plants)

                                               promote and expand use of timber produced in japan. continue 70% share of japanese
                                               timber used in principal structural members.
housing         housing division
                                               expand use of timber from certified forests (fsc, pefc, sgec) and double the volume
                                               used compared with fy2009.



     action plan progress report

                                                                                  goal
    segment          division                  action                                                   evaluation        progress
                                                                        fy               target

                                                                                finish confirming                    completed survey
                                     survey supply chain           2007         legality of timber          ○        of all direct
                                                                                from all suppliers                   suppliers

                                                                                                                     discussions
                                                                                formulate standards
                                                                                                                     complete but
                                     examine sustainability        2008         for sustainable             ×
 group-wide 1                                                                                                        standards were
                                                                                forests
                                                                                                                     not set

                                                                                                                     confirmed legality
                                                                                confirm legality of                  of all directly
                                     examine legality of timber    2009                                     ○
                                                                                all timber handled                   imported timber
                                                                                                                     handled




                                                                   27

                                                                      goal
  segment          division              action                                              evaluation        progress
                                                             fy               target

action plans by division

                                                                     use 2,000 m3/year
                                                                                                          fy2008: 3,659
                                                                     (log basis) of
                                                                                                          m3/year (log
                              promote forestry                       certified timber
                                                        2007                                     ○        basis) supplied
                              certification                          from
                                                                                                          sgec timber to
                                                                     company-owned
                                                                                                          housing division
                forestry                                             forests

                department
                                                                     maintain forestry                    activity
                                                                     certification of                     continues
domestic                      promote forestry                       company-owned                        (received
                                                        continuous                               ○
forestry                      certification (sgec)                   forests and pursue                   certification of
                                                                     continual                            new forests
domestic                                                             improvement                          acquired)
distribution
                                                                     acquire group
                              establish system for                   certification to                     acquired group
                sumitomo      confirming legality of    2007         establish systems           ○        certification in
                forestry      timber                                 for confirming legal                 august 2008
                timberland                                           compliance
                management
                co., ltd.                                            handle 1,000,000                     handled
                              promote handling of
                                                        2010         m3 of japanese          continues    700,000 m3 in
                              japanese timber
                                                                     timber annually                      fy2009

                                                                                                          completed
                                                                     finish survey of                     surveys of
                building      survey supply chain       2008         corporate initiatives       ○        primary suppliers
                materials                                            of all suppliers                     in fy2007 and
                department                                                                                fy2008
building
                of the
materials
                timber &                                                                                  confirmation of
distribution
                building                                                                                  legality of all
                              examine the legality of                handle only legal
                materials                                                                                 directly imported
                              imported solid wood       2009         imported solid wood         ○
                division                                                                                  solid wood
                              building materials                     building materials
                                                                                                          building materials
                                                                                                          completed

                                                                     use 8,000
                                                                     m3/month of                          used 9,475
                              promote use of japanese                japanese cedar for                   m3/month of
                                                        2007                                     ○
                              timber                                 plywood                              japanese cedar in
                sumitomo                                             (komatsushima                        fy2008
                forestry                                             plant)
                crest co.,
                ltd.                                                                                      acquired sgec
                                                                     acquire sgec
                                                                                                          separation and
                              promote forestry                       separation and
                                                        2007                                     ○        labeling
                              certification                          labeling
domestic                                                                                                  certification in
                                                                     certification
manufacturing                                                                                             december 2007

                                                                     develop and launch
                former toyo   promote use of japanese                                                     started sales of
                                                        2007         building materials          ○
                plywood       timber                                                                      totorop in 2007
                                                                     made of sakhalin fir
                co., ltd.
                (merged
                                                                                                          began in fy2007.
                with                                                 commence
                                                                                                          acquired sgec
                sumitomo                                             examination of sgec
                              promote forestry                                                            separation and
                forestry                                2007         separation and              ○
                              certification                                                               labeling
                crest in                                             labeling
                                                                                                          certification in
                april 2010)                                          certification
                                                                                                          march 2008




                                                        28

                                                                                  goal
     segment         division                  action                                                   evaluation        progress
                                                                         fy              target

                                                                                                                     began use of
                                                                                                                     sgec-certified
                                                                                 begin use of
                                    promote forestry                                                                 timber for
                                                                   2007          certified timber for       ○
                                    certification                                                                    detached homes
                                                                                 housing
                                                                                                                     of the sapporo
                                                                                                                     branch
                   housing
  housing
                   division                                                                                          achieved target
                                                                                                                     of 70% japanese
                                                                                 raise usage rate of
                                                                                                                     timber used in
                                    promote use of japanese                      japanese timber for
                                                                   2008                                     ○        principal
                                    timber                                       principal structural
                                                                                                                     structural
                                                                                 members to 70%
                                                                                                                     members in
                                                                                                                     fy2008

 1 excludes certain products handled by building materials department




achieved 100% use of legally compliant timber and timber products 1
illegal logging is linked to destruction of forests and is thus a significant social problem. to ensure no illegally
logged timber is handled, sumitomo forestry conducts investigations to confirm the legality of all overseas
suppliers of logs, timber, and wood products. as necessary, local representatives and responsible managers from
sumitomo forestry visit the forests and logging operations, seeking to increase the reliability of the investigations.
in fiscal 2009 and continuing from fiscal 2008, all 163 overseas suppliers were confirmed to be in compliance. for
the three years since fiscal 2007, the company's directly imported timber and timber products were confirmed to
be 100% legally compliant.
1 includes imported solid wood building materials

  sources of imported timber and timber products
  (based on figures provided to the japan lumber importers'
  association)




   procuring sustainable raw materials(p.87)              promoting the use of timber from sustainable forests(p.149)



                                as the industry leader, i hope you can correct the misperception that selling timber equals destruction
                                of the environment. (business partner)
                                i hope to see integrated activities, from plantation forestry to use of waste material to eco-education
                                (or eco-tourism). (research/education institution)




                                                                   29

setting sustainable forestry standards
in fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry began an examination to clarify the standards by which we define sustainable
forestry. in order to set the standards, discussions were held with not only relevant departments within the
company, but also with third parties such as non-governmental organizations (ngo) involved with the environment
and the forestry agency of japan. the standards set forth in the united nations conference on environment and
development's declaration of forest principles and the montreal process were also studied.

timber from plantation and certified forests is generally considered to be from “sustainable forests,” but the
natural regeneration of north american broadleaf trees can also be said to be sustainable. at the present time, it is
extremely difficult to set clear standards.

sumitomo forestry will continue to pursue sustainable procurement of timber with the initial target of expanding
our use of timber from compliance-certified plantation forests and certified forests.



maintaining forestry certification of company-owned forests and continuous
improvement
sumitomo forestry's company-owned forests located in hokkaido, shikoku, kyushu and wakayama cover a total
area of 42,642 hectares (about 1/900 of japan's land area). these forests are managed in an environmentally
sound and sustainable manner.

sumitomo forestry-owned forests acquired certification from japan's sustainable green ecosystem council
(sgec1) in september 2006, meaning that a third party has verified that the forests are properly managed. in
fiscal 2009, the forests were inspected for the third time since earning forestry certification, and it was
determined that sumitomo forestry has taken appropriate measures to preserve biodiversity, among other issues.
in addition, 973.5 hectares of forests acquired in kyushu and shikoku through april 2009 were also certified by the
sgec.

1 japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by third parties. certification
  is based on seven standards that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water
  resources.



    preserving of biodiversity(p.151)          management of company-owned forests(p.144)




expanding the handling of timber from certified forests
to promote distribution of timber from certified forests, the forest product trading department and building
materials department of the timber & building materials division acquired coc certification from fsc1 in fiscal
2006 and coc certification from pefc2 in september 2008.

kti formed a reforestation cooperative with local farmers in december 2008 and acquired fsc-fm (forest
management) certification for 152 hectares of plantation forests. further, kti, with the agreement of the local
farmers, received an expanded examination on an additional 179 hectares of plantation forests at the same time
the previously certified plantation forests were re-examined for renewal of the certification in may 2010.




                                                                 30

  major forestry certifications

    type of forestry certification                                     name of certified division or company

         forestry certification            forestry department, forestry & environment division (company-owned forests)

         comprehensive separation          forest products trading department, timber & building materials division (pre-cut
 sgec    and labeling certification 3      materials), housing division (pre-cut materials)

         separation and labeling           sumitomo forestry timberland management co., ltd., daiichisansho co., ltd., and sumitomo
         certification                     forestry crest co., ltd.

         fm certification                  kti （reforestation cooperative）

 fsc                                       forest products trading department and building materials department, timber & building
         coc certification                 materials division; kowa lumber co., ltd.; alpine mdf industries pty. ltd.; pt. kutai timber
                                           indonesia; sumitomo forestry (singapore)

                                           forest products trading department and building materials department, timber & building
 pefc    coc certification
                                           materials division


1 the forest stewardship council is a third-party organization that provides a global forest certification system. its forest
  management (fm) certification authenticates forest management, while fsc chain of custody (coc) certification confirms that
  forest products from certified forests are appropriately separated and marked in the storage, processing and distribution
  processes.
2 the programme for the endorsement of forest certification (pefc) is a forest certification program that promotes sustainable
  forest management by offering certification from third parties independent of stakeholders.
3 a system for certifying appropriate separation and labeling by operators during storage, processing and distribution of timber from
  forests accredited by the sgec.




expanding forestry plantation land overseas
sumitomo forestry's group companies outside japan are increasing their use of plantation timber and promoting
plantation forestry operations to ensure stable supply of raw materials while protecting the environment. in fiscal
2009, the group planted 4,313 hectares.

in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry jointly launched a large-scale commercial forest plantation business in
cooperation with alas kusuma group, a company involved in the forestry and plywood manufacturing businesses
in indonesia. this operation contributes to not only preservation of biodiversity and reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions, but also contributes to the economic development of the local community by providing employment for
local residents in commercial forest plantation operations.

this initiative classified indonesia's lowland forests and peat-swamp forests, which have been degraded by illegal
logging and slash-and-burn farming, into three areas: (1) forests preservation zones, (2) buffer zones, and (3)
forestation zones. by further classifying plantation areas by environmental factors such as soil composition and
moisture content, the initiative is able to optimize forestation operations to local environmental conditions.
forestation program planning utilizes leading-edge satellite information technology acquired through joint research
with the japan aerospace exploration agency (jaxa)'s space open lab system.

the aim is to enable sustainable commercial plantation forestry that contributes to the preservation of biodiversity
through appropriate designation of forest preservation zones, mosaic planting wherein forestation is undertaken
only in designated areas suited for that purpose, and the aggressive introduction of indigenous species. an
experimental plantation was launched in october 2009, and full plantation operations will begin in 2010. the plan
calls for 40,000 hectares to start with, rising ultimately to 280,000 hectares.

  trees planted in fy 2009

       group company          reforested area

 kti (indonesia)                        1,979 ha

 rpi (indonesia)                        1,007 ha

 npil (new zealand)                      167 ha

 obt (papua new guinea)                 1,160 ha




                                                                      31

                                promoting the use of japanese timber

promoting joint operations for efficient forest management
to maximize the functionality of forests, proper maintenance of forests—clearing away of underbrush, pruning,
and thinning—is vital, but in japan, the large number of owners holding small parcels of land makes it difficult to do
so efficiently.

as a result, maintenance of forests and usage of domestic timber are delayed, diminishing the vitality of forests
and creating a significant problem. to break through this problem, increasing efficiency of forest maintenance
through joint operations between owners of forests in japan is necessary.

aiming for a revitalization of forestry in japan, sumitomo forestry signed an agreement to promote forest
maintenance between owners of national, private, and public forests and also began joint forest maintenance
operations with oji paper co., ltd. in fiscal 2009, the first joint operation of its kind in japan between two
corporations holding large-scale forest assets.


   effective use of company-owned forests through joint operations(p.145)




expanding use of domestic timber
sumitomo forestry timberland management co., ltd., which procures and sells domestic timber, is actively
promoting the use of japanese timber.

in order to increase demand for japanese timber, it is necessary to provide products with consistent quality, not
just quantity. in fiscal 2009, the company began selling japanese timber products using a company-developed
standard, the fs (forest service) grade. the other company-developed standard is mizdas®1, but fs grade was
specifically developed for widespread and popular adoption to promote the expanded sales of japanese timber
products on a national scale.

in addition, the company endeavored to utilize wood left over from logging, and to realize low-cost forestry by
transporting logs directly from intermediate bases in mountains and by scaling up of joint operations. going
forward, the company will focus on increasing sales of fs grade products, as well as through continued operations
such as these to advance sustainable forestry and forest management, thereby expanding the volume of japanese
timber handled.

1 a system that is incorporated into timber drying equipment to automatically control temperature and humidity via computer.




production of housing materials and furniture using japanese timber
sumitomo forestry developed and started sales of the monbetsu no mori line of furniture that makes effective use
of thinnings of broadleaf trees harvested from company-owned forests primarily in monbetsu, hokkaido.

the company is actively involved in the use of domestic timber in the houses it builds, and has increased to 70%
the ratio of domestic timber used in principal structural members. in addition to structural members, aiming to
proactively use domestic timber in furniture, the company launched the monbetsu no mori project with 11
member companies, which advances the development of furniture that leverages the best qualities of domestic
timber and the best qualities of wood.

thinnings, which are curved, and wood left over from logging are difficult to process into timber products and have
conventionally been used primarily as raw materials for pulp, or as fuel in the form of firewood—or disposed of
unused. the monbetsu no mori brand of interior furniture is the result of investigation into the effective use of
thinnings from broadleaf and other trees. the thinnings from broadleaf trees used as raw materials for the
monbetsu no mori brand come from sgec1-certified forests. going forward, the products will be marketed carrying
the sgec label.

by promoting the supply of thinned timber from broadleaf and other trees to companies that support and endorse
these types of projects, the company is encouraging the proactive use of domestic timber and supporting the
revitalization of domestic forests and protecting the environment, thus contributing to the achievement of the
government's goal of 50% self-sufficiency in timber.



                                                               32

1 japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by third parties. certification
  is based on seven standards that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water
  resources.




sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. began selling original deck hinoki
brand of wooden decks that use thinnings from japanese cypress in the
floorboards. japanese cypress is a conifer that possesses beautiful grain and
superior durability, and, as such, has traditionally been used in shrines and altars.
using the sumitomo forestry group's domestic network to procure thinnings
from japanese cypress, which has not been used very much until now, and the
group's proprietary technologies to effectively utilize it as a product, the
company promotes the use of domestic timber, and contributes to the healthy
development of domestic forests.




    promoting the use of japanese timber(p.146)



                         since many problems remain in domestic forest management such as lack of workers, i hope to see the
                         company proactively lead in use of japanese timber and preservation of mountains linked to local
                         communities. (white-collar employee)



increasing the share of japanese timber in principal structural members used in
housing
    increasing the share of domestic timber used(p.40)




   future plans

new action plan for timber procurement(p.27)




                                                                 33

                        sumitomo forestry: building homes, creating forests

sumitomo forestry effectively uses japan's forest resources to promote both vibrant forests and revitalized local
communities. about 70% of the principal structural members used in the homes sumitomo forestry builds come from
domestic timber, including super cypress laminated engineered wood for posts and foundations made from japanese
cypress, kizure panels for durable facings using thinned timber from japanese cedar and other trees, and other products.
as part of its efforts to utilize domestic timber, the company is also promoting the use of local timber in the
communities where the timber was harvested, including hokkaido, nagano, ehime, nara, and yamaguchi. in nagano
prefecture, for example, the majority of principal structural members used in houses built in nagano are made from
timber harvested locally, including shinshu japanese larch.




nagano prefecture possesses abundant timber resources as forests cover about 80% of the land area of the prefecture.
the area was planted with japanese larch, which thrives even in areas with little rainfall, in the post-war period and the
area is rich in natural resources. output of timber in the region has fallen to one-sixth of its peak 40 years ago, however,
due to prices remaining stagnant for decades, inadequate logging roads, and lack of forestry workers.


                                                            34

when there is no demand for mature trees, forests are neglected, and thinning and other required maintenance are
postponed. as a result, the forests deteriorate and lose the beneficial functions that serve the public good such as
preservation of national lands and cultivation of water resources, as well as losing the ability to absorb and store co2,
the cause of global warming.
sumitomo forestry contributes to revitalization of japan's forests and their multi-faceted benefits by proactively using
timber grown in nagano prefecture, stimulating interest in forestry among owners of forests, promoting proper
management, and repeating the cycle of harvesting mature trees, then replanting in plantation forests.

use of locally grown timber also serves to stimulate forestry and the economy of the area.

mr. koaizawa, secretary of the toshin timber center cooperative federation, the timber supply base for eastern nagano
prefecture, commented on the need to build infrastructure and the potential effects thereof, saying, “nagano
prefecture is proud to be number two in japan for the quantity of japanese larch stocks behind only hokkaido, but the
output of timber from nagano in fiscal 2008 was equivalent to only 0.3% of the total available. this shows that while
nagano prefecture possesses abundant timber resources, they are not being used effectively. if, hypothetically, that
number could be tripled to 1.0% of the total, the contribution to local employment and the economy would be
significant. i believe that, with construction of logging roads and installation of high-performance equipment, this number
is definitely achievable.”

mr. saito, president of saito wood industry co., ltd., a nagano-based manufacturer of principal structural members
made from shinshu japanese larch for use in sumitomo forestry home houses, commented on the stimulating effect of
increased logging on the local economy, saying, “if more homebuilders were to actively use locally grown timber,
demand for local timber would grow, resulting in more logs being harvested from the mountains. in turn, i would need to
quickly invest in plant and equipment at the factory and also hire more workers to handle the increased production
volumes.”

local customers often say they would like to use timber grown in local forests in the area they were born and raised in
the homes they plan to live in for rest of their lives. fulfilling the wishes of local residents who want to use trees grown in
the region contributes to local economic development through the cycle of harvesting, replanting, and managing healthy
plantation forests.

building homes begins with creating forests. sumitomo forestry building homes is linked to creating forests in japan.
sumitomo forestry, as a builder of 10,000 wood construction homes annually, continues the creation of healthy forests
in japan and supports the livelihood of the people involved with forests.



         comments from business partners

   to realize the government's target of 50% or higher self-sufficiency
   in timber in japan in ten years' time, as set forth in the plan to
   revitalize forests and forestry, it is necessary to create sales and
   distribution channels matched to upstream, midstream, and
   downstream industries through consolidation of forest management,
   and to aim for the creation of a steady flow of transactions less
   affected by swings in demand. from the perspective of one who is
   dealing with timber transactions every day, i believe it is necessary
   for companies like sumitomo forestry, who are fully integrated
   businesses from upstream to downstream, to take the initiative to
   drive results.

   further, i would like to see sumitomo forestry, as a leading
   homebuilder, appeal to the general public broadly and in an easy-to-
   understand manner about the importance of proactively using domestic timber and the necessity of creating
   systems to do so. that would have a significant impact going forward on the improvement of japan's
   self-sufficiency in timber.




                                                              35

                                                    since the promulgation of the kyoto protocol in 1997, concern over
                                                    global warming has risen every year. corporate efforts to reduce
                                                    greenhouse gases and the role of forests in absorbing co2 are at the
                                                    center of attention. i look to sumitomo forestry to make even
                                                    greater contributions toward the realization of a low-carbon,
                                                    recycling-centric, environmentally symbiotic society through the
                                                    construction of wooden houses that proactively use domestic
                                                    timber, including locally grown timber.




    current state of japan's forests
japan is a country blessed with abundant forest resources. forests cover approximately 70% of japan's land area.
and approximately 40% of those forests are artificial forests, planted and cultivated by man.1 the pressing problem
in japan today is the neglect and subsequent deterioration of these artificial forests.

to meet demand for timber during the post-war period, trees such as japanese cedar and japanese cypress, which
are well-suited for use as construction materials, were planted on mountains across japan. given the long time
required for the saplings to grow into mature trees that can be used in construction materials, however, it became
necessary to rely on imports to meet the demand for timber. imported timber could be ordered in large quantities at
cheap prices, resulting in a sudden spike in domestic consumption of timber. at the same time, however, domestic
trees ready for harvest were not price competitive and the domestic forestry became unprofitable. as a result,
owners of forests lost interest in forestry, and many of the plantation forests were neglected.

1 source: municipal governments, forests as % of land area / man-made forests as % of total (as of march 31, 2007)

    timber self-sufficiency in japan (%)2




2 source: “timber demand tables (construction materials),” forestry agency. supply volume of construction materials (timber used in
  processed wood products, plywood, pulp, chips) converted into log equivalents.




    role of forests
healthy forests serve the public good through accumulation of water resources and other benefits. not only do
forests provide wood resources, as the trees grow they also absorb and store co2, a cause of global warming, and
provide habitats for plants and animals.




                                                                 36

   reasons to use domestic timber
while extensive plantation forests were planted in post-war japan, japanese timber was not competitive against
imports for a variety of reasons. use of domestic timber declined, and japan's forests were neglected. lack of
maintenance led to deterioration of the forests, and slow growth of root systems that protect the soil, leading to
landslides during times of heavy precipitation. also, as trees mature their growth slows and co2 absorption via
photosynthesis decreases. proactive use of domestic timber promotes the cycle of harvesting, planting, and
maintenance that supports the development of healthy forests, contributing to revitalization of forests, protection of
national lands, and reduction of global warming.




                                                         37

   fiscal 2009 targets

   provide excellent long-term houses
   offset carbon released during house construction
   promote home renovation business
   continue appropriate disposal of waste from new housing construction




   fiscal 2009 results


     key performance indicators

                                                       2007        2008    2009

domestic timber as % of principal structural members     51％         70％     70％

number of native trees planted                          -           -      17,753




                                   life cycle assessment for housing

sumitomo forestry carries out life cycle assessments (lca) to
evaluate the environmental impact of a home throughout its life
cycle, from the procurement of raw materials to the house's
construction, occupancy and demolition. according to lca, a
home's environmental impact comes primarily from energy
consumption during occupancy, accounting for 70–80% of its total
energy consumption. this inspired sumitomo forestry to propose
the ryouonbou design concept, which cuts energy consumption
during occupancy, as well as solar power systems and solar hot
water systems, in order to lower a home's environmental impact.




   balance of input and outpu(p.126)




                                                              38

                                    excellent long-term housing

providing excellent long-term housing
compared to houses in european countries, which last an average of about 100 years, houses in japan typically
have a life span of only about 30 years, and consequently, continuous rebuilding has a serious environmental
impact.

sumitomo forestry believes that popularizing excellent long-term houses that become social assets is vital for
creating a prosperous society. as such, the company is promoting the following four policies to extend the life of
houses:

   make houses more reliable by improving their basic functions
   create comfortable living environments
   increase future options for layout to accommodate changes in lifestyles
   enhance maintenance programs to support long-term upkeep

the japanese government implemented the excellent
long-term housing promotion act in june 2009, issuing clear
guidelines emphasizing the importance of excellent houses and
their maintenance for long-term occupancy. building houses
certified as “excellent long-term houses” not only reduces
the costs incurred with repeated rebuilding, but also reduces
waste generation and environmental impact. in the long-term,
such houses foster more prosperous lives.




as part of these measures, the ministry of land, infrastructure, transport and tourism (mlit) is promoting its
ultra-long-life house leading model project. sumitomo forestry submitted its houses to the first model project
and succeeded in having three of its ultra-long-life models chosen for the project. in fiscal 2009, three sumitomo
forestry housing designs were selected as excellent long-term house leading model projects by the mlit,
continuing a trend started in fiscal 2008 when three designs were also selected as the first leading model projects.
the myforest-taiju, myforest-bf-si, and myforest-hokkaido (all excellent long-term housing model project 21
series) were recognized for basic functionality, proactive use of domestic timber, structural frameworks that
increase seismic resistance and improve durability, and extensive maintenance programs.




                                                        39

                reducing environmental impact of housing construction

carbon offsets for housing construction
sumitomo forestry uses plantations to absorb the co2 emitted over the lifetime of principal structural members,
from the harvesting of timber to the construction of housing. in order to offset the co2 emitted by all the
custom-built and spec homes we will sell in the five years beginning with fiscal 2009, we plan to plant
approximately 2,000,000 trees on 1,500 hectares of land in the five-year period, then manage and cultivate the
trees for another ten years. in fiscal 2009, we conducted environmental reforestation on 60 hectares of protected
forests in indonesia's bromo tengger semeru national park.


   promoting global warming countermeasures through our businesses(p.43)




increasing the share of domestic timber used
to promote the use of japanese timber and revitalize the japanese timber industry, sumitomo forestry has been
working to achieve its goal of raising the percentage of japanese timber used in principal structural members for
houses to about 70%. this goal was achieved in fiscal 2008.
advances are also being made in “local production for local consumption,” where timber is harvested and used
locally in areas such as hokkaido, nagano, and ehime.




   promoting the use of japanese timber(p.146)         providing environmentally friendly homes(p.34)




continue appropriate disposal of waste from new construction
sumitomo forestry is aiming to achieve “zero emissions” from construction of new homes. in fiscal 2009, 80%
of waste materials generated from new construction was recycled.

sumitomo forestry deployed industrial waste traceability systems in ten offices in japan. the system applies ic
tags to industrial waste, which is separated and picked up separately, and sends back information in an electronic
manifest, allowing for tracking of the movements of the waste. this system will enable the accurate measurement
of the volume of waste generated, as well as contribute greatly to the elimination of illegal dumping.


   waste reduction at new housing construction sites(p.139)




                                                              40

                        reducing environmental impact during occupancy

the ryouonbou design method
sumitomo forestry uses the ryouonbou design method as a technology for passive reduction of environmental
impact. ryouonbou leverages the wisdom and techniques that characterize traditional japanese houses in skillfully
using natural forces to create a comfortable living environment without reliance upon cooling and heating
equipment. during summer, “wind design” blocks out the sun's rays and creates a path along which air can flow,
creating a cooling sensation. during winter, “sun design” captures the heat of the sun, not allowing it to escape.
“green design” uses greenery as a natural air conditioning unit. ryouonbou combines elements of each design
direction to create a naturally comfortable and comforting home.

through the introduction of ryouonbou design, test calculations using model plans demonstrate the potential to
reduce co2 emissions during occupancy by up to 40% compared with houses built to the new energy efficiency
standards.



                      i think a home that is cool in summer and warm in winter is a comfortable house and economical, too. i think it
                      would be great if this could be applied to not only houses, but to retail stores, offices, and schools, too.
                      (customer)



utilization of solar power
sumitomo forestry is utilizing solar power as an active technology to reduce environmental impact. its myforest-
solabo co2-conserving promotion model boasts a double solar system combining a solar power generation and a
solar hot water system. this reduces co2 emissions by about 65%1 compared to a house built to meet 1992
energy conservation standards.

the solar hot water system uses medium-heat antifreeze that absorbs heat circulating in a roof-mounted solar
thermal energy panel. the antifreeze heats up water stored in a tank, and a gas heater adjusts the water
temperature to appropriate levels for home use. this system ensures a stable hot water supply, and also makes
significant contributions in reducing co2 emissions during occupancy, given that hot water systems account for
about 30% of an ordinary household's energy consumption, and the use of solar energy as heat in its original form
ensures efficient energy use.

1 this estimate is based on a two-floor house with a total floor area of 130.83 m2 and occupied by a family of four in tsukuba city,
 ibaraki prefecture. it is also based on certain assumptions in sumitomo forestry's model plan, and could differ from reality.



    growing use of solar energy in houses(p.136)




                                                                 41

residential landscaping that contributes to conservation of
biodiversity—“ mou hitotsu no mori-zukuri ™”
in consideration of global warming and biodiversity, sumitomo
forestry landscaping co., ltd. launched the “mou hitotsu no
mori-zukuri™” (making another forest) project for the
greenification of towns and residences to create new green spaces
equivalent to the land area of company-owned forests, which
comprise approximately 1/900th of the total area of japan.
through the landscaping business, we have been encouraging the
planting of native species, and currently, aiming for promotion of
biodiversity, we have clearly classified the trees and plants used in
landscaping from the perspective of biodiversity.

                                                                                   sumitomo forestry shinjuku model home whose
                                                                                   exterior and landscaping were designed under
                                                                                   the concept of “creating a forest visited by
                                                                                   small birds in shinjuku.” the selected trees and
                                                                                   plants are species indigenous to japan and the
                                                                                   planted trees are species favored by small birds.
                                                                                   the garden is design to blend harmoniously with
                                                                                   local nature.




   residential landscaping that contributes to conservation of biodiversity(p.60




                                  promote home renovation business

sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. offers renovation services that enable customers to continue living
comfortably in their homes for generations.

it is said that 40% of the existing homes lack adequate seismic resistance, making seismic reinforcement essential
to continue living in the structure with peace of mind. sumitomo forestry home tech works in conjunction with the
tsukuba research institute to develop proprietary technologies to increase seismic resistance, including the
sumirin-jem construction method.

the company also renovates traditional japanese homes, leveraging the expertise refined through decades of
experience in wood construction housing. to pass on homes that have seen history made to the next generations
is also vital from the perspective of preserving valuable social assets. in fiscal 2009, the company renovated
approximately 200 homes built in or before 1950.


   promoting renovation projects(p.80)




   future plans

   strengthen development of environmentally sound products
   strengthen environmental landscaping business
   expand renovation business




                                                              42

       plantation forest operations to offset co 2 emitted by principal structural
           members from harvesting of timber to construction of housing

from april 2009, sumitomo forestry began a program of using plantations
to absorb the co2 emitted over the lifetime of principal structural
members, from the harvesting of timber to the construction of housing.
the principal structural members used in housing generate approximately
six tons of co2 per unit, from the cutting down of timber to actual
construction. it is possible to offset this by planting trees on land area
equivalent to two times the floorspace of the house and cultivating these
trees for ten years. in order to offset the co2 emitted by all the
custom-built and spec homes sold during the five-year period beginning
with fiscal 2009, we plan to plant approximately 2,000,000 trees on 1,500
hectares of land during the five years, then manage and cultivate the trees
for another ten years.

there are two methods of tree plantation, “environmental reforestation,”
whereby timber is not cut down, and “industrial reforestation”, where mature trees are cut down and used as raw
materials for processed wood products.

 how carbon offsets work




                                                          43

                                                  in fiscal 2009, we conducted environmental reforestation on 60 hectares
                                                  of protected forests in indonesia's bromo tengger semeru national park.
                                                  in this park, located on expansive highlands at an altitude of 1700 to 2500
                                                  meters, the majority of the park was grasslands, having been degraded by
                                                  repeated forest fires and sulfurous acid gas released by mount bromo.
                                                  here, aspiring to recreate a verdant forest environment, we planted trees
                                                  native to the soil, including casuarina junghuhniana miq. and schima
                                                  walichii.




further, we have begun monitoring animals, insects, and plant life, in
conjunction with indonesian universities and research institutions, in order
to survey the impact of plantation activity upon biodiversity. these surveys
are investigating the effects of plantation forestry upon the remaining
natural forests in the national park, as well as the impact upon the
surrounding environment as forests recover as a result of plantation
activity. surveys to date have shown mammalian species such as old world
monkeys (cercopithecidae), and avian species are inhabiting both the
natural and plantation forests. we will continue the surveys to shed further
light upon the relationship between plantation activity and biodiversity.




from fiscal 2010, we are working in cooperation with local residents to conduct sustainable industrial reforestation in
areas outside of the protected forests in the above-mentioned national park. the local residents will share in the profits
when the timber is harvested in several years, with the remainder allocated to cover the costs of reforestation and
cultivation of forests, creating a new source of income for the people of the region. we are committed to plantation
forestry that contributes to the local community through the realization of sustainable forestry management.

to communicate the progress of these efforts to people who have actually
purchased a home, we publish regular updates on club forest - a dedicated
website for owners of sumitomo forestry homes. we will continue to
advance our efforts with carbon offsets and raise awareness of the value of
prevention of global warming and preservation of indonesian forests
amongst our customers.




                          i expect big things from the implementation of carbon offsets through plantation activities. (student)
                          i think revitalizing the world's deforested lands through plantation forestry and creating new employment in
                          local communities are vital to the global economy. (student)
                          with the advent of the eco-point system for housing, i expect environmentally sound housing will grow. if the
                          number of homes like these expands across japan, perhaps the earth has a future. (consumer)




                                                                 44

                                                      voices from the marketing strategy
                                                      department
                                               as environmental legislation concerning housing grows, including the new
                                               system for buying back electricity generated by solar power generation
                                               and eco-points for houses, the number of customers who make
                                               environmental consideration a factor in selecting the partner who will build
                                               their home continues to rise.

                                               at sumitomo forestry, we promote environmentally sound housing
                                               through proposing energy-saving equipment such as solar power
                                               generation and ene-farm technology; through intelligent use of the power
                                               of nature, our ryouonbou design concept, which enables lifestyles not
                                               dependent upon heating and cooling systems; and through proactive use
                                               of japanese timber. moreover, we believe we must provide not only the
                                               fundamental functionality of a home, but even more value to our
                                               customers.


carbon offset home building is one such initiative, using plantations to absorb the co2 emitted over the lifetime of
principal structural members, from harvesting of timber to construction of homes. we are the first homebuilder to offer
this approach, leveraging our long experience with creating forests and contributing to the environment through home
building. we believe this corporate stance is linked to increasing customers' trust in our company and their peace of
mind.

in the marketing strategy department, we publish information and provide training for our sales people regarding the
environmental activities of sumitomo ringyo no ie (sumitomo forestry home) houses, including carbon offset home
building. we also provide this information to our customers through publication of catalogs and pamphlets. we will
continue to proactively provide information about our activities.

     comments from an expert authority
everyone wants to have both a sustainable lifestyle and peace of mind.
that's not something given, however, it is something that we must earn
through living life intelligently. consumers can play an important role by
selecting products and services that consider the environment.

one's home is the foundation of one's life and it's a lifelong relationship.
that's why it's so important to make intelligent choices. and only
homebuilders can help reduce the environmental impact of housing during
two stages of its life cycle: procurement of resources and during
construction. sumitomo forestry's system for carbon offsets is a new
concept, and one that is very impressive.




i was curious as to how this story was being told so i visited a model home. while the salesperson answered my questions
about co2 offsets in detail when asked, i think it would be even better if the salesperson proactively volunteered to tell
this story at their own initiative and in a way that excites and inspires customers—because it's such a great system. if
consumers don't know about it, they can't imagine it, which is why telling this story is also csr.




                                                             45

sumitomo forestry group: fy2009 co 2 emission volume




fiscal 2009 targets

establish total targets for co2 emissions for plants in and outside japan
promote activities to offset co2 emissions during housing construction




                                                    46

      fiscal 2009 performance

                setting of new targets for reduction of co 2 emissions at plants
                                    in japan and overseas

sumitomo forestry has endeavored to reduce co2 emissions, based on the medium-term environmental management
policy, by setting five-year targets for fiscal years 2006 to 2010 in three areas of operation: offices, plants in japan, and
plants outside japan.

in december 2009, however, the group revised the co2 reduction targets in the environmental management mid-term
plan due to the difficulty of determining the actual status of co2 reduction activities per sales unit shared by plants in
japan and overseas, which is easily impacted by economic downturns.

the new targets for plants in japan have been set using appropriate base units for each plant, resulting in indicators that
enable much easier management of reduction efforts at the production stage. further, targets and management
indicators for total emissions, emissions per sales unit, and/or other measures as appropriate to each plant have been
set in consideration of local laws and regulations.

at the current time, the mid-term targets are set for fiscal 2014. we will continue to consider setting of long-term
targets in consideration of the japanese government's movement to set targets for reduction of greenhouse gases, as
well as deliberations at the global level.



         medium-term environmental management plan
         new targets for reducing co 2 emissions

    offices             by fy2010, achieve a 12% reduction in overall emissions compared with fy2006, and
                        maintain this level to 2014.

    plants in           by fy2014, achieve an 8% reduction in base units1 compared with fy2006.
    japan

    plants              set targets for each plant in consideration of local laws and regulations, including overall
    outside japan       emissions, emissions per unit sold, and/or other targets as appropriate to each plant.

   1 base units are set appropriately for each product line at each plant.




   medium-term environmental management policy
   old targets for reducing co2 emissions
    offices                     12% reduction of total emissions by fy2010 from 2006 levels

    plants in japan             5% reduction of emissions per sales unit by fy2010 from 2006 levels

    plants outside japan        20% reduction of emissions per sales unit by fy2010 from 2006 levels




                                                                     47

offices                                                           plants in japan




plants outside japan




the results of fiscal 2009 shows only co2 emissions, since the company revised reduction targets in the environmental management
mid-term plan in december 2009.


 reducing the effects of business operations on global warming(p.130)




                                        activities at plants and offices

  displaying carbon footprints
 sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. began displaying carbon footprints1 on plywood made of japanese timber in
 may 2009 at its komatsushima plant. this program to display carbon footprints on wood products is a first in
 japan. going forward, we will research all carbon footprints of the products which are manufactured at this plant.

 from october 2009, pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi) began
 displaying the carbon footprint on the particleboard products they
 manufacture and sell. this marks the first time that an indonesian
 company has labeled timber products. rpi particleboard products
 make effective use of resources, using wood leftover from logging,
 sawdust, and timber from company-owned plantations. further, the
 company's products are manufactured using low carbon emission
 methods, including the use of electricity from a wood biomass power
 generation facility.




 1 greenhouse gases emitted during the entire life cycle of the product and service, from procurement of raw materials to disposal
    and recycling, are converted to co2 to present the data in a more understandable manner.



     life cycle assessments(p.127)




                                                                 48

  cdm business using wood biomass for power generation
  at pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi), a four-megawatt wood biomass power facility that primarily burns lumber
  mill-ends and sawdust was approved as a cdm project by the united nation's cdm executive board and registered
  as such on may 23, 2008. this was the first wood biomass power station in indonesia to be registered as a cdm
  business. by replacing its existing diesel generators with wood biomass generators, rpi expects to reduce its co2
  emissions by about 15,000 tons a year.

  the facility began full operations from june 2008 and rpi's 2009 co2 emissions were 4,859 tons, a reduction from
  10,033 tons in fiscal 2007 before operations began. in fiscal 2010, the estimated co2 output will be 4,385 tons.



  reducing co 2 emissions from offices
  in order to reduce the co2 generated by offices, the sumitomo forestry group sets common targets across all
  group companies and continues to advance its efforts in its offices to the greatest possible extent.

  at the company's model homes and showrooms across japan, we began from fiscal 2008 to switch over to
  environmentally sound lighting systems. in fiscal 2009, we began turning off the daytime lighting (on second
  floors) when customers are not present in model homes across the nation.

  from fiscal 2009, in order to reduce co2 output from offices, we specifically focused on activities to reduce the
  amount of electricity and gasoline used in daily business.


      energy conservation in offices(p.170)




                          reducing co 2 during construction and occupancy

  promotion of carbon offsets during housing construction
      promoting global warming countermeasures through our business(p.43)




  reducing co 2 output during occupancy
      providing environmentally friendly homes(p.34)




     future plans

medium-term environmental management plan
new co2 emission volume reduction targets
 offices              by fy2010, achieve a 12% reduction in overall emissions compared with fy2006, and maintain
                      this level to 2014.

 plants in            by fy2014, achieve an 8% reduction in base units1 compared with fy2006.
 japan

 plants outside       set targets for each plant in consideration of local laws and regulations, including overall
 japan                emissions, emissions per unit sold, and/or other targets as appropriate to each plant.
1 base units are set appropriately for each product line at each plant.




                                                                    49

                        expanding opportunities for people with disabilities
                                  to improve corporate value

what challenges do people with disabilities encounter working in companies? what ways of working lead to increased
corporate value? employees with disabilities and personnel managers came together to discuss these and other
questions. joining the discussion was mr. makoto hata, who has been involved for many years with promoting the
employment of people with disabilities under the philosophy, “the experience and ideas of employees with disabilities
are linked to improving corporate value.”




                                                          50

      makoto hata                                                 tomio harada
      director                                                    (hearing challenged)
      employment support center for people with                   design group / design support / architect, 2nd
      disabilities (non-profit organization)                      class
                                                                  tama branch, housing division




      terumi shintani (visually challenged)                       kenji nemoto
      osaka customer support center / administration              (upper body challenged) (upper limbs & trunk)
      quality control & customer information                      saitama operations department / administration
      department                                                  sumitomo forestry home engineering co., ltd.
      housing division




      yasushi seharada                                            koichi shimizu
      (hearing challenged)                                        general manager, personnel department
      toshin center / cad operations / architect, 2nd
      class
      sumitomo forestry archi techno co., ltd.




      haruhiko nakamaru                                           tatsumi kawata
      (manager of facility with employees with                    (manager, employment of people with disabilities)
      disabilities)                                               planning / work life group, personnel department
      manager, toshin center
      sumitomo forestry archi techno co., ltd.




      michiyo tanaka
      (hemiplegically challenged, vocally challenged)
      design group / designer
      shonan branch, housing division




communication in the workplace
what sorts of things do you feel in the course of your daily work?
    nemoto: i joined the company in december, a busy time for everyone. at first, i had trouble communicating
    well with people, but when someone asked me if i wanted to join them in playing sports, something outside of
    work, well, that broke the ice and i've been able to get along well with everyone.




                                                        51

tanaka: on my first day of work, there was a person who wouldn't look me in the
eyes and i felt a little hurt. i heard later that person was just surprised because they
hadn't heard that a person with disabilities was coming to work. on the other hand,
there were people who said, “may i ask you about your disability?” which made me
feel grateful. in order to avoid misunderstandings, it's really important that the
people around you understand the nature of the disability.




mr. hata: the understanding of the people around you is really important, isn't it? when communication
doesn't go well, people may lose their confidence, build up stress, and become unable to continue working. if
you write up the nature of your disability and how others can help, passing out a single a4 sheet of paper
goes a long way toward increasing understanding of the people around you. i recommend that you don't be
shy and appeal to the people around you.

nakamaru: i grew up in a family with a hearing-challenged person so i know, but
even when the non-challenged person feels “i'm communicating,” the hearing-
challenged person probably has many frustrations. it's really hard to understand the
subtle nuances in conversations or jokes, just through sign language or in writing.
and if we aren't facing hearing-challenged people directly, there's no way we can
catch what they are saying. i think it would be good to have training specifically for
how to communicate with hearing-challenged people.




kawata: for each employee with a disability, we arrange for the individual to meet with the people in the
department where they'll be working so they can have a better understanding of the nature of the disability,
but it seems we need to do more, doesn't it?


seharada: even though i have a hearing disability, i am able to do my work because the members of our
team write a summary of meetings and telephone calls for me. people who aren't on the team or who are
from other departments don't know about that kind of detailed support.


harada: there are people who mistakenly believe, “if i speak in a loud voice, a person with a hearing
disability can hear me.” and often the written notes are too brief and it feels like they're giving orders. when
i ask “why?” or “how?” people will make more detailed memos or send me an e-mail summarizing the
morning briefing, for which i am very grateful.

shintani: before i joined the company, i worked for 13 years as a
telephone switchboard operator at a department store. i was proud of
that and so, in the beginning, i deliberately didn't explain about my
disability. i wanted to be recognized as a “person we can use” by
showing people i could do each and every job. as a result, there were
many difficulties and, looking back, i'm not so sure that approach was
a good one. but now, there are times when my colleagues rely on me
and i feel validated by the people around me.


shimizu: i think it's extremely important for the diversity of employees to communicate with each other and
create a place where it's easy for them to work together. as a company providing services related to housing
and lifestyles, we must embrace employee diversity and stand in each other's shoes to foster greater
understanding because that will help us to understand our customers better.




                                                  52

    mr. hata: i heard a story from an apparel company where 8% of the employees are people with disabilities.
    in their experience, the care that employees with no disabilities show toward employees with disabilities
    manifests itself as consideration for customers. by working together every day, by learning on a daily basis,
    the sense of consideration for others naturally becomes part of that person and this is reflected in their
    behavior. people have a tendency to generalize that hiring people with disabilities will lower work efficiency,
    but there are many cases where it's turned out to be a plus.



leveraging disabilities to improve corporate value
as a homebuilder, our company is deeply involved in people's lives. how can
we best utilize our people with disabilities to further increase corporate
value?
    shintani: i asked a few friends for their opinions since i would be participating in
    this discussion. visually and physically challenged people have many requests for
    architectural designs that consider the needs of people with their type of disabilities.
    i think it's vital that we listen and respond to those needs.




    seharada: if we had a system that leverages of the experience of employees with disabilities, where they
    could give advice to the project managers during the design phase, i think we could respond to the needs of
    customers with disabilities in very concrete ways.


    harada: when a friend who is hearing challenged visited the showroom of a
    homebuilder, he lost interest because there was no advice or explanation regarding
    features or fittings designed for people with disabilities. if we could say “we can do
    this” and offer ideas matched to the person's disability, then i'm certain they would
    say, “if that's the case, let's build a home with this company.”




    tanaka: i'm a certified housing environment coordinator for elderly and disabled people. i would like to be
    of service to our customers who have disabilities, using not only my functional knowledge of facilities for
    people with disabilities, but also incorporate the opinions of the people who use them. it's unfortunate that i
    haven't been able to do so. i'd be delighted to use my personal experience and certification in creating a
    catalog for elders and people with disabilities, or be involved in the planning of a model house for people with
    disabilities.

    seharada: i'd love to visit a model home designed specifically for elders and people with disabilities.




    mr. hata: there is a hotel chain that had an employee with disabilities test the usability of their hotels,
    asking the person to speak frankly about the problems they encountered and what they would like, and
    reflecting this in a manual. no matter how hard a person without disabilities tries to imagine, there are things
    that only people with disabilities can understand.




                                                      53

i've visited many model rooms and showrooms, both our own and those of our
competitors. sometimes, there isn't sufficient understanding that people can have
different disabilities and also varying degrees of severity of a given disability. there
may be times when they feel the salesperson is finding it difficult or troublesome to
deal with them. people with disabilities are sensitized to the reactions of people
around them and just the expression on the salesperson's face can make them feel
discriminated against. in that instant, they'll decide, “i'm not working with this
homebuilder.” i think it's important to provide information about disabilities, to
establish standards for interacting with people with disabilities, and not just make
catalogs.

harada: i heard a story about a hearing-challenged customer who built a house who said, “i really wanted
to make more detailed requests but communication with the project manager took time and i wasn't able to
say everything i wanted to because i didn't want to cause him any more inconvenience.” if i could be
involved in the architectural planning for customers with disabilities, i think i could be of help with not just the
technical aspects but also with ensuring smooth communications during meetings from the perspective of
the customer.

seharada: i think customers with disabilities should feel we want them to live in a
house they'll be totally satisfied with.




mr. hata: everyone's insights are extremely valuable, even from a management perspective. if you can
reflect the things you feel every day in your work, then you'll make a huge contribution to the company.



nakamaru: i think it's such a missed opportunity that we aren't utilizing the knowledge of employees with
disabilities. perhaps it is necessary for the company to proactively consider how we can efficiently leverage
this knowledge.


mr. hata: if one could search for this knowledge by type of disability, you could
share insights matched to specific needs. as a first step, perhaps you could start by
collecting and collating the voices of all employees with disabilities? listening to you
all, i'm delighted with everyone's high enthusiasm and desire to help. when people
hear “employ people with disabilities,” it's easy to think, “what kind of support
will each disability require?” but what is important is to first consider how to
leverage the person's individuality and their talents. in so doing, the difficulties and
struggles people have experienced will be resolved.



nakamaru: i think the people who have gathered here today are the kind of people who never give up and
keep striving even if they have a disability. but i know there must be those who find it difficult to keep going.
as a person who doesn't have a disability, i was reminded of my mission and role in determining what should
be done next.




                                                  54

     response to the discussion

we have learned a lot by listening to everyone speak today.
we realize with regret that we weren't doing enough to help
with the struggles and difficulties employees with disabilities
experience. we want to implement the ideas expressed in the
discussion today, ideas that enhance the identity of people
with disabilities, starting from the ones that can be done right
away.

there was a time when it was thought best to hire people with
the same types of disability and put them in one department.
clearly, however, today's discussion has re-emphasized that
we should aspire to a workplace where people with disabilities         koi chi shi mizu        tatsumi kawata
and people without disabilities can work together side-by-side,
build mutually supportive relationships, and learn from each
other.

the group plans to increase the number of people with disabilities we employ. together with all of you, we will
continue to strive to create a workplace where all employees, regardless of whether or not they have a disability,
can work with enthusiasm and achieve great things.




                                                         55

      targets in fy2009

       begin management of the refresh vacation plan for employees
       encourage employees to take substitute holidays and compensatory leave
       promote the hiring of people with disabilities
       encourage male employees to take childcare leave and prepare childcare pamphlets
       promote the career support desk




      fiscal 2009 results


         performance highlights

                                                            2007        2008    2009

    utilization of refresh vacation program                   52%         45%     61%

    utilization of childcare leave (women who gave birth)    100%        100%    100%

    ratio of disabled employees                             1.67%       1.54%   1.82%




                  promoting work-life balance and diversity in the workplace

sumitomo forestry, as a company involved with housing and lifestyles, strives to create a workplace where employees
can treasure their families and create a rich family life. the company is committed to continuous improvement of a
system that supports both work and private life, as well as ensuring that all employees take advantage of the system.
from fiscal 2008, in recognition of the diversity of workstyles, the company re-organized the positive action group as
the work & life group to promote the creation of a workplace that is easy to work in.

   helping employees achieve work-life balance(p.96)




   start of refresh vacation utilization management
   established with the objective of 100% utilization of refresh vacations by all employees, the company launched
   the refresh vacation utilization management program in january 2009. as a result, the average utilization of
   refresh vacations increased to 61%, an improvement over the 45% recorded in fiscal 2008.




                                                                   56

promoting the employment of people with disabilities
sumitomo forestry is committed to the employment of people with disabilities. until now, the employment of
people with disabilities was centered on the branch offices of the housing division. to expand employment of
people with disabilities at headquarters, a special team was created to promote the establishment of a workplace
for people with disabilities. comprised of members selected from each department, the team considered such
issues as work content matched to the nature of the disability, the structure and form of employment, preparing
the workplace, and on-the-job training aiming to develop skills and careers.

  employment of people with disabilities

                                    2007      2008      2009

 ratio of disabled employees        1.67%     1.54%     1.82%


employees with disabilities, by type of disability (as of march 31, 2010)

 type of disability                  no. of people     degree of severity         no. of people

 visually challenged                             8     profound, severe                      32

 hearing challenged                            15      moderate, mild                        29

 physically challenged                         26      total                                 61

 medically challenged                          12

 total                                         61




    expanding opportunities for people with disabilities to improve corporate value(p.50)




promotion of male employees taking childcare leave
as part of sumitomo forestry's efforts to value families, the company
encourages male employees to take childcare leave. surveys are taken of male
employees whose spouses have given birth to a child and childcare leave guides
are distributed to male employees. the company intranet is also used to publicize
the status of employees taking childcare leave, as well as stories from employees
who have taken childcare leave. in fiscal 2009, the number of male employees
taking childcare leave increased to 17.

in fiscal 2009, the company hosted the fifth annual conference for employees
who are taking childcare leave, including two male employees. the participants
held a lively discussion with the company president on how to increase
acceptance of continuing to work while raising children. this year marked the first
time that the employees' supervisors and peers participated in the program.
based on the contents of these discussions, sumitomo forestry published and
distributed a work-life balance pamphlet to all employees in april 2010.




                        i'm very interested in your childcare leave program for male employees. i'd like to know the specifics because a
                        program in name only, where no one actually participates, is meaningless. (shareholder/investor)



enhancement of family care leave and family illness/injury care leave
in order to allow more employees to take leave to care for family members, the system was revised in fiscal 2010
to allow employees to take the equivalent of ten days a year in one-hour increments to care for their family.




                                                                   57

launching the telework program
to realize a diversity of workstyles, following two monitoring surveys conducted in fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry
formally launched the telework program in fiscal 2009, in which employees may work at home or other location
remotely. accordingly, sumitomo forestry revised its information technology and security measures to establish
the systems for the treatment, working environment and health management of telework employees. eight
employees are participating in the program—employees who have needs for childcare or family care—as well as
those whose commute times were especially long.




                                   enhancement of career support

enhancement of career support desk
the career support desk opened in april 2007 to provide individual support to employees in managing their
careers. specialized career advisers provide expert career advice for individual employees. in fiscal 2009, 31
people made use of this service.

sumitomo forestry launched the mentoring program in fiscal 2008, creating a one-to-one relationship between the
mentor and the employee. the mentor provides counsel to the employee and supports his or her long-term career
development. the mentoring program is designed to create a corporate climate in which employees can support
each other's growth freely and continuously. in fiscal 2009, three pairs participated in the program for the full year.


   together with our employees(p.94)




   future plans

   support the development of the next generation: setting the 4th action plan
   establishment of a workplace environment supportive of employees raising children /
   encouraging male employees to take childcare leave
   establishment of the action committee to reduce long work hours
   promotion of utilization of paid holidays
   implementation of training for employees with disabilities




                                                         58

biodiversity is an essential condition that forms the very foundation for supporting human life. currently, however,
biodiversity is being lost at a rapid pace around the world due to human activity. as a company with a deep relationship
with forests, sumitomo forestry focuses its resources on the preservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.


      biodiversity and sumitomo forestry's operations
wood has been the axis of sumitomo forestry's businesses since our founding centuries ago. while many companies are
indirectly involved with biodiversity through their supply chains, at sumitomo forestry, planting trees and cultivating
forests that support biodiversity is directly and inextricably our business—we are passionately cognizant of the critical
importance of, and our responsibility for, biodiversity. moreover, wood is one of the blessings we receive from
biodiversity. if biodiversity is lost, we risk losing the foundation of our business, thus it is imperative that we are
proactively and aggressively involved with preserving and encouraging biodiversity to an even greater degree than other
companies.

                        because you're in an industry that handles timber, i expect sumitomo forestry to continue its proactive efforts to
                        preserve biodiversity and engage in sustainable forestry. (company employee)



   preserving biodiversity(p.151)




      policy and plans for biodiversity preservation
sumitomo forestry declared its commitment to preserve biodiversity when it revised its environmental philosophy and
set forth its timber procurement philosophy and policy in fiscal 2007. the company has endeavored to preserve
biodiversity through such initiatives as promulgating its policy on biodiversity preservation in company-owned forests in
japan, monitoring animal life, preserving riparian forests, and publishing the red data book listing all endangered species
that may be living in company-owned forests.

                        i firmly believe that sumitomo forestry will be recognized as a company that contributes to the earth, a company
                        that protects the forests that nurture life, through the implementation of policies that consider the generations
                        to come. (research/education)




      assessments and evaluations of the linkage between our businesses and
      biodiversity
in fiscal 2009, to identify the impact of our businesses on biodiversity, we conducted assessments and
evaluations—from the perspective of biodiversity—of our operations, particularly in those business domains where it is
thought our activities impact biodiversity. based on the results, each division is engaged in specific activities. we seek
out third-party perspectives from experts and specialists from ngos and npos to ensure objectivity, and actively
advance our activities in an effective manner.




                                                                   59

 how our businesses are linked to biodiversity

         business domain                                 activities to preserve biodiversity

                                     preservation of natural forests
forestry / environment operations    biodiversity-friendly operations in company-owned forests
                                     protection of rare animal and plant species

                                     procurement of timber from forests where sustainable forestry is
timber and building materials        practiced
distribution / building materials    manufacture and handling of products using certified timber and
manufacturing                        plantation timber
                                     greenification of land where plants are located

housing / real estate /              landscaping using native / indigenous plant species
landscaping                          proactive use of japanese timber

                                     switchover to plantation timber as raw materials
overseas operations                  plantation operations that consider zoning and coexistence with the
                                     local community.

research and development             conservation of precious germ-plasm stocks

                                     regeneration of tropical rain forests
social contribution activities       restoration of native forests at the mt. fuji manabi no mori
                                     environmental education activities at the mt. fuji manabi no mori




      major activities in fiscal 2009


         residential landscaping that contributes to conservation of
         biodiversity—“ mou hitotsu no mori-zukuri ™”

  in consideration of global warming and biodiversity, sumitomo
  forestry landscaping co., ltd. launched the “mou hitotsu no
  mori-zukuri™” (making another forest) project for the
  greenification of towns and residences to create new green
  spaces equivalent to the land area of company-owned forests,
  which comprise approximately 1/900th of the total area of
  japan. through the landscaping business, we have been
  encouraging the planting of native species, and currently, aiming
  for promotion of biodiversity, we have clearly classified the trees
  and plants used in landscaping from the perspective of
  biodiversity.
                                                                                     sumitomo forestry shinjuku model home whose
  we have made it possible to select plants and trees that are             exterior and landscaping were designed under
  appropriate to four types of areas—protected area, conservation          the concept of “creating a forest visited by
  area, satoyama area1, city area—which have been classified in            small birds in shinjuku.” the selected trees and
  consideration of the degree of conservation for the area to be           plants are species indigenous to japan and the
                                                                           planted trees are species favored by small birds.
  landscaped. the classification system considers ecosystem
                                                                           the garden is designed to blend harmoniously
  invasiveness and the risk of disruption of the genetic systems of        with local nature.
  the region for the plants and trees used in landscaping. for
  example, in city areas where landscaping of residential gardens is
  undertaken, plants used in landscaping are selected from “a
  range of species to be planted that are primarily native to the region, including cultivatable species, as well as
  species determined to be non-invasive.”

  we have named such biodiversity-friendly plants and trees to be used in landscaping, “harmonic plants™” and
  actively encourage customer consideration through the use of pamphlets and other communication tools.

  1 traditional japanese countryside landscape




                                                                    60

         biodiversity activities at plants

   sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd., in commemoration of the
   merger with the former toyo plywood co., ltd., is planning
   biodiversity conservation activities optimized for the local
   communities where its seven production facilities are located, under
   the shared objective of “providing habitats for local species and
   rest areas through conservation of plant life indigenous to the local
   community.”
   for example, at the kashima plant, we are planning the cultivation of
   the endangered plant species, beach silvertop (glehnia littoralis),
   which is native to the sandy beaches of kashima. as a first step, we
   have begun cultivation in planter boxes of seeds received from
   kamisu city.
   at the no.2 kyushu plant, in order to preserve native bird species,
   we are scheduled to conduct survey assessments of the status of bird species, and cultivation of trees that are
   appropriate for each target bird species. we intend to initiate biodiversity conservation programs at each of our
   other plants.




      activities going forward
we will continue to promote conservation of biodiversity in not only residential landscaping and biodiversity activities at
plants, but also across our business operations.

the united nations has designated 2010 as the “international year of biodiversity,” and in october, the tenth meeting
of the conference of the parties (cop10) convention on biological diversity will be convened in nagoya, aichi prefecture.
we will continue to contribute to the preservation of biodiversity through the technologies we've developed, while raising
awareness of the importance of biodiversity by dissemination of information at a variety of opportunities.




                                                            61

the global compact is a united nations initiative started at the suggestion of former un secretary-general kofi annan in
1999. the participating companies from around the world support and pursue ten principles in the four areas of human
rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption to resolve a wide range of problems stemming from the globalization
of the world's economy and to create a sustainable society.



         the ten principles of the un global compact

   human rights
   principle 1:    businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally
                   proclaimed human rights; and
   principle 2:    make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.

   labour standards
   principle 3:    businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective
                   recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
   principle 4:    the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
   principle 5:    the effective abolition of child labour; and
   principle 6:    the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

   environment
   principle 7:    businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
   principle 8:    undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
   principle 9:    encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.

   anti-corruption
   principle 10:   businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.




                                                              62

 global compact content index

     area                                               principle                                                 location

                                                                                                      our values and ideals(p.17)
                                                                                                      communication with business
                                  the support and respect of the protection of international human    partners(p.89)
                  principle 1:
                                  rights;                                                             human rights programs(p.99)
human rights
                                                                                                      creating a safe and healthy
                                                                                                      workplace(p.101)

                  principle 2:    the refusal to participate or condone human rights abuses.          our values and ideals(p.17)

                                  the support of freedom of association and the recognition of the    relations with the labor
                  principle 3:
                                  right to collective bargaining;                                     union(p.100)

                                                                                                      prevention of child labor and
                  principle 4:    the abolition of compulsory labour;
                                                                                                      forced labor(p.101)

labour
                                                                                                      prevention of child labor and
                  principle 5:    the abolition of child labour;
                                                                                                      forced labor(p.101)

                                                                                                      human rights programs(p.99)
                  principle 6:    the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation.     promoting affirmative
                                                                                                      action(p.98)

                                  the implementation of a precautionary and effective program to
                  principle 7:                                                                        environmental report(p.114)
                                  environmental issues;

environment       principle 8:    initiatives that demonstrate environmental responsibility;          environmental report(p.114)

                                  the promotion of the diffusion of environmentally friendly
                  principle 9:                                                                        environmental report(p.115)
                                  technologies.

                                  the promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of
anti-corruption   principle 10:                                                                       our values and ideals(p.17)
                                  corruption, including extortion and bribery.




                                                                        63

we asked environmental journalist yuko sakita to comment on this report.


                                          introduction
                                       the company's history of cultivating trees on the land and using them for
                                       housing spans more than 300 years, a testament to the foresight of
                                       management. in the commitment section, the company declares, “we will
                                       continue our efforts to realize environmental symbiosis—living in harmony with
                                       the environment—as only sumitomo forestry can, as an enterprise that takes
                                       pride in our businesses that leverage wood and that recognizes the unlimited
                                       business opportunities inherent in such activities.”

                                       the united nations has declared 2010 to be the international year of biological
                                       diversity and japan will host the 10th meeting of the conference of the parties
   yuko sakita                         to the convention on biological diversity (cop 10). i applaud sumitomo
   environmental journalist
                                       forestry for aspiring to live in harmony with the environment, counter global
                                       warming, and create a culture of recycling so as to realize a sustainable society
                                       from a global perspective that is firmly rooted in local communities and as a
                                       company whose businesses are directly related to the environment.


    visit to the tsukuba research institute
  i visited the tsukuba research institute for the first time to prepare to write this third party evaluation of the
  environmental and social report. i was impressed with the consideration being given to preservation of local
  ecosystems through planting of native species during landscaping of homes, environmental reforestation in
  indonesia, commercial reforestation operations that purchase timber cultivated by local residents to stimulate local
  economies, and the passion of the researchers as they worked to protect biodiversity while utilizing forests.

  i was able to observe the breadth of research being conducted, including development of technologies to make
  timber products from thinnings while utilizing as much japanese timber as possible during construction of housing.

  i was especially impressed with the research into housing and lifestyles, particularly the ryouonbou concept of using
  nature such as the sun and wind, rather than air conditioning, to create a comfortable living environment.

  the government of japan is also focused on the creation of a sustainable society and has set mid- to long-term
  targets for co2 reduction: 25% reduction compared to 1990 levels by the year 2020; 80% reduction by 2050.
  even as targets are being aggressively set, however, co2 released from homes and workplaces has actually risen
  34% since 1990, making finding solutions to reduce co2 output from people's lives a critical factor in reducing
  global warming. a big part of the solution will be “low-carbon homes and lifestyles,” and the ryouonbou design
  approach is a powerful and concrete measure that can be taken now. the creation of “net zero energy” homes
  through the use of new technologies in insulation, energy-efficient equipment, and solar power combined
  synergistically with the use of natural winds that flow through rooms and shade from trees will enable the creation of
  comfortable living the environments and lifestyles.

  i would like to see technology and nature combined to create comfortable places to live that are “just right, not too
  hot, not too cold,” and this can be done not just in new houses but also in renovation.




                                                           64

  overall impression
the defining characteristic of this environmental and social report 2010 is its focus on defining the most important
ways sumitomo forestry can contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. reflecting the voices of employees
and its many stakeholders, the company has distilled its mission into four focus areas, created road maps, declared
its intentions, and comprehensively implemented initiatives in its businesses.
⋅providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests
⋅providing environmentally friendly homes
⋅promoting global warming countermeasures through our businesses
⋅promoting family-centered employee lifestyles
these four items simply and clearly express the company's posture, and this strong message is an asset for a global
company with operations in manufacturing, distribution, home building and sales around the world. i expect
sumitomo forestry to continue developing its businesses in ways that are beneficial for both employees and the
environment, honoring its responsibilities to society—as befits a company that became a signatory to the united
nations global compact in 2008—and committing to upholding the principles of human rights, labor rights,
environmental protection, and anti-corruption.

  setting environmental targets
reviewing the primary targets of the medium-term environmental management plan, it's clear the company is
making efforts to reduce co2 generated from offices, plants in japan, and plants overseas. the co2 reduction
targets for domestic and overseas plants were previously based upon a per unit of revenue calculation, which can be
greatly influenced by global economic recession—total co2 emissions are down but co2 per unit of revenue is up.
the company is re-evaluating the targets by individual plant and i would like to see the company redouble its efforts
to materially reduce co2 emissions. as governments continue to fundamentally strengthen measures to counter
global warming, i would like to see sumitomo forestry take the lead when it sets new long-term targets.

setting targets for recyclable resources and industrial waste, the company aims to achieve zero emissions in 2012
through elimination of industrial waste disposal by simple incineration or landfill. i would also like to see even greater
efforts from the design stage, using environmentally sound design principles for example, to create zero emission
houses designed to last generations and also to be easily recycled.

  conclusion
this year, sumitomo forestry will stop printing this environmental and social report on paper and will shift to
online-only distribution. this is a very meaningful response to the increased volume of information required by full
disclosure and as a measure to conserve paper resources. i would suggest, however, that a simplified version could
be useful for people considering a custom-built home and the company's individual investors, including many seniors,
since they may be less familiar with computer technology. a simplified version would be useful in building
relationships of trust in a face-to-face setting.

further, i would like to see the company publish this information in multiple languages on the internet to share it with
the employees of each office and the residents of local communities around the world, earning the trust of people
across the globe and growing the company through the creation of a “virtuous cycle of environment and
economics.”




        visiting the experimental environmentally symbiotic house and tropical greenhouse at the tsukuba research institute




                                                               65

     reply to third party evaluation

we asked ms. yuko sakita to share her opinions as this year's third-party evaluator. to help ms. sakita to
understand the timber and wood products, housing, and overseas businesses of the company, as well as our csr
initiatives in each area of operation, we invited her to visit the tsukuba research institute, where she observed
firsthand the experimental environmentally symbiotic house and the development of plantation technology for
fast-growing tropical trees.

we take to heart ms. sakita's advice that a global company must have a strong message that clearly expresses
its corporate posture. we will continue to focus on the four material issues and, going forward, redouble our
efforts in corporate social responsibility in each country, community, and area, always keeping our corporate
philosophy, action guidelines, and our values and ideals top of mind.

                                                                                                   eita muto
                                                       general manager, corporate communications department




                                                        66

sumitomo forestry is working to enhance and reinforce its corporate governance to improve the transparency of its
corporate activities and ensure sound and reliable management.

    status of corporate governance and internal controls
sumitomo forestry introduced an executive officer system in 2002 with the aim of expediting the decision-making
process by separating the management and executive functions. in principle, the board of directors meets once per
month and the executive committee meets twice per month, or when necessary to address any sudden changes in the
business environment. the board of directors makes decisions on important issues affecting management, and also
supervises the execution of duties. the executive committee determines the direction of important policies and
strategies concerning operational performance. sumitomo forestry has also established a board of statutory auditors,
consisting of two internal and three external auditors for a total of five members. the total amount of compensation for
directors and internal and external auditors for each fiscal year is disclosed in business reports, in accordance with
relevant laws.

in addition, the company revised its basic policy for the system to ensure appropriate operations, which addresses
internal controls, in may 2009.

sumitomo forestry established a company-wide compliance and risk management system to enhance its ability to take
remedial action and reinforce its internal control functions. with the aim of carrying out more finely tuned activities, in
fiscal 2008 the risk management committee was created from the reorganization of a previous committee, with two
subcommittees established under its umbrella: the compliance sub-committee and the bcp (business continuity plan)
sub-committee. the risk management committee monitors progress in responding to potential risks, and reports
regularly to the board of directors and the board of auditors. in april 2009, the csr strategy committee was
reorganized as the csr committee to strengthen cooperation between divisions and enhance activities at job sites.

sumitomo forestry prepares documents on the standardization of regulations and operational procedures to ensure that
its financial accounting documents and related information are appropriate. reviews of main divisions are carried out to
determine the suitability of the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of the internal control system. the
internal audit department then carries out an evaluation of these results. the company strives to make qualitative
improvements to its internal control operations related to the suitability of its financial reporting on an ongoing basis.




                                                            67

corporate governance structure (as of june 30, 2010)




                      i would like sumitomo forestry to work toward ensuring that its management is transparent and fair.
                      (management-related csr expert)




                                                                68

sumitomo forestry is committed to proactive compliance management, aspiring to always be worthy of society's trust
by following social rules and strictly complying with the law. sumitomo forestry also continuously enhances internal
control and risk management to ensure the company can effectively deal with changes in the operating environment as
well as a diversity of risks.

    compliance and risk management
the sumitomo forestry group has set compliance management as one of its most important issues and has established
internal controls based on the basic policy on risk management set forth by the board of directors as stipulated under
the companies act to respond to foreseeable risks across the group. in march 2009, the group revised the corporate
regulations, establishing risk management regulations and crisis management rules. compliance risk and disaster risk
have been assigned priority and are being addressed through subcommittees comprised of working-level managers under
the auspices of the risk management committee.

compliance risk
the compliance subcommittee is the primary organization accountable for identification of issues, using a shared tool to
check compliance status with relevant laws and ordinances closely related to our business, such as the construction
industry act and licensed architect act, and for elevating the group's compliance level through continuous improvement
activity using the pdca cycle.

in order to maintain and develop good relationships with business partners in consideration of the economic conditions of
recent years, the group sponsors seminars for the compliance managers of all group companies led by external specialist
instructors. in fiscal 2009, the group sponsored seminars on such topics as promoting appropriate transactions with
subcontractors and the revised anti-monopoly act.


disaster risk
as the organization primarily accountable for disaster risk, the business continuity plan (bcp) sub-committee developed
business continuity plans for risks that are beyond the control of the company and are likely to significantly impact the
headquarters function. in november 2008, the sub-committee promulgated bcps for a major seismic event with an
epicenter in the capital area and also for novel influenza, and was active based on these plans in fiscal 2009.

① bcp for earthquake with epicenter in the capital area

  in the first half of the year, initiatives centered on securing an alternate location for the headquarters function,
  selection of members of the disaster response team, and establishment of the mobile pc infrastructure. in the second
  half, training was held for every level and layer. specifically, the sub-committee conducted drills for communication
  between management and the crisis response team immediately after a major seismic event, accounting for the 3,000
  employees based in the capital area, and transfer of the crisis response team and critical operations to the alternate
  headquarters, and participated in evacuation drills conducted by chiyoda ward, tokyo, where the company is
  headquartered.

  in fiscal 2010, a common system for accounting for each of the 12,000 employees in japan will be deployed across
  the group, aiming to secure the lives and safety of employees during a disaster.

② bcp for novel influenza

  in fiscal 2009, the group prepared response manuals, established the necessary infrastructure for working at home,
  distributed hygienic goods, and set due diligence policy and rules for reporting infections. while the novel influenza
  outbreak in summer 2009 caused great concern, the variant turned out to be a comparatively mild form of novel
  influenza, and the group monitored the infection rate among employees on a weekly basis. although the crisis had
  subsided by the beginning of the year, fears of an outbreak of a more toxic variant of novel influenza remain, and the
  group continues its preparations based on the original assumption of a deadly variant.




                                                             69

compliance counter
the number of incidents reported to the compliance counter (internal reporting system) dropped dramatically to four
cases in fiscal 2009 from 20 cases in the previous year. this is attributable to the proactive efforts of the compliance
sub-committee to identify and improve compliance issues. the group will continue its education activities aiming for
continuous operation of an appropriate system.


traffic safety
sumitomo forestry uses 2,217 vehicles (company-leased and those owned by employees) in the course of its business.
to eliminate traffic accidents and violations of traffic laws, the group has introduced a safe driving management system
that manages information related to driver's license renewals, violations of traffic laws and ordinances, vehicle inspection
and certification, and insurance. further, all employees who drive vehicles during their work or for commuting to and from
work are required to obtain and submit their certified driving record on an annual basis. all employees who have
accumulated points from violations receive cautions, education, and training in safe driving.
going forward, the safe driving management system will be standardized and deployed across all group companies.


rejection of influence from anti-social elements
sumitomo forestry set forth in 2007 the new ethics and behavior code, “our values and ideals,” institutionalizing the
long-held principle of “influence from anti-social elements will be met with a resolute attitude and no compromises will
be tolerated.” this stance has been communicated widely both within and outside the group. in fiscal 2009, this
principle was incorporated into the construction contracts we conclude with customers, further ensuring the soundness
of our contractual relationships.




                                                            70

    promotion of project speed, long-term management plan
in fiscal 2007, the sumitomo forestry group established project speed, a long-term management plan designed to
provide direction for pursuing and developing business activities.

the name “speed” not only refers to the rapidity with which the group will implement the plan, but also stands for
“strong passion enables us to become an excellent company by implementing detailed strategies.”

the sumitomo forestry group has passed down its sustainable business practices from generation to generation, as it
plants and grows trees, uses the timber to produce building materials, and finally builds houses. the aim of this long-term
management plan is to expand the company's business by promoting a new mindset among employees and transforming
the revenue structure. with a strong commitment to sustainable business practices, the plan designates forests as
having a central role in enriching people's lives and contributing to the community.

for the purpose of achieving a more balanced business portfolio, overseas operations, real estate operations, and home
renovation operations have been given focused attention as priority growth businesses, in addition to the timber and
building materials business and housing business, which are currently at the core of the company's revenue structure.



    financial performance
 net sales




 recurring income




                                                            71

  consolidated net sales by segment (fiscal 2009)




    contributing to the community by improving social infrastructure
as environmental consciousness continues to grow around the world, securing sustainable timber resources is a major
issue.

sumitomo forestry plants trees and produces timber products in countries outside japan. when starting new businesses
or expanding its overseas business sites, the company's policy is to consider the environment, revitalize local economies
and promote employment, with the aim of contributing to sustainable local development through its operations.

open bay timber ltd. (obt) is a group company engaged in plantation forestry in papua new guinea. obt started
plantation forestry operations in 1984 and has made significant contributions to the economic development of the local
community. obt became a member of the sumitomo forestry group in april 2007 and continues to develop plantation
timber resources in a responsible manner and to use those resources effectively.

in the open bay region where obt is located, government-provided social
infrastructure such as roads, schools and hospitals are inadequate so obt
operates a hospital, kindergarten and supermarket for employees and
children. obt also provides means of transportation for the local
residents, including emergency transportation of critically ill patients to
hospitals and shuttling of residents to and from marketplaces.

in fiscal 2009, obt launched a social contribution program that sends
promising young people from among the local tribes and employees to
oisca agricultural training. oisca is a japanese non-governmental
organization that provides agricultural direction in developing economies
and is also engaged in plantation forestry activities. oisca provides                oisca trainees and local sumitomo forestry
training in agricultural techniques such as rice farming, vegetable farming,                       representative
and breeding of domesticated animals—activities that are not destructive
like slash-and-burn farming, which is a cause of destruction of forests. the first four students sent from obt all
graduated in october 2009.




                                                               72

each division of sumitomo forestry sets priority areas and annual targets. plans and results for major activities are
detailed below.

    together with our customers

   priority areas          csr initiatives                  fy2009 results                       fy2010 plan                division

                                                myforest taiju (excellent long-term
                                                housing model project 21),
                                                myforest-bf-si (excellent long-term
                                                housing model project 21), and
                                                myforest-hokkaido (excellent              promote excellent
                     build long-lasting homes                                                                        housing division
                                                long-term housing model project 21)       long-term houses
                                                were selected by the ministry of land,
                                                infrastructure, transport and tourism
                                                (mlit)'s excellent long-term house
                                                leading model project.(p.76)

 provision of                                   achieved a rate of 70% for japanese
                     ensure sustainability of
 high-quality                                   timber used in principal structural       continue activity          housing division
                     timber used in houses
 houses with                                    members.(p.79)
 excellent overall
                                                  selected by mlit as excellent
 balance
                                                  long-term house leading model
                                                  project (renovation of existing
                                                  homes)(p.80)
                                                  received award for excellence at        provide long-term,         housing division
                     promote renovation           housing renovation contest(p.80)        high-quality houses by     and sumitomo
                     projects                     received award for excellence at        expanding the renovation   forestry home
                                                  interior coordination contest           business                   tech
                                                  2010(p.80)
                                                  renovated 200 houses built in or
                                                  before 1950 (excludes minor repairs)
                                                  (p.80)

                                                reduced repair-related costs about 9%
                                                year-on-year by reflecting the voice of   reduce repair-related      customer service
 communication       respond to opinions and
                                                the customer in improving operations      costs to less than         department /
 with customers      inquiries
                                                and products by synthesizing customer     previous fiscal year       housing division
                                                survey results.(p.84)




                                                                   73

   together with our business partners

  priority areas          csr initiatives                   fy2009 results                   fy2010 plan                division

                                                achieved 100% compliance for all
                    ensure traceability of                                                                         timber & building
                                                timber imported directly from          continue
                    timber                                                                                         materials division
                                                overseas(p.88)

                                                                                       implement training for
                    support the precut forum    reduced plant costs / supported
                                                                                       system of displaying        timber & building
                    21, a study forum for       improvement of skills for design and
                                                                                       housing functionality for   materials division
procurement of      precut factories            sales staff(p.89)
                                                                                       wooden houses
sustainable raw
materials                                                                              reflect survey results in
                                                                                       collaborative
                                                                                       relationships in fy2010
                    enhance communication       conducted surveys related to
                                                                                       and beyond                  housing division
                    with building contractors   production systems and csr(p.90)

                                                                                       continue to conduct
                                                                                       surveys




   together with our shareholders

  priority areas          csr initiatives                   fy2009 results                   fy2010 plan                division

communication                                                                                                      corporate
                    improve information         held 214 individual meetings with      continue individual
with shareholders                                                                                                  communications
                    disclosure                  investors(p.92)                        investor meetings
and investors                                                                                                      department




                                                                    74

    together with our employees

  priority areas                csr initiatives               fy2009 results                      fy2010 plan                division

                                                                                              distribution of
                                                                                              work-life balance
                                                                                              pamphlets
                       promote work styles that                                               expand telework
                                                  eight employees participated in
                       facilitate work-life                                                   program participants to
                                                  telework program(p.98)
                       balance                                                                15 employees
fostering a
                                                                                              enhance childcare /
workplace
                                                                                              elderly parent
environment
                                                                                              care-related programs
where a diverse
range of               promote programs in line     17 male employees took childcare
employees can          with the law for             leave(p.98)                             achieve 13 or more male
work energetically     measures to support the      established new system for health       employees taking
together               development of the next      management for pregnant                 childcare leave
                       generation                   employees(p.98)
                                                                                                                        personnel
                                                                                            implement training to
                                                                                                                        department
                       promote affirmative        achieved 22% share for women among        promote female
                       action                     newly hired graduates(p.98)               achievement in the
                                                                                            workplace

                       reduce long working                                                  implement labor-
                                                                      −
                       hours                                                                management committee
creation of a
workplace that is
                                                                                            implement total
safe and healthy       implement an               eliminated all smoking-allowed areas at
                                                                                            no-smoking system
                       anti-smoking program       headquarters(p.102)
                                                                                            during work hours

                                                    implemented career consultations
                                                    based on competency                       train career counselors
human resources        provide employee career
                                                    evaluations(p.103)                        implement 3r d annual
development            consultation and support
                                                    implemented 2nd annual mentoring          mentoring program
                                                    program(p.103)




    together with society

  priority areas                csr initiatives               fy2009 results                      fy2010 plan                division

                                                  a total of 573 children and students                                  corporate
                       mt. fuji manabi no mori
                                                  participated in environmental education   continue implementation     communications
                       project
                                                  programs(p.108)                                                       department

social contribution
                                                                                                                        environmental
activities utilizing
                       conduct reforestation                                                obtain united nations       solution
core businesses                                   completed reforestation of 171 ha in
                       project in bromo tengger                                             accreditation as a clean    department of the
                                                  protected forests and neighboring
                       semeru national park,                                                development mechanism       forestry &
                                                  devastated areas(p.111)
                       east java, indonesia                                                 (cdm) project               environment
                                                                                                                        division

                       kti educational            provided scholarships for 51                                          overseas business
                                                                                            continue implementation
social contribution    foundation                 recipients(p.112)                                                     division
activities outside
core businesses        contribute to public       supported high-quality housing stock
                                                                                            continue implementation     housing division
                       policy                     association(p.113)

investment to          target socially
create a               responsible investment     invested corporate pension fund assets    continue investment in      corporate pension
sustainable            (sri) through the          in sri funds(p.113)                       sri funds                   funds
society                corporate pension fund




                                                                      75

houses have a significant influence on our lives, providing a means for living and a source of personal comfort. sumitomo
forestry is helping to build a better society by providing homes where people can live for a long time with peace of mind.

    providing high-quality homes with excellent all-round balance

 building long-lasting homes
in japan, in light of the growing severity of environmental problems in recent years, along with the country's declining
birth rate and aging society, homes have come to be regarded as social assets that should be used by subsequent
generations. compared to houses in european countries, which last an average of about 100 years, houses in japan
typically have a life span of only about 30 years, and consequently, the continuous rebuilding has a serious environmental
impact.

sumitomo forestry believes that popularizing excellent long-term houses that become social assets is vital for creating a
prosperous society. as such, the company is promoting the following four policies to extend the life of houses:

   make houses more reliable by improving their basic functions
   create comfortable living environments
   increase future options for layout to accommodate changes in lifestyles
   enhance maintenance programs to support long-term upkeep

the japanese government implemented the excellent long-term housing promotion act in june 2009, issuing clear
guidelines emphasizing the importance of excellent houses and their maintenance for long-term occupancy. building
houses certified as “excellent long-term houses” not only reduces the costs incurred with repeated rebuilding, but also
reduces waste generation and environmental impact. in the long-term, such houses foster more prosperous lives.

as part of these measures, the ministry of land, infrastructure, transport and tourism (mlit) is promoting its ultra-
long-life house leading model project. sumitomo forestry submitted its houses to the first model project and
succeeded in having three of its ultra-long-life models chosen for the project. in fiscal 2009, the myforest taiju(excellent
long-term housing model project 21), myforest-bf-si (excellent long-term housing model project 21), and myforest-
hokkaido specification (excellent long-term housing model project 21) were selected as excellent long-term house
leading model projects, and as such are eligible for subsidies to cover part of the construction costs.

                             i would like to see sumitomo forestry contribute to reforms in housing assessment practices, including the
                             implementation of a tax system similar to that in the united states, so that prime housing stock becomes a
                             social asset in japan as well. (ngo)
                             i expect sumitomo forestry to promote the introduction of natural energy as well as long-lasting houses with
                             reduced chemical substances and improved earthquake resistance. (citizen)



 improving durability
sumitomo forestry has set a minimum expected service life1 of 75 years for principal structural members to ensure that
the houses it builds are highly durable and can be passed down over three generations. standard specifications for the
structural framework are set at level 3—the highest level—for evaluations based on the japanese housing performance
indication system with respect to alleviated deterioration.

1 the number of years a material or component is expected to function as originally intended, assuming a certain level of maintenance
  (including regular inspections) as envisaged by sumitomo forestry.

                         i would like to see sumitomo forestry design houses that last a long time. (consumer behavior analyst)



 disaster preparedness
a home's resistance to earthquakes, wind and fire is an important element in protecting its residents and their property
in the event of a fire or natural disaster such as an earthquake or destructive typhoon.

sumitomo forestry uses the following three construction methods to ensure a strong structural framework.

                                                                    76

   multi-balance construction method, incorporating a post-and-beam framework with integrated panels to minimize
   deformation and torsion of the structure due to a major earthquake or typhoon.
   big frame construction method, providing superior seismic and wind resistance by connecting big columns and beams
   using high-strength bf metal joints.
   two-by-four construction method, in which the structure is built using diaphragm components-frames constructed
   from structural materials faced with structural plywood-resulting in an excellent balance of resistance to earthquakes
   and strong wind.

in terms of a fire-resistant structure, standard specifications for sumitomo forestry houses include an external wall
structure that can withstand fire for 30 minutes. this can be increased to 45 or 60 minutes depending on the building
size, regulations governing the specific building location, and customer preference. in october 2009, structures using the
multi-balance and the big frame construction method were certified as government regulated semi-fireproof
construction houses by the japan housing finance agency. all of the company’s housing product lines, including the
previously certified two-by-four construction method comply with this fire resistance standard. in fiscal 2009,
approximately 2,300 houses were built to these specifications, which employ a “fire stop” structure that strengthens
the ceiling’s fire prevention shield and prevents the rapid spread of fire within rooms. thus, it is now possible to enjoy
both increased fire resistance and the advantages of wood construction houses with traditional japanese walls, posts,
and beams.

to prepare for an earthquake, flood or other natural disaster, disaster response teams are stationed at local sumitomo
forestry branches to rapidly repair affected houses and take other measures of support to respond to customers'
concerns.


houses designed to prevent crime
in its scrupulous attention to the details of its custom-built houses, sumitomo forestry proposes crime prevention
measures from the site survey and design stage.


enhancement of the long-term support system
in order to help our customers live comfortably in their houses for as long as possible, sumitomo forestry offers its
long-term support system, providing maintenance support for 60 years after a house is handed over to its owner.

long-term support system
   the expected service life of principal structural members is at least 75 years
   the service life for each material is determined and houses are designed to facilitate inspection, repair and
   replacement
   regular inspections are carried out over 60 years
   maintenance programs including renovations are proposed and maintenance records kept
   proposals from the design stage are offered to allow for future changes in the life stages of the occupants
   customer support center and call center: available 24 hours/day, 365 days/year.

the long-term support system offers a standard 10-year warranty, which can be extended up to 20 or 30 years on the
structural frame and waterproofing, as long as fee-based maintenance work judged necessary by the company, such as
anti-pest treatment in the 10th year, is performed.

the optional ls20 excellent long-term model house offers a 20-year warranty for water resistance because highly
durable materials are used for the external walls, veranda, flat roof, etc., at the time of construction, making fee-based
maintenance in the 10th year unnecessary in most cases. in fiscal 2009, when excellent long-term housing promotion
act came into effect we introduced a 30-year warranty, the ls30 excellent long-term model house.


                      i want sumitomo forestry to use its position as a housing manufacturer and builder to continue making attractive
                      houses as the years go by, and also expand its service business to provide more comfortable living environments.
                      (ngo)




                                                                77

  long-term support system




pursuing universal design
sumitomo forestry offers houses that integrate universal design as the foundation for safe, comfortable and enjoyable
living for all family members.

spatial configuration and traffic-flow planning are tailored to the family's lifestyle, dimensional planning is designed to
enable smooth and strain-free movement and positions, while handrails and other materials are intended to prevent
accidents. these improvements are constantly refined by test results from human lifestyle engineering work at the
tsukuba research institute in japan.

sumitomo forestry has organized internal universal design working groups since 2003, and carries out research at the
universal design house in the tsukuba research institute. in addition, the company raises awareness of the universal
design concept among employees by having them stay at the universal design house and encouraging them to apply
what they learn from this experience in their daily work.

in fiscal 2009, two renovations carried out by sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. won awards in the fourth annual
housing barrier-free competition, sponsored by the tokyo metropolitan housing barrier-free promotion council. these
renovations, which drew on our accumulated expertise in custom-built houses, earned high praise for their designs that
enabled both caregivers and elderly people to live in security, and environments to be tailored to family lifestyles to allow
each member to live comfortably and securely.

  sumitomo forestry universal design




                                                              78

 adherence to housing performance indication system
the japanese housing performance indication system provides a highly reliable and objective evaluation by a third-party
expert so that the customer can assess the quality and performance of a house. the system comprises ten evaluation
items, including structural stability, fire safety, durability, and energy efficiency.

sumitomo forestry actively promotes this system because it ensures safe and reliable houses, as well as raises their
asset value. in fiscal 2009, 97%1 of the company's properties were evaluated for their design performance. customers
were also recommended to acquire construction performance evaluations.

1 this rate pertains to all houses constructed, including additions and remodeling, whereas the housing performance indication system only
  applies to new construction.


 timber used for housing
sumitomo forestry adheres to its timber procurement philosophy and
policy with the conviction that it should procure the timber it uses to build
houses from forests that are managed according to sustainable methods.

following the attainment of sustainable green ecosystem council (sgec)1
certification of its company- owned forests in japan, in fiscal 2007
sumitomo forestry obtained chain of custody (coc)2 certification for its
handling of sgec certified timber products from the stages of distribution
and processing through house construction. coc certification recognizes
that the company separates sgec-certified timber from other timber at
every step, from storage and timber processing to distribution.                   sgec-certified timber used in housing
furthermore, the certification represents a third-party verification that
sumitomo forestry uses certified timber in its houses. sumitomo forestry was the first major housing manufacturer in
japan to earn both certifications.

“use of certified timber” is labeled on all of the company's standard engineered studs used in sumitomo ringyo no ie
(sumitomo forestry home) houses in hokkaido, indicating that these houses are made of japanese larch grown in
hokkaido.

sumitomo forestry promotes the use of japanese timber in the houses it builds, and in fiscal 2009 achieved a usage rate
of 70% for its principal structural members.

1 the sustainable green ecosystem council is japan's own forestry certification system, in which third parties verify
sustainable forest management. certification is based on seven standards, including the preservation of biodiversity and
the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources.
2 chain of custody (coc) certification is given to businesses that separate and label forest products from certified
forests in the storage, processing and distribution processes.

                         i would like sumitomo forestry to leverage its role as an industry leader to promote the use of japanese timber in
                         the interest of curbing global warming and cultivating water resources. (ngo)




   using japanese timber in homes(p.146)




 dedication to wooden homes
japan is blessed with abundant forest resources, and wooden homes have been built in the country from ancient times.
natural wood not only creates a calm ambience, but also embodies a variety of qualities that facilitate comfortable living
throughout the seasons. sumitomo forestry takes advantage of the natural appeal of wood, focusing on harmony with
nature in sumitomo forestry home houses to create its myforest brand. the company actively uses japanese-grown
cypress trees for the posts and other structural members of these homes. using timber grown in japan revitalizes the
domestic forestry industry, thereby protecting the nation's forests against degradation. aspiring to offer homes that
provide people with comfortable living and enjoyment of the changing seasons, sumitomo forestry applies its
ryouonbou design concept that incorporates traditional approaches to using natural light, ventilation and greenery.




                                                                    79

henley properties group(http://www.henley.com.au/), one of australia's premier homebuilders, joined the sumitomo
forestry group in september 2009 and is developing house models featuring designs with the aesthetic quality of wood
found in sumitomo forestry home. henley properties group is also using environmentally friendly timber and building
materials produced by the group and developing new construction methods to improve energy conservation and
construction-process efficiency.

                          i think that wood should be used not only for structural members, but also for the parts of a house that
                          residents actually touch, such as walls and ceilings, so that the warmth of wood can be appreciated.
                          (customer)
                          i would like sumitomo forestry to offer traditional japanese homes that feature the gleaming black beams
                          typical of old townhouses. (customer)
                          i think sumitomo forestry is the most wood-focused house maker. trees are essential to human life and i
                          would like to see more sumitomo forestry homes in town. (customer)



multi-unit residential building initiatives
sumitomo forestry builds multi-unit residential buildings using two-by-four construction, which offers superior seismic
resistance and durability, big frame construction method utilizing the company's proprietary wooden beam rahmen
structure, and rc construction using steel-reinforced concrete.

the company's multi-unit residences built with the two-by-four construction method perform exceptionally well in terms
of fire resistance, sound insulation, wind resistance, and insulation and air-tightness, as verified by the japan 2x4 home
builders association. in addition, these residences are designed to maximize the use of available space. representative of
sumitomo forestry, the interiors of these residential buildings are made with wood, and provide comfortable living
spaces with unique textures and colors that comfort the mind and body.

in january 2010, sumitomo forestry launched the bf-maison line of environmentally sound rental housing using its
original big frame construction method. these apartment buildings are the first constructed using the big frame
construction method and offer high seismic resistance, durability, insulation, and air-tightness, providing residents with
comfort and a sense of security. since the structural elements, interiors, and fittings are designed separately, it is easy
to freely place walls and open space, and can be renovated to suit changes in the neighboring environment, as well as a
diverse range of needs. this results in not only reduced initial investment in construction costs but also realizes
comparatively simple renovation, and makes possible long-term stable rental management and long life of the structure
itself.

rc construction provides high quality that can be maintained for a long period of time, which preserves high asset value.
in addition, this construction method enables floor plans that create new lifestyle concepts, as well as land plans that
connect residents and streets, making possible a more abundant lifestyle. construction of the house kohoku
tsunashima, which was designed on the theme of connections between people, cities, and nature, will be completed in
august 2010 in yokohama, kanagawa prefecture. as part of the initiative to create new networks between cities and
nature, the complex features an urban & farming exchange program to facilitate interaction between the people and
culture of the southern boso peninsula. featuring undeveloped woodlands, experiential farming, handicrafts, and dyeing
using plant-based dyes, the program will create a nexus for interaction between urban and natural environments.


promoting renovation projects
sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd., a group company specializing in renovation work, offers renovation proposals
to extend the life and comfort of houses that have exceeded the average service life of modern japanese houses,
considered to be about 30 years. based on its expertise in wooden housing, the sumitomo forestry group employs
technological and design skills to enhance structural safety, and uses high-quality wood to create a warmer atmosphere.

about 40% of existing detached wooden houses are considered to be insufficiently earthquake resistant, and therefore
require seismic upgrading to ensure security for their occupants. to address this need, sumitomo forestry home tech
and the tsukuba research institute have jointly developed five proprietary technologies for greater earthquake
resistance: portal frame shear walls, glass block shear walls, the sumirin arc construction method and sumirin jem
construction method, all of which have successfully passed technical evaluation by the japan building disaster prevention
association, and special tough panels that have been approved by the ministry of land, infrastructure, transport and
tourism (mlit). the portal frame shear walls, sumirin arc construction method, synthetic adhesive beams, and special
tough panels are all patented, and the company has patents pending on other technologies as well.

developed using lessons learned from case studies of old wooden houses pulling away from their foundations during a
major earthquake, the sumirin jem construction method is a technology that reinforces the interconnection of posts, the
foundation and base by using epoxy resin adhesive to affix specially designed hardware to the surface of the existing
foundation and attaching it securely using a hole-down bolt. the development of this technology reduces construction
time, and provides the customer with a secure and pleasant renovated house. in recognition of the company's unique

                                                                  80

survey system, which is accurate and efficient, and original renovation technologies that enable reduction of cost and
shortening of construction time, sumitomo forestry's proposal for a full renovation of an existing wooden house was
selected for mlit's excellent long-term house leading model project in the existing house renovation category in may
2009, as it also was in fiscal 2008.

maintaining historical structures for future generations is important to protecting valuable social
assets. in october 2008, sumitomo forestry home tech published a book entitled renovations
bringing wisdom from the past to tomorrow: technology to utilize wooden homes in the
future. this book introduces examples of historic houses that have been renovated and
cutting-edge technologies for earthquake resistance to commemorate the 20th anniversary of
the company's founding. in april 2010, the second edition was published.

the company is strengthening training programs aiming to improve employees' ability to
propose new ideas and their technological expertise in order to meet the needs of each and
every homeowner. as a result, the company's case study of renovation of a 100-year-old house
won an award of excellence in the house renovation contest sponsored by the center for                renovations bringing
housing renovation and dispute settlement support. further, the company's case study of the           wisdom from the past
renovation of a 150-year-old house has won an award of excellence in the presentation category            to tomorrow:
of the interior coordination contest 2010, held by the japan interior industry association.             rehabilitation of
                                                                                                      traditional japanese
in fiscal 2009, the company worked on approximately 200 renovation projects (excluding minor           houses to meet the
                                                                                                      needs of the people
repairs) involving houses constructed in or after 1950, the year the building standards act was
                                                                                                        who live in them
promulgated. the renovation of old houses requires a high degree of specialist expertise as the
deterioration can be quite advanced. sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. will continue to
leverage its specialist knowledge gained from its abundant expertise to provide high-quality homes that last for decades.




                                                            81

preserving the quality of traditional japanese houses

“passed down from our ancestors, and filled with our memories, i want to make this house into a strong structure
and pass it down to future generations.” the renovation of a 100-year-old home in nara city, nara prefecture,
gave shape to this customer's dream.

the framework of the house was lifted up with jacks so that work could be done on the foundation. the original
posts and beams were preserved, while optimal seismic reinforcement was completed using traditional japanese
techniques. uneven surfaces were leveled and humidity countermeasures implemented, eliminating inconveniences
for daily life as well as improving the environment for storing precious documents and artwork.



   comments from the renovation engineer
   when explaining seismic reinforcement for traditional japanese
   homes to a customer, the content of the explanation will always be
   technical in nature. so we always go beyond just showing the design
   blueprints—we always show perspective drawings and present
   examples of previous projects the company has worked on, to
   make the explanation both accurate and easy to understand.
   customers are especially anxious about foundation work, when we
   raise the framework off the ground using jacks. we always show
   photographs of actual projects, and take the time to explain the
   process and situation of the construction in a polite way to put
   customers at ease.



                                                                                      kenji shimomura
                                                                                    renovation engineer
                                                                            sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd.




   comments from the customer
   during construction, i never hesitated to say what i wanted to be preserved. i may have asked for too much,
   but the sumitomo forestry home tech team always listened to what i said. i'm pretty sure they struggled
   with some of my requests. i'm completely satisfied because our family can sit together around the
   wood-fired stove and with the overall sense of security i feel throughout the house.




                  the k family residence in nara,                  the k family residence in nara,
                        before renovation                                 after renovation




                                                       82

   traditional japanese home renovation permanent exhibition at a registered
   tangible cultural property

   the fujioka family residence in gojo city, nara prefecture is an edo period village headman's house and the
   birthplace of fujioka gyokkotsu, who shared close friendships with noted haiku poets, including yosano akiko. the
   ten structures, including the main wing of the house built in 1882, were opened to the general public as registered
   tangible cultural properties in 2008. sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. provides support to uchino-
   no-yakata, a non-profit organization that manages the fujioka family residence, and also renovated a rice
   warehouse to house the traditional japanese house rehabilitation research institute, as a space to explain
   rehabilitation of traditional japanese houses. this permanent exhibition opened in march 2010 and explains ways
   to preserve the beauty of traditional japanese houses while utilizing them for modern lifestyles.




    promoting communication with customers

striving for customer satisfaction
sumitomo forestry's basic philosophy is “putting customers first.” the core of the company's business is providing
high-quality housing and services that satisfy the customer. our objective is to meet all of our customers' expectations
over their house's lifetime, from design to maintenance, and to bring the number of dissatisfied customers down to zero.

to achieve this, sumitomo forestry listens to its customers as much as possible, while continuously striving to instill the
attitude of putting the customer first among all employees through a wide range of education, training and ongoing
study programs.


responding to comments and requests for consultation

24-hour, 365-day support through customer support centers and call center

sumitomo forestry places strong emphasis on its
after-sales support after a house has been handed over to
its new owners in order to ensure that its customers are
secure and comfortable in their homes.

customer support centers specializing in after-sales
support accept requests for consultation and repairs and
maintenance. a dedicated call center is also available to
take calls at night and on holidays. these two centers
function together to ensure that after-sales support staff is
standing by 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.

in april 2009, sumitomo forestry established the owners
support group in locations around japan to provide
sumitomo forestry home owners with after-sales support
and consultations on house renovating, rebuilding and
replacement. with this addition, the sumitomo forestry
group is able to respond to a wide range of requests
regarding its houses and home lifestyles.




                                                                               number of call center consultations




                                                            83

satisfaction no.1 working group activities
sumitomo forestry set up the satisfaction no.1 working group in april 2007 to reduce the number of dissatisfied
customers and improve the company's ability to put the customer first. this effort takes the emphasis on putting the
customer first to a new level. at the same time, an integrated groupware management system was established to
expedite responses.

comprised of members from the customer service department and the housing division, the satisfaction no.1 working
group formulates various themes and works to make improvements. in fiscal 2009, it identified areas for improvement
based on the results of a customer survey, then devised countermeasures and prioritized measures to address concerns
of residents living near construction sites. the satisfaction no.1 working group also created a tool to explain important
issues to customers when contracts are signed, and revised the form used to record meetings.

as a result of these measures, unaddressed complaints have declined by half since the system was launched in march
2007, and repair-related costs fell by about 9% in fiscal 2009 compared to the previous fiscal year.

the ultimate goal of the satisfaction no.1 working group is to reduce complaints from unsatisfied customers to zero.
the company has set the target of reducing repair-related costs to below that of the previous fiscal year, and will
intensify its efforts to earn the trust of customers and ensure their satisfaction.


regular survey implementation
to accurately assess its customers' views, sumitomo forestry administers a survey at the time owners move in, and in
their second and tenth years of occupancy. the survey includes detailed questions on home design, building materials,
equipment and fixtures, sumitomo forestry staff attitudes and responses, and other issues. sumitomo forestry
tabulates these results every year to make improvements in the future. moreover, the customer is given a postcard
questionnaire at the end of each after-sales maintenance visit or inspection requesting feedback on subjects such as the
maintenance contractors' attitude and behavior, response speed, and repair techniques.


keeping customers informed
even after new houses are handed over to customers, sumitomo forestry continues to provide useful tips on
maintenance and lifestyle. this is part of the company's commitment to maintaining close communication with its
customers and supporting their lifestyles.

one of the company's communication tools is club forest, a special web
site that homeowners of sumitomo forestry-built homes can register to
use. the site offers information on a range of subjects, such as gardening
and interior decoration, and can also be used to request repairs and
maintenance. requests submitted via the web site are answered with a
return telephone call from customer support centers during regular
business hours. the web site has about 27,000 registered members to
date.




                                                                                 club forest, the special web site for owners of
                                                                                           sumitomo forestry houses

another communication tool is sumitomo forestry's home and lifestyle magazine, suteki-na
kazoku, which is sent out to homeowners twice per year. the magazine features a variety of
lifestyle-related information, as well as details about group company activities such as
remodeling and utilization of land. print runs for each issue were about 210,000 in fiscal 2009.




                                                                                                           home and lifestyle
                                                                                                           magazine suteki-na
                                                                                                                 kazoku




                                                            84

                      i would like sumitomo forestry to maintain regular communication with consumers and customers. (management-
                      related csr expert)



standards for advertising
sumitomo forestry thoroughly checks its advertising so as not to convey uncertain or misleading information, and also
strives for strict compliance with relevant legislation including the japanese building lots and buildings transaction
business law, act against unjustifiable premiums and misleading representations, and copyright act. there were no
material violations in advertising in fiscal 2009, as in past years.

                      companies must provide consumers with accurate information and appropriately communicate their goals. (ngo)




    property development programs

property development policy
sumitomo forestry is committed to property development that provides attractive communities where families can raise
healthy children. the company also devises building site plans that encourage communication between residents so that
people of all ages can live together with enjoyment and comfort.


property development in tune with neighborhoods
when sumitomo forestry plans a new property development, it aims for congruency with the surrounding neighborhoods
and communication with residents in its efforts to create an attractive property. the company surveys the scenery and
history of the surrounding area, plans suitable house exteriors, makes constructive use of local materials, and designs
houses that facilitate communication.

when building forest garden kamishidami, located in aichi prefecture,
sumitomo forestry used survey results to select colors for external walls
that would fit in well with the adjacent land and buildings environment and
integrate with the street. trees that complement every season were
planted, and attention was given to the overall balance of the street,
housing lots, building placement, height of trees, and density of foliage.
for its forest garden kozoji, sumitomo forestry built housing exteriors
using local materials, including hazu stones produced in the tokai region
for the retaining walls, and bricks made in the ceramic-production center
of mino. the stones, which have a long history in the region, will acquire a
patina as years go by, adding to asset value, while the natural elements
and greenery were chosen to harmonize with the overall neighborhood. in                           forest garden kamishidami
addition, benches placed next to the building's entrance are becoming
places where local residents gather to talk and relax.


forest garden izumisano in osaka was designed with housing exteriors
that would blend in with the quiet and green surroundings. a corner tree
about five meters high was placed at the town's gate, and landmark trees
about four meters tall were placed by each house to prominently display
the greenery. locally procured stones have been effectively placed, as
with a retaining wall made of ikoma stones.

cul-de-sacs were used to separate the site, with roads in the
neighborhood unable to pass through the division, enhancing the safety of
pedestrians. the houses were situated to ensure privacy while allowing
natural light to enter all of the houses, creating a pleasant atmosphere for
                                                                                                   forest garden izumisano
daily life.


                      i would like sumitomo forestry to build houses that enhance the landscapes of their surrounding areas. (ngo)




                                                                85

property development in harmony with nature
sumitomo forestry uses the ryouonbou design concept to provide comfortable houses that harness the forces of
nature. this design concept is also used in property development to propose environmentally sound housing that
coexists harmoniously with nature.

forest garden toyosatodai in tochigi prefecture uses the ryouonbou design concept in all of its neighborhoods.
sumitomo forestry endeavored to create a neighborhood that is friendly to both people and the environment by
incorporating the natural forces of the sun, wind and greenery into the design and considering the sunshine and natural
airflow in the houses. landmark trees were situated to provide relief from the summer heat, and a garden zone was
created to block the sun and create a cool spot in the neighborhood. grass was planted in two-car parking spots to ease
the glare.

                         sumitomo forestry should utilize green-scaping technology widely, for example in its community
                         development. (business partner)
                         although the environment must be considered, i would like sumitomo forestry to also consider urban property
                         development that expresses the particular characteristics of japan. (research and educational organization)



property development compatible with an aging society
as the population of elderly people in japan continues to rise each year,
the dawn of an aging society is upon us. sumitomo forestry is entering the
elder care field to provide elders with facilities where they can enjoy life
every day.

fil care co., ltd., a group company, operates a total of ten private-pay
elderly care facilities, having opened grand forest kobe rokkodo
(nada-ku, kobe city) in april 2010 and grand forest shiinamachi
(toshima-ku, tokyo) in may 2010, joining previously opened grand forest
shizuoka aoi-no-mori (aoi-ku, shizuoka city) and grand forest hikawadai
(nerima-ku, tokyo).

fil care co., ltd. is expanding its businesses in residential housing for                   grand forest shiinamachi
elders, operating elder care facilities, and related services to meet the
needs of society as the population ages. under the motto, care with a human touch, fil care aspires to create senior
lifestyles filled with abundance through the provision of high-quality and attentive care to each and every resident,
supporting their independence, so elders can enjoy a lively day every day.




    promoting housing distribution

participation in the jti project
to create rich and varied living environments, sumitomo forestry recognizes the importance of raising the value of
housing assets, improving the overall quality of society's housing stock, and facilitating the purchase of secondhand
housing.

for this reason, along with its ongoing efforts to supply high-value homes, in december 2006 sumitomo forestry
became a supporting corporate participant in the japan trans-housing institute (jti). set up as a joint venture by the
ministry of land, infrastructure, transport and tourism and private-sector companies, this non-profit public corporation
administers the public-sector support system for the rental housing market. introduced in fiscal 2006, this program
provides guaranteed agreements to rent and transplant homes belonging to people whose children have grown up, and
subletting those homes to families with young children.

by participating in this program, sumitomo forestry hopes to enhance its after-sales support and advisory capabilities
for homes and lifestyle, develop derivative businesses such as secondhand home provision and home renovation, and
collect information on diversifying lifestyles and homes.

currently, sumitomo forestry provides information on this new system to customers living in sumitomo forestry home
houses in the greater tokyo area, which includes kanagawa, chiba and saitama prefectures.




                                                               86

sumitomo forestry works with its building contractors and timber and building material suppliers to reduce
environmental impact and improve their occupational health and safety management.

    providing high-quality timber and building materials
sumitomo forestry group companies manufacturing wood building materials both in japan and overseas carry out
programs to ensure that their timber and building materials are of the highest quality.

sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. became the group's largest integrated manufacturer of wood building materials in
april 2010 through a merger with the former toyo plywood co., ltd. (previously a group company).

sumitomo forestry crest aims to be the preeminent integrated manufacturer of wood building materials, fusing both
marketability and creativity. all seven plants operated by sumitomo forestry crest have acquired iso 9001 certification
for quality management for their strict quality control systems.

using a quality information management system that quickly reflects customer opinions and complaints back to each
plant, the number of complaints received in fiscal 2009 was reduced to two-thirds the level recorded in the previous
year.

sumitomo forestry also promotes the acquisition of jis, jas and iso certification by group companies outside japan. in
2003, a medium-density fiberboard plant operated by new zealand affiliate nelson pine industries ltd. (npil)
(http://www.nelsonpine.co.nz/) became the first in the oceania region to obtain jis certification for fiberboard. in march
2007, pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi) received the first-ever jis certification acquired by a particle board plant in
indonesia. rpi has a high share of indonesia's market, and its acquisition of jis certification assures customers of the
reliability of its high-quality products, such as those carrying the f☆☆☆☆ designation that indicates reduced levels of
formaldehyde emission.

in may 2008, npil acquired new jis mark certification, followed by alpine mdf industries (alpine
mdf)(http://www.alpinemdf.com.au/) in september 2008.

in order to comply with air pollution regulations in the united states, four group companies have acquired the california
air resource board (carb) certification: npil in october 2008, followed by alpine mdf in january 2009, rpi in february
2009, and kutai timber indonesia (kti)(http://www.kti.co.id/) in november 2009.



    procuring sustainable raw materials

green procurement guidelines and timber procurement standards
sumitomo forestry strives to prevent environmental pollution, reduce environmental impact, and develop a recycling-
oriented society, with a commitment to its environmental philosophy of "contributing to society through the vigorous
pursuit of business operations in harmony with conservation principles." in line with these principles, the company gives
preference in its purchases of goods and services to business partners that have established their own green
procurement guidelines and timber procurement standards, and that work to reduce their environmental impact. in june
2007, sumitomo forestry finalized and announced its timber procurement philosophy and policy, formulated to help the
company verify the legal compliance of the timber it handles and improve traceability.

in accordance with these principles, sumitomo forestry plans to reinforce its system for collaboration on environmental
issues in two ways: evaluating business partners' environmental conservation efforts, and assessing products based on
the evaluation standards.




                                                           87

          green procurement guidelines

     1. reduction of the use of substances or emissions that affect the environment or human health
     2. reduced consumption of energy resources
     3. use of materials from forests managed in a legal and sustainable manner
     4. usability over the long term
     5. suitability for recycling
     6. use of recyclable materials and reusable components
     7. ease of proper treatment or disposal at end of life cycle




    revised action plans based on timber procurement philosophy and policy(p.24)


    promoting the use of timber from sustainable forests(p.149)




 ensuring traceability of timber
sumitomo forestry procures timber and timber products from around the world. to ensure that it does not handle
illegally logged timber, the company examines all of its suppliers of timber and timber products for legal compliance.
sumitomo forestry dispatches managers and local representatives to logging sites as necessary to enhance the
reliability of its verification of legal compliance.

during the three years from 2007 to 2009, the company conducted investigations of all of its overseas suppliers of
directly imported timber based on its timber procurement standards. the results confirmed that all of these suppliers of
timber and building materials were in compliance.

sumitomo forestry continues to advance its efforts to use certified timber. to expand the volume of certified timber
used by sumitomo forestry, in fiscal 2006 the forest products trading department and the building materials
department of the timber & building materials division acquired forest stewardship council (fsc)1 chain of custody
(coc) certification, followed in september 2008 by coc certification from the programme for the endorsement of
forest certification (pefc)2

in fiscal 2006, all company-owned forests in japan were certified by the sustainable green ecosystem council (sgec),
which confirms that forests are sustainably managed based on assessments by third parties. in fiscal 2007, the housing
division also received sgec separation and labeling certification, verifying that the timber used in the company's houses
is from certified forests. sumitomo forestry has acquired certification for all processes in its forestry business, from
forest management to distribution and house construction. with these certifications, the company has completed its
system for ensuring that its timber has high traceability and comes from certified forests.

1 the fsc is a third-party organization that provides a global forest certification system. its forest management (fm) certification
  authenticates forest management, while fsc coc certification confirms that forest products from certified forests are appropriately
  separated and marked in the storage, processing and distribution processes.
2 the pefc is a forest certification program that promotes sustainable forest management by offering certification from third parties
  independent of stakeholders.

  sources of imported timber and wood products (based on figures provided to the japan lumber importers' association)




                                                                     88

expanding timber procurement from company-owned plantation forests

   providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests(p.21)            sustainability of timber resources(p.142)




    communication with business partners

the sumirin-kai: a forum for communication with timber and building materials
suppliers
sumitomo forestry sponsors the sumirin-kai, an organization that serves
as a forum for communication with regional suppliers of timber and
building materials. training sessions and information exchange meetings
are held at various locations, allowing members to deepen mutual
friendships, promote product r&d, enhance production and distribution,
and support improvements in the industry as a whole. as of january 2010,
the sumirin-kai had 887 registered members from all areas of japan.




                                                                                                   general meeting of the sumirin-kai


                         i would like to see sumitomo forestry take a more prominent stance, given its position as a leader in the industry.
                         i would also like the company to make recommendations regarding how we suppliers can contribute. (business
                         partner)



precut forum 21: a study forum for precut factories
founded as an industry organization in 1997, precut forum 21 comprises a nationwide network that aims to improve the
quality and productivity of precut1 plants that process timber in advance of construction, as well as to develop the
businesses of its members.

as the managing company, sumitomo forestry is actively involved in administering this forum, and has hosted various
programs, including iso seminars for companies interested in acquiring iso 9001 series certification, study tours of
manufacturers in other industries, study sessions on the proper handling of industrial waste, and seminars on business
opportunities utilizing japanese timber. in fiscal 2009, training sessions in applying for excellent long-term housing status
were conducted. sumitomo forestry will continue to provide support for cost-cutting at plants and improved design and
marketing skills.

1 “precut” is a production system for construction whereby advanced cad/cam technology is used for high-precision processing of
  timber, which is subsequently taken to construction sites and assembled. this method is in contrast to the traditional carpentry method
  involving on-site cutting and planing the wood by hand.


partnership with members of the inos group
in order to provide reliable and safe housing for its customers, sumitomo forestry maintains close partnerships with
construction companies and their agents throughout japan. the company established the inos group to share its
extensive expertise developed over many years and to implement its warrantee system. as of march 2010, the number
of members stood at 314. a general meeting is held once a year to further communication between members and share
objectives.

as members of the inos group, local construction companies are eligible to use construction technology and quality-
guaranteed building materials provided by sumitomo forestry. the member companies can also take advantage of
sumitomo forestry's computers and systems to make structural calculations and estimates, and efficiently issue
construction completion guarantees and warranties against defects in housing. this enables local inos group members
to respond to their customers as trustworthy members of the local community, and also provide the safety and reliability
made possible by sumitomo forestry's expertise.

in fiscal 2009, the inos group's “simple long-term housing project 2009” was selected as an excellent long-term
house leading model project by the ministry of land, infrastructure, transport, and tourism. construction of “simple
tone: housing for the five senses” homes from this series has begun around japan. further, 156 homes qualified for
subsidies under the fiscal 2009 excellent long-term housing promotion program.


                                                                    89

supporting members in all respects, the group provides the latest information related to new opportunities, such as the
eco-point system for housing and promotion of wooden homes initiatives.

in fiscal 2009, members of the inos group built 1,052 houses (as of march 2010). in fiscal 2010, the member
companies are aiming to construct 1,200 new houses and also increase efforts in renovation.

 plans for simple tone: housing for the five senses, a stylish modern design for a “perfectly square” home.




publication of building materials monthly
sumitomo forestry publishes building materials monthly, an informational magazine for
purchasers and sellers of building materials, with a monthly circulation of about 5,000.
with a history spanning more than 45 years since its establishment in 1964, the
magazine underwent a significant redesign from the april 2010 issue, aiming to
“inspire everyone involved in the timber and building materials industry” through the
timely publishing of related news and topics such as “the housing eco-point system,”
“eco-housing,” and “housing starts statistical data.”




                                                                                                              building materials monthly



communication with building contractors
sound relationships of trust and cooperation with building contractors are essential to sumitomo forestry's business
development.

in order to create stronger partnerships, sumitomo forestry runs the nationwide association of sumitomo forestry safe
building contractors. it provides information to improve building contractors' technical skill levels and management of
construction, considers operational problems with contractor representatives, and presents awards for excellence to
outstanding site managers and carpenters.

to gain an accurate understanding of the issues and problems faced by building contractors, sumitomo forestry
conducted the survey on production systems and csr in fiscal 2009, with 81.6% of building contractors responding.
this questionnaire was designed to identify weaknesses and flaws in sumitomo forestry's standards and plans, as well as
facilitate improvements in operations, safety and technical capabilities. it was also useful in familiarizing employees of
sumitomo forestry's building contractors with the concepts underlying csr, which advocates business based on social
ethics. these concepts encompass strict legal compliance, environmental conservation, respect for human rights, and
contributions to local communities.

in october 2009, the results of the fiscal 2009 and 2008 questionnaires were presented to the matsu association of
building contractors, an annual social gathering of superior building contractor partners, serving to heighten
consciousness of csr among the building contractors.

many building contractors face a shortage of skilled labor and aging among their craftsmen, making cooperation and
support in the training of a new generation of builders essential to ensure production capacity in the future. the
sumitomo forestry school of professional building techniques, founded in 1988, offers a one-year carpentry course for
people wanting to work for sumitomo forestry, as well as five- to ten-day elementary and intermediate level training

                                                                  90

courses offered on the behalf of building contractors. such measures support human resource development in this
industry.

                         i expect sumitomo forestry to increase its communications with building contractors, and disseminate
                         information on its initiatives that deal with environmental problems. (research and education organization)



improving quality and workplace safety at housing construction sites
based on sumitomo forestry's own health and safety management guidelines and with the cooperation of building
contractors, the company is working to eliminate work-related accidents, including construction site accidents caused
by falls and slipping, heavy machinery, or power tools.

in fiscal 2009, the company set forth the basic principle of prevention of industrial accidents through comprehensive
implementation of risk assessment, with three priority areas: (1) strict compliance with the industrial safety and health
act; (2) prevention of industrial accidents; and (3) comprehensive self-management, with consideration given to
previous years' industrial accidents, status of industry safety and health promotion initiatives, and compliance with
related laws and ordinances. targets and action plans for each division and department have been developed.

the environment & safety division of the housing division participated in the monthly workplace health and safety
meetings held at each branch, and is strengthening its role in providing direction and education for all aspects of safety
management. in order to ensure smooth implementation of initiatives to comply with the revised ordinance on industrial
safety and hygiene for construction sites using scaffolding, the company conducted sampling surveys at construction
sites alongside the project manager from the scaffolding construction contractor. this enabled the company to provide
direction and ensure consistent standards, with the results contributing to a reduction in industrial accidents.

in addition, training sessions are held to promote greater safety and higher quality at every local chapter of the
association of sumitomo forestry safe building contractors.

  number of work-related accidents (requiring at least four days off work) at building contractor locations




zero emissions efforts in cooperation with waste treatment contractors
the sumitomo forestry group established a goal of 98% recycling of industrial waste from production plants, new
housing construction sites and other locations by march 2010, and all divisions, including affiliates, have worked to
achieve zero waste emissions. collaboration between internal divisions is also essential to these efforts, and the same is
true of building contractors engaged in on-site sorting of waste and intermediate treatment contractors consigned with
industrial waste processing. reduction of industrial waste generated in house construction work is not an issue that can
be resolved solely at construction sites, but also requires a reassessment at all stages, including technological
development, materials procurement, production and waste processing, in order to curb the generation of industrial
waste.

   zero emissions(p.138)




                                                                    91

sumitomo forestry works to ensure a high level of transparency in management and proactive disclosure of information
to build trust with shareholders and investors.

    communication with shareholders and investors

information disclosure
in the interest of greater management transparency,                share distribution by shareholder type
sumitomo forestry takes a proactive approach to
information disclosure. at the general meeting of
shareholders held every june, for example, the company
presents reports and information as clearly as possible
using various forms of media. it also publishes printed and
online versions of its annual report in both english and
japanese, as well as japanese reports for shareholders on
business activities. these documents are designed to
present the essence of sumitomo forestry's activities in
an accurate and detailed manner.

in its efforts to continue gaining greater trust from
shareholders and investors, sumitomo forestry holds
earnings briefings and individual meetings to explain its
business performance following the announcement of
interim and year-end results, as well as conference calls
following release of q1 and q3 results. in fiscal 2009, the company held 214 of these individual meetings, demonstrating
its commitment to proactive communication.

at the individual meetings held in fiscal 2009, the group presented the concept that forestry is and has always been an
environmental business for sumitomo forestry, which helped participants understand the group from the perspective of
its efforts in environmental businesses. in an age when society is striving to solve environmental issues on a global scale,
businesses that are both environmentally and economically sound are indispensable. thus, sumitomo forestry
established the environmental business department to achieve those aims. these individual meetings helped investors to
understand the group's philosophy and direction, as well as the details of its business and performance results.

in july 2010, the company hosted its first meetings specifically for individual investors in tokyo and osaka, which were
attended by about 150 individual investors. the company presented both the group's financial results and its efforts to
preserve and protect the environment.




                                                              92

    inclusion in socially responsible investment indexes
there has been growing interest in socially responsible investment (sri) in
recent years. in this approach to selecting investments, assessments of
corporate social responsibility (csr), including environmental
responsiveness, social activities, and ethical stance, are weighed alongside
financial performance.

sumitomo forestry has been a component stock of the dow jones
sustainability world index (djsi world) for five consecutive years, and
was recently selected for the first time as the sector leader in the home
construction sector. under the corporate direction of contributing
through our business activities to local environments, societies, and
economies as an integrated housing and lifestyle company, and guided by
the spirit of a company that has practiced sustainable forestry since its
founding in 1691, the company became a participant in the united
nations global compact in december 2008. we believe our commitment
to the realization of a sustainable society through our global businesses and initiatives was a factor in this selection.

sumitomo forestry was selected for inclusion in the ftse4good global index in september 2004, the morningstar sri
index from september 2008, and perseveres in its efforts to continue being recognized in these indexes (as of march 31,
2010).

sumitomo forestry will continue to promote social responsibility in its economic, environmental and social endeavors as
it strives to earn its place in investor portfolios as a rewarding destination for sri.




                                                             93

recognizing that employees are human assets, sumitomo forestry strives to create a workplace conducive to the
successful performance of people of diverse backgrounds.

    creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees can work
    together with enthusiasm

basic personnel policy
based on the conviction that employees are human assets, sumitomo forestry has put in place personnel systems
designed to foster a workplace environment that facilitates the successful performance of people of all backgrounds.

in fiscal 2009, the company launched policies to establish and enhance the personnel system, as well as support careers
with an emphasis on each and every employee's independence and initiative. the top priority initiatives were a
company-wide effort to reduce overtime work, support for a diversity of work styles to achieve a work-life balance, and
expansion of career support.



          basic personnel policy

   as we aim to be a truly "excellent company" in housing and wood products businesses, we shall make efforts to
   put in place effective personnel systems, carry out appropriate and efficient placement of human assets,
   implement human resources development and training, and build a group of "strong and independent" individuals
   who are always willing to take up a challenge, all in accordance with sumitomo forestry's corporate philosophy,
   which states, “respect for humanity—we work to create an open corporate culture that instills a strong sense
   of pride and motivation in employees.”



  employment breakdown
  (as of march 31, 2010)

management level              1,926

non-management level          2,496

contract employees
                                 48
(interior coordinators)

contract employees
(non-interior                    60
coordinators)

hosted from other
                                  9
companies

average years of
                                12.3
service

                           7,659,438
average annual salary
                                yen

ratio of disabled
                              1.82%
employees




                                                          94

employee hiring and promotion policies
outstanding personnel are essential to sumitomo forestry's ability to sustain its business operations and contribute to
society. in hiring employees, we seek people who have the mental toughness and people-skills to push ahead with
corporate innovation in japan and abroad, have a sense of the fairness and integrity that characterize sumitomo
forestry's corporate culture, and have an abiding respect for humanity.

the personnel department's hiring team holds self-discovery seminars and hands-on workshops on world-class business
models for students who have begun their search for career opportunities after graduation. these activities aim to help
young people make choices about their lives, addressing subjects such as how to select candidate companies in the
job-hunting process, methods of self-analysis, and sumitomo forestry's own business operations.

  recruiting results

                              fy2009                  fy2010

                       male   female   total   male   female   total

 housing sales          98       19     117     71       16      87

 housing engineering    22       14      36     22        7      29

 general management     27        7      34     21        9      30

 total                 147       40     187    114       32     146




re-employment of retired employees
sumitomo forestry actively promotes the re-employment of workers who have reached retirement age, with the aim of
boosting its performance by retaining employees with proven abilities and skills, and also to meet the needs of people
who desire to continue working after the retirement age of 60. employees who are interested in re-employment and
meet certain requirements, including continuous employment for at least ten years and possession of specific skills and
experience, can work as contract employees (non-interior coordinator) until age 65 by registering with sumirin business
service co., ltd., a group affiliate engaged in personnel outsourcing.

in fiscal 2009, the company re-employed 22 people and, going forward, will make every effort to offer re-employment
to as many people as possible.


hiring policies at group companies outside japan
sumitomo forestry is committed to contributing to local economies. for this reason, its group companies outside japan
have endeavored since their founding to hire and train local employees and managers to the greatest extent possible.

as an example of these efforts, overall group companies in indonesia (pt. kutai timber indonesia, pt. rimba partikel
indonesia and pt. ast indonesia) have hired 99% of all employees locally. at new zealand affiliate nelson pine industries
ltd. (npil), all but three employees from a workforce of 245 were hired locally.

while some businesses may require short-term positions, sumitomo forestry endeavors to foster positive relationships
with local communities and generate ongoing employment by creating employment opportunities with continued
contract renewals over the long term.




                                                                       95

helping employees achieve work-life balance
sumitomo forestry, as a company involved with housing and lifestyles, strives to create a workplace where employees
can treasure their families and create a rich family life. the company is committed to continuous improvement of a
system that supports both work and private life, as well as ensuring that all employees take advantage of the system.
from fiscal 2008, in recognition of the diversity of workstyles, the company re-organized the positive action group as
the work & life group to promote the creation of a workplace that is easy to work in.

  promoting work-life balance through vacation and leave programs

    program                                     objective and description                                              fy2009 results

                   this system allows employees to combine their weekly holiday with paid vacation
                   days for five consecutive days of vacation every year between january 1 and
refresh            december 31, as distinct from the new year and summer vacation periods. regular
                                                                                                                                           61%
vacation           employees and contract employees (non-interior coordinators and interior
                   coordinators) who have been continuously employed by the company for at least
                   one year are eligible.

                   childcare leave may be taken by regular and contract employees (interior
                   coordinators) for the longer of the first 18 months of the child's life or until march
                   31st immediately following the child's first birthday. further, until the child
                   completes the sixth grade of elementary school, employees may begin or end
                                                                                                             100% of female employees who
childcare          work earlier or later, work shorter hours, or work a four-day week, and be
                                                                                                             gave birth took childcare leave.
(revised april     exempted from overtime work. in addition, employees may also take the
                                                                                                              17 male employees took childcare
1, 2010)           equivalent of ten days a year in one-hour increments to care for a sick or injured
                                                                                                              leave.
                   child, also until their children have completed the sixth grade of elementary
                   school. of these ten days, up to five days may be used for attending special
                   events with their children. employees with two or more children are granted an
                   additional five days.

                   this system allows up to 365 cumulative days of leave per family member
                   requiring care, and is available to employees and contract employees. participants
family care                                                                                                 2 employees took family care leave.
                   may also begin work and end work earlier or later, work shorter hours, or work a
                   four-day week.

family illness /   regular and contract employees may take the equivalent of ten days a year in
injury             one-hour increments to care for their family. five of the days annually may be
                                                                                                                             -
(revised april     used to care for family members who are ill or injured. employees with two or more
1, 2010)           family members requiring care are granted an additional five days.




                                                                       96

 childcare-related programs




                       i would like to know about the specific programs that sumitomo forestry has put in place to promote “value
                       families.” (customer)



encouraging male employees to take childcare leave
as part of sumitomo forestry's efforts to value families, the company encourages male employees to take childcare
leave. surveys are taken of male employees whose spouses have given birth to a child and childcare leave guides are
distributed to male employees. the company intranet is also used to publicize the status of employees taking childcare
leave, as well as stories from employees who have taken childcare leave.

in fiscal 2009, the company hosted the fifth annual conference for employees who are taking childcare leave, including
two male employees. the participants held a lively discussion with the company president on how to increase
acceptance of continuing to work while raising children. this year marked the first time that the employees' supervisors
and peers participated in the program. based on the contents of these discussions, sumitomo forestry published and
distributed a work-life balance pamphlet to all employees in april 2010.

in fiscal 2009, the number of male employees taking childcare leave increased to 17. sumitomo forestry will continue to
foster an environment that accepts the usage of the childcare leave program by both men and women and the balance
between work and childcare, creating a positive cycle that improves the support of parents caring for their children.




                                          conference for employees taking childcare leave


                       i'm very interested in your childcare leave program for male employees. i'd like to know the specifics because a
                       program in name only, where no one actually participates, is meaningless. (shareholder/ investor)



                                                                  97

launching the telework program
sumitomo forestry formally launched the telework program in fiscal 2009, in which employees may work at home or
other location remotely, aiming for the realization of a diversity of workstyles.

two monitoring surveys conducted in fiscal 2008 provided the feasibility of teleworking at headquarters and branch
offices, giving employees a new way of working, as well as increasing both work efficiency and work-life balance.
accordingly, sumitomo forestry reviewed its information systems and security measures to establish systems for the
treatment, working environment and health management of telework employees, and implemented a full-scale program
from april 2009. eight employees are participating in the program, employees who have needs for childcare or family
care, as well as those whose commute times were especially long. the time saved by not commuting to an office is being
used for both work and family life, and working in a quiet home environment has proven to increase productivity,
providing proof of the concept for the telework program.


compliance with next generation law
the next generation law requires employers to formulate and implement action plans to support employees raising
families.

sumitomo forestry's programs included in its 1st action plan for fiscal 2005 to 2006 and 2nd action plan for fiscal
2007 to 2008 satisfied designated requirements, earning certification from the tokyo labour bureau in april 2007 and
in may 2009 for its respective plans.

the 3r d action plan (fy2009-fy2010) has two goals. the first is to create a work environment in which employees can
comfortably raise their children, spend time with their family, and work effectively and positively. the second goal is to
create a climate that accepts both men and women balancing work with raising children.

the 3r d action plan has three specific targets: (1) ensuring at least 30 male employees take
childcare leave, (2) publishing an educational booklet and nurturing an environment supportive
of childcare by both parents, and (3) implementation of revised rules to facilitate easy
commuting during pregnancy. sumitomo forestry intends to earn certification attesting to the
compliance of the 3r d action plan with the next generation law, as it succeeded in doing with
the previous two plans.

in fiscal year 2009, the number of male employees taking childcare leave rose to 17. the
                                                                                                        the kurumin mark of
sumitomo forestry work-life balance pamphlet was distributed throughout the company and
                                                                                                           certification
efforts continued to achieve targets. in april 2010, maternity health management leave was
established allowing expectant and nursing mothers to take up to ten days in one-hour
increments when difficulties are encountered in visiting the hospital, commuting to work, or with starting work.


                      i would like sumitomo forestry to continue being a company that provides comfortable lifestyles to the
                      employees of group companies and business partners, as well as their families. (business partner)



promoting affirmative action
sumitomo forestry is committed to creating a workplace in which people can fulfill their ambitions and exercise their
skills irrespective of gender. to encourage the success of female employees, the company is working to expand the
presence of women in all job positions and to support working while raising children.

in fiscal 2009, the company, in cooperation with other house builders, sponsored a female housing sales job information
exchange. company employees engaged in a lively exchange of information with female employees of other companies in
the same industry on such topics as being a female sales executive and balancing work and motherhood. the opinions
given at this meeting will be reflected in future measures. sumitomo forestry plans to hold these meetings on an ongoing
basis to provide opportunities for enhancing motivation and problem-solving.




                                                                98

  female employment ratios (as of april 1 of each fiscal year)
                                                                                                    (%)

             as % of company workforce                   fy2006   fy2007    fy2008    fy2009    fy2010

 female employees including contract employees
                                                           15.8     15.8      16.4      16.4      16.9
 (interior coordinators and non-interior coordinators)

 female employees in management positions                   0.7       0.9       0.9       1.3       1.3

 newly hired female university graduates                   15.4     25.0      21.0      21.0      22.4



                          expectations for diversity are increasing in society. the greater the extent a company's workforce is made up of
                          unique individuals, the stronger the company will be. (financial and environmental expert)



new return to work application system
sumitomo forestry introduced a system in october 2008 that offers employees the opportunity to apply to return to
work after resigning because of family obligations or the job relocation of their spouse, so that their job experience can
be utilized and they can continue working. employees who have worked for three or more consecutive years are eligible
for this program, and the company determines whether to re-hire employees based on needs and the applicant's skills.
applicants hired within three years of resigning are able to return to their former position. as of may 2010, 18 people are
registered in the system.


transfers to accommodate spouse transfers
in fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry established a program that facilitates the transfer of employees to the same
destination as their spouse. this enables employees to continue working with sumitomo forestry. to date, four
employees have participated in this program.


human rights programs
sumitomo forestry's action statement, “our values and ideals,” lays out the group's shared ethical code, based on a
respect for diversity, regardless of disability, gender or age, a recognition of equality, and a total rejection of
discrimination. sumitomo forestry ensures that all employees are familiar with these concepts and promotes this shared
ethical code through training and other educational programs.


prevention of sexual and power harassment
in accordance with “our values and ideals” and its employment regulations, sumitomo forestry prohibits sexual and
power harassment through clearly stated rules and disciplinary standards. the company has set up the sexual
harassment consultation hotline and the compliance hotline to appropriately handle inquiries and complaints. to raise
awareness of the issues among employees, the company provides information and case studies through the intranet,
pamphlets, and training on human rights and ethics.

when handling a case of harassment, the sexual harassment consultation hotline promptly and appropriately verifies the
facts and gathers information with the accused, the complainant, and third parties, and then takes necessary procedures
with those concerned in accordance with the company's regulations and act on securing, etc. of equal opportunity and
treatment between men and women in employment. the privacy of all those involved is protected, and every effort is
made to ensure that neither the complainant nor those cooperating are treated detrimentally.




                                                                     99

new business proposal system
in fiscal 2006, sumitomo forestry launched the power for the future project to solicit new business proposals for
harnessing the ambitions and skills of employees in creating new business.

the project reviews business proposals and plans submitted by
employees, who are awarded if their plans are adopted. for the proposal
winning the grand prix prize, the company considers its commercialization
as a new business, and upper management offers advice and
encouragement to the employee.

the 3r d annual power for the future project received 178 proposals, 120
in the new business proposal category, and 58 in the business /
operations improvement proposal category. following a rigorous review,
two plans were awarded the grand prix and received an award of
recognition from the division general manager. both plans will be
considered for future implementation.
                                                                                presentations during the third round of judging.



communication with our employees
sumitomo forestry has conducted an employee satisfaction survey every two years since 2002 to determine employee
satisfaction.

in the fourth survey conducted in july 2008, which received 4,286 responses for a response rate of 86%, 73% of
respondents stated that they were satisfied to be working at sumitomo forestry. the results also showed that
employees with career objectives tended to have higher satisfaction. almost half of respondents stated that they felt
fatigued, revealing that difficulties in taking leave and frequent long overtime hours are problems for employees.

based on the results of the survey, sumitomo forestry set three priority issues for its future measures: providing support
for career development, reducing overtime work and eradicating obligatory overtime (from peer pressure), and
accommodating diverse work styles. the next survey will be conducted in fiscal 2011.


relations with the labor union
sumitomo forestry pursues a mutually beneficial relationship with its labor union to achieve healthy business
development together. labor agreements are based on the labor union act, and all employees (with the exception of
management) belong to the company union. these agreements stipulate that the company must ensure economic
stability for union members and continuously strive to maintain and improve working conditions.

to build sound and smooth relations between management and the labor union, a management advisory board has been
established to exchange views and deepen mutual understanding. a safety and health committee has also been
established, made up of management and union representatives, to address workplace safety and health issues.

in fiscal 2009, the company actively addressed three main areas: bringing forward the internal notification period for
transfers, revisions to the retirement benefits system, and implementation of a survey on overtime work; the company
also works to resolve issues related to various allowances and benefits, and work-life balance.


accommodating the new lay-jury system
sumitomo forestry has considered measures to accommodate japan's new jury system in advance of its
implementation. jury duty will be deemed equivalent to the employee's regular work responsibilities, and the employees
will thus be paid their regular salary.




                                                          100

    creating a safe and healthy workplace

workplace safety and health policies
sumitomo forestry is actively engaged in fostering a workplace in which employees can perform their jobs in a safe and
healthy manner. in recent years, the company has introduced a range of initiatives to address one of its priority issues:
reducing overtime work to ensure that employees enjoy mental and physical health and work-life balance.

sumitomo forestry provides regular health checkups to all employees, whether permanent or non-permanent. this along
with other activities to improve workplace health and safety demonstrate the company's commitment to its rules for
safety and health management and its basic personnel policy of recognizing employees as human assets.


reduction of overtime
reducing overtime improves employee health and morale, lowers employee turnover, attracts outstanding personnel, and
ultimately enhances the company's ability to provide high value-added products and services. accordingly, sumitomo
forestry has given this issue the highest priority.

because office work is increasingly performed using computers, the company introduced a compulsory 10 p.m. pc
shutdown system in june 2007 as a measure to prevent visual display terminal (vdt) syndrome and health
complications from overwork.

in october 2007, the company established an executive committee and working groups headed by the personnel
department director to encourage appropriate control over working hours and limitations on overtime, with the goal of
raising employee morale and maintaining their health. for an issue that management shares with labor, the committee
drafted measures to curb overtime tailored to each division's work style and specific problems related to working hours,
and put them into action from april 2008.

in particular, it has become even more important to manage working hours to preserve the health of employees in the
housing division, in light of more stringent construction-related legislation, the maturation of the housing market, and
dramatic changes in the external environment such as heightened competition. accordingly, sumitomo forestry took
specific measures to curb overtime work, such as discontinuing perfunctory meetings, restricting times for internal
meetings, setting concentrated work times, and automatically shutting down pcs in the late evening on week nights and
restricting their use on weekends. sumitomo forestry also decided to start and end work times later in consideration of
the tendency for work duties to be concentrated in the afternoon, and in response to the results of the labor union's
questionnaire and requests.

                      i expect to see results from initiatives to reduce long working hours. (customer)



anti-smoking program
sumitomo forestry actively implements systems and programs to support the physical and mental health of its
employees, while also providing information to encourage greater awareness of the importance of taking responsibility
for one's own health.

with the growing interest in quitting smoking, the company has implemented anti-smoking programs that encourage
employees to try quitting smoking and to eliminate smoking-allowed areas on company premises. the first trial
non-smoking campaign had a successful quit-smoking ratio of 48%, and in the second trial, 44% of participants
successfully quit smoking. in fiscal 2009, smoking-allowed areas were eliminated on the occasion of the relocation of the
company's headquarters.

from fiscal 2010, the program will be further strengthened with the launch of the “no smoking anywhere during work
hours” campaign. in the first half of the year, smoking will not be allowed during morning work hours, and from the
second half, smoking will not be allowed at all during work hours (excluding breaks).




                                                                101

 mental health initiatives
sumitomo forestry has been running a mental health support program since april 2006 to further support its employees'
mental health.

a toll-free telephone service called the medical consultation and treatment for mind and body is also available to take
calls regarding workplace concerns, relationships with other people, general frustrations and worries, and requests for
information on medical facilities. posters displayed in the company and cards printed with information about the toll-free
service are distributed to regular and contract (interior coordinators and non-interior coordinators) employees (except
for dispatched employees) to ensure familiarity with the service and encourage its use. currently, seven group
companies also provide the medical consultation and treatment for mind and body to their employees.


 regular health checkups and extensive examinations
to help employees manage their health, all employees are given a regular health checkup each year, with more extensive
examinations available to employees over 35 and dependents of employees upon request.

for the second consecutive year, 100%1 of sumitomo forestry's employees in fiscal 2009 received both a regular health
checkup and an extensive examination, thanks to monthly progress checks by each business establishment. in addition, a
follow-up system has been set up for all patients requiring further examination, including consultations with the industrial
doctor in each office and the delivery and collection of forms verifying second examinations.

from fiscal 2008, metabolic syndrome diagnostic criteria have been included in regular health checkups and more
extensive checkups for employees aged 40 years or more. sumitomo forestry is committed to raising the attendance
rate of employee dependants, as well as employees. however, it is difficult to convey information to employee
dependants in some cases, as when employees are transferred to distant locations without their families or are posted
outside of japan. to address such cases, sumitomo forestry has introduced an online reservation system for extensive
examinations, enabling employee dependants to visit the doctor on their own initiative. e-mail is used to provide
information on the consultation, thus improving convenience and increasing attendance rates.

1 this does not include employees on long-term leave for maternity leave and illness.


 plants with safe and healthy workplaces
the sumitomo forestry group strives continuously to improve labor health and safety at its plants.

in october 2009, sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.'s kyushu plant (former toyo plywood co., ltd.) was awarded
honorable mention in the 2009 saga prefecture industrial safety and health convention, saga labor bureau chief's prize
for superior safety and health in a workplace, organization, or by an individual. this prize is for workplaces recognized
as having made exemplary efforts to improve industrial safety and health within the prefecture. the company was
recognized for “always having a deep awareness of the importance of safety and health, and proactively promoting
voluntary safety and health management activities.”

the group will continue its efforts in safety and health activities with the goal of being recognized as exemplary in all
respects.


 prevention of child labor and forced labor
the sumitomo forestry group's offices in and outside japan hire employees in compliance with local laws and ordinances,
and do not engage in illegal labor practices such as child labor and forced labor.




                                                                    102

    development of sumitomo forestry's human resources
sumitomo forestry's human resources development policies are based on supporting the autonomy of employees, who
determine sumitomo forestry's success.


human resource development policies
to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity advocated in the action guidelines, sumitomo
forestry works to support autonomous employees as a basic policy for human resources development.

sumitomo forestry not only provides training tailored to specific job categories and levels, but also offers a full range of
training based on employee needs and current requirements of society, including support for graduate studies at
universities in and outside of japan, acquisition of professional certifications, and an extensive speakers program
featuring experts from external institutions, and programs to develop future business leaders and nurture individual
employee career aspirations.


career consultation and support
the career support desk opened in april 2007 to employees with assistance specific to their needs in managing their
careers. specialized career advisers provide expert career advice for individual employees. in fiscal 2009, 31 people
made use of this service.

sumitomo forestry launched the mentoring program in fiscal 2008, creating a one-to-one relationship between the
mentor and the employee. the mentor provides counsel to the employee and supports his or her long-term career
development. the mentoring program was established as a result of the findings of an employee satisfaction survey
conducted in fiscal 2008 as a means to improve sharing of information and communication with employees.

the mentoring program is designed to create a corporate climate in which employees can support each other's growth
freely and continuously. in fiscal 2009, three pairs participated in the program for the full year.




                                                            103

multifaceted training
sumitomo forestry offers its employees a variety of training opportunities to encourage them to independently pursue
their career ambitions and to provide opportunities to learn business skills that match their life plans. in fiscal 2009, the
company spent 99,000 yen per employee on training.

  multifaceted training programs

                                                                                                                        fy2009 results
         training programs                                              description                                      (number of
                                                                                                                           people)

                                    specific training for new graduates upon entry to the company, training for new
                                    graduates at sumitomo forestry school of professional building techniques,
 periodic training for different
                                    follow-up training for those who have changed job categories, new manager                     1,150
 levels and job categories
                                    training, job-specific and objective-oriented training for mid-level managers,
                                    training for new general managers, etc.

                                    training for career stage transition, including programs for management strategy,
                                                                                                                                     415
                                    female managers, and career design
 selective training for differing
 needs
                                    graduate studies program: mba programs of highly specialized knowledge
                                                                                                                                         1
                                    concerning management and problem-solving methodology

                                    subsidized external training programs to acquire official qualifications and
 “cafeteria-style” training                                                                                                          230
                                    enhanced business skills


  initiatives for further enhancing human resources development programs




                                                                    104

creating intellectual property
sumitomo forestry strives to foster a climate conducive to the active creation of intellectual property. in particular, the
company is addressing environmental problems by creating new and competitive technology related to timber research
and for long-lasting houses, and then pursuing patents. the company seeks to aggressively protect the group's
intellectual property and avoid infringing on rights controlled by other entities, holding workshops on intellectual property
and compliance. with respect to environmentally related intellectual property, the company is promoting shared internal
utilization through various measures including the establishment of the environmentally related intellectual property map,
the publication of intellectual property news, and the introduction of relevant material on its web site.

sumitomo forestry has also initiated patent proposal and award programs with monetary incentives awarded to
employees who submit ideas for outstanding inventions. employee awareness of patent proposals is rising every year,
with 453 proposals received in fiscal 2009. furthermore, education on intellectual property has been incorporated in new
graduate and general training programs.


passing on skills
sumitomo forestry recognizes that to continue building sumitomo ringyo no ie
(sumitomo forestry home) houses that utilize the advantages of the traditional
wooden post-and-beam construction method, it is important to pass on skills and
techniques to the next generation of workers. to achieve its objective of nurturing
the skills and knowledge of craftspeople (carpenters), sumitomo forestry founded
the sumitomo forestry school of professional building techniques in 1988 as an
intra-corporate vocational training school. in fiscal 2009, 41 people graduated from
the school, for a total of 857 graduates since its establishment. in fiscal 2010, 28
students were admitted and are currently engaged in training.

the school functions as a boarding school for candidate carpenters who have joined
group-affiliate sumitomo forestry home engineering co., ltd., which specializes in
carrying out and supervising the construction of sumitomo forestry home houses.
living together in dormitories for one year, these students study a wide-ranging
curriculum, from traditional wooden post-and-beam construction methods to the
latest construction techniques used by sumitomo forestry home for the houses it           47th national skills competition
builds. the skills that these carpenters acquire are consistently evaluated highly,
demonstrated by strong performances at the annual national skills competition in japan. in october 2009, six graduates
of the school and current employees of sumitomo forestry home engineering co., ltd. participated in the 47th annual
national skills competition. each employee brought home a medal, winning one gold, one silver, one bronze, and three
“fighting spirit” awards. this marks the fifth consecutive year since the 43rd competition that the school's students
have been awarded such honors.

the sumitomo forestry school of professional building techniques also serves as a center for training new employees,
regardless of their specialties, from other sumitomo forestry group companies. the school cooperates in work
experience programs every year for local students, with 11 sixth-grade elementary school students accepted in july
2009 and three second-year middle school students attending in november 2009.

in may 2009, fujio terano, a technician leader in the chiba office of sumitomo forestry home engineering co., ltd., and
yoshihiro endo, a contract carpenter in the north japan office, were awarded the outstanding craftsman award by the
minister of land, infrastructure, transport, and tourism. the two employees were recognized for their technical skill and
techniques, and their significant contributions to the guidance and nurturing of the next generation of craftsmen. these
awards mark the third consecutive year since 2007 that builders of sumitomo forestry homes have been recognized
with such awards.




                                                            105

sumitomo forestry makes use of the knowledge and expertise it has built up through its business activities in its social
contribution activities in environmental education and forest preservation. the company also actively communicates
with society to convey its corporate stance.

    ongoing communications with society

policy
sumitomo forestry believes that ongoing communication with society is essential to a company's sustainable
development, and further believes it essential to gain the recognition and understanding of all stakeholders. sumitomo
forestry uses its unique mascot called“kikorin”to present its corporate stance in newspapers, magazines, television
and other media. the company particularly emphasizes direct communication, and participates directly in special events
to give the public a more accurate and deeper understanding of sumitomo forestry.

                         sumitomo forestry's commercial really draws the interest and concern of children and students—the future
                         generation—so i look forward to seeing it. (educational and research organization)
                         sumitomo forestry should carry out more publicity on its environmental initiatives. (business partner)
                         i expect educational activity about the role forests play in preserving the environment. (student)
                         i want you to expand the number of environmental education events. (student)



dissemination of information about wood
in fiscal 2009 for the third consecutive year, sumitomo forestry held the sustainable forest gallery 2010: kikorin and
friends of the earth at tokyo midtown in tokyo's minato ward. this corporate public relations event was held for one
week in january 2010.

this year's event was designed to express how the sumitomo forestry group operates its businesses in consideration of
the earth's environment. the event space created a world of wooden goodness that could only come from sumitomo
forestry, expressed by such installations as kikorin's forest, with a globe motif, and kikorin's house, constructed with
the actual materials used to build sumitomo ringyo no ie (sumitomo forestry home) houses. photo galleries of the
endangered plant and animal species living in company-owned forests and introduction of the company's efforts to
protect ecosystems emphasized the company's vision of growing our businesses while preserving biodiversity. more than
9,000 people, including students and the general public, visited the event.

also in fiscal 2009, the fourth annual summer ecology school for families, sponsored by the asahi shimbun newspaper
and co-sponsored by sumitomo forestry, was held at the national children's castle in tokyo's shibuya ward. the school
was attended by 245 families (545 people) selected from 2,040 applicants. the selected families learned nature crafts,
participated in challenging eco-quizzes and made models of eco-homes. sumitomo forestry employees, appearing as
“forest professors” and “home and town professors,” explained the importance of forests and the appeal of wood in
an entertaining way.




                                                               106

    evaluation by society

sumitomo forestry's corporate advertising wins awards
the“friends of the earth: kikorin's house”execution of the fiscal 2009 corporate advertising campaign was awarded a
bronze medal at the 33rd yomiuri housing and life advertising pateo awards. the awards were established by the
yomiuri shimbun in 1977 to recognize development in housing-related industries and related advertising activities. the
awards are characterized by the total evaluation by noted representatives of different fields of the advertising related to
housing and living placed in the yomiuri shimbun, the company's product planning and marketing activities, as well as the
corporate vision behind it. the group's advertising was evaluated for“communicating the company's approach to the
environment in a clear and easy-to-understand manner.”

the fiscal 2009 corporate advertising campaign featuring the kikorin mascot,“forests from volcanoes?”(mt. bromo
plantation project), won a best-in-category award in the 77th mainichi advertisement design competition. sponsored by
the the mainichi newspapers, the award is one of japan's most prestigious domestic newspaper advertising awards,
having been established in 1931 as part of activities to promote both art and business under the slogan, “promoting
craft and integrating the arts and industry.”the group's advertising was selected from among 159 entries of
advertising placed in the mainichi newspapers.




                  “friends of the earth:                             “forests from volcanoes?”
                    kikorin's house”                                (mt. bromo plantation project)



the 3 rd annual kids design award
sumitomo forestry's ryouonbou design concept was awarded the kids design
award in the architecture and space design category of the 3r d annual kids design
awards sponsored by the non-profit organization, kids design association. the
judges commented,“the ryouonbou concept of cooling and heating provides
opportunities for parents and children to implement the lifestyle in their own
homes.”the ryouonbou design concept, which utilizes natural energy and expresses
the four seasons in a home, was evaluated for its contributions to improving the                     kids design award 2009
safety, security, and healthy growth and development of children.




                                                           107

    social contribution through core businesses

policy on social contribution activities
sumitomo forestry believes that it is important to utilize its technology and knowledge to contribute to the sustainable
utilization of timber resources and local community development, as well as protect our abundant forests into the future.
with these aims, the company is engaged in a wide variety of social contribution activities.

raising awareness about forests to a larger segment of society is particularly important to their preservation. this
motivates sumitomo forestry to dedicate resources to environmental education such as lectures at elementary and
middle schools, as well as on-site training at company-owned forests. the company is also actively involved in restoring
forests damaged by disaster.

sumitomo forestry also supports volunteer activities undertaken by individual employees to create a workplace
environment that encourages people to contribute to their local communities.

                       i would like sumitomo forestry to take the lead in social activities closely oriented to the local community.
                       (employee)



forester house
sumitomo forestry has been presenting its initiatives in sustainable
forestry to the general public for over 100 years, and in line with that
tradition, it opened the forester house in 1993. located in the
company-owned forest in the besshiyama area of niihama city, ehime
prefecture, the facility serves as a focal point in the company's efforts to
share information on the uses of forests and forestry.

the forester house was founded to commemorate the centenary of the
large-scale reforestation plan initiated in 1894 by teigo iba, the manager
of the sumitomo besshi copper mine and later the second director general
of sumitomo. among the exhibits, which were updated in 2005, georama
installations illustrate the stages of forestry from tree planting to logging,
                                                                                                          the forester house
a gallery displays images of company-owned forests, and other exhibits
portray the history of sumitomo forestry and its environmental initiatives.

the facility is used as a base for walks in the forest, nature observation and environmental education. it attracted 3,425
visitors in fiscal 2009, and is also used for the company's employee training programs. looking forward, we plan to
enhance activities at the forester house so that even more people can make use of it, while continuing to employ the
facility as a base for sharing information.


mt. fuji manabi no mori project
sumitomo forestry launched the mt. fuji manabi no mori natural forest restoration
project in 1998 to contribute to local communities by repairing the severe damage
caused by typhoon violet in 1996 to forests south of mt. fuji. the company
received a broad range of advice from a steering committee made up of
representatives from the local government, npos, academics, and media
organizations. major tree-planting activities have been completed, and the company
continues its cultivation activities such as clearing away underbrush.

under the project, the environmental education program for local elementary and
middle school students was launched in fiscal 2006, and continued in collaboration
with the npo, whole earth nature school. the program allows children to experience
mt. fuji's natural environment and improve their understanding of nature in an
entertaining way by exploring manabi no mori, looking for wildlife, listening for
characteristic birdsongs, observing the ecology of trees and wild grasses, and
participating in active nature-related games. the mt. fuji manabi no mori project also
features the forest ark, a facility that provides visitors with the opportunity to           environmental education program
observe environmentally friendly technologies such as solar and wind generating
systems, a bio-toilet, and a pellet stove. a total of 573 students participated in the program in fiscal 2009.

the company also began a nature experience program in fiscal 2007 for children living in an orphanage. in fiscal 2009,
12 children participated, enjoying a refreshing day in the forest.


                                                                  108

along with these programs, the mt. fuji manabi no mori project offers support in training local human resources to
promote environmental education. the company is also working to determine the effectiveness and impact of its
restoration activities through participation in research, including vegetation monitoring programs and wildlife habitat
surveys by specialists, as well as basic research on forest utilization and conservation.

these activities have been highly commended for their significant contribution to environmental protection at mt. fuji,
and led to sumitomo forestry winning the mt. fuji charter performance awards.


                      i hope more children living in cities are given the chance to experience such programs as the manabi no mori
                      environmental education program. (customer)



conservation of tokyo headwater forests
as part of its efforts to support employees' volunteer activities, since april 2005 sumitomo forestry has provided
assistance for employees participating in the tamagawa suigen shinrintai (tama riverhead forest region), sponsored by
the tokyo metropolitan bureau of waterworks.


collaborating with educational institutions
dr. nasu (phd, engineering), deputy general manager of the housing
division, presented“collaboration between sweden and japan on wood
construction technology,”an overview of joint research conducted over
a two-and-a-half year period with the sp technical research institute of
sweden in november 2009 at the architectural structure: the future and
issues sponsored by meiji university. the symposium explored the future
of japan's architectural structures, building materials, and building
techniques while providing comparisons with global technological levels.

in may 2010, dr. nasu guest-lectured at the tokyo institute of
technology on the topic“wooden construction in europe and
japan,”presenting case studies of the company's big frame construction
                                                                                            dr. nasu presenting at the meiji university
method and the development of european wooden construction.
                                                                                                           symposium

these lectures are based on the big frame-euro joint research, which was
conducted at the invitation of the royal sweden sp research and
development agency, and consisted of basic research and technology
sharing that resulted in the construction of a student dormitory. this joint
research program has also been featured on the nhk program, “save the
future.”

like japan, sweden is blessed with forest resources and makes proactive
use of them. in order to contribute to the prevention of global warming,
sweden is engaged in a number of projects to expand the use of wood
construction as a matter of governmental policy. the bf construction
method offers safety, versatility, and freedom of interior space layout,
                                                                                          student dormitory built using bf construction
and is perfectly matched to the european culture of caring for and living in
                                                                                               method (skellefteå city, sweden)
buildings for the long term, and is recognized as a new construction
technology for wooden houses in sweden.




                                                                109

disseminating information at symposia and other events
sumitomo forestry actively sponsors lectures to offer the knowledge and experience it has gained for the benefit of
society.

in fiscal 2009, as interest in biodiversity is increasing due the 10th convention of the parties of the conference on
biodiversity being convened in nagoya, sumitomo forestry was an exhibitor at the biodiversity expo 2010 sponsored by
the ministry of the environment held at the marine messe fukuoka in february 2010 and at the osaka international
convention center in march 2010. the company's exhibit introduced its efforts to preserve biodiversity including the
endangered species in company-owned forests.

at the biodiversity and business opportunity panel discussion held on the opening day of the expo in fukuoka, the
general manager of the environmental solution department at the time presented a case study of sumitomo forestry's
efforts to preserve biodiversity at its large-scale commercial forest plantation in indonesia.




                        sumitomo forestry's booth                              panel discussion



   initiatives to preserve biodiverisity(p.59)




funds allocated to social contribution activities
 funds allocated to social contribution activities (fiscal 2009)




                                                                   110

reforestation project in indonesia's bromo tengger semeru national park
in november 2008, sumitomo forestry began working with the republic of indonesia's ministry of forestry to carry out a
reforestation project on approximately 1,000 hectares in bromo tengger semeru national park in east java. this project
aims to obtain united nations accreditation as a clean development mechanism (cdm) project.

regarded as one of indonesia's most famous tourist attractions, the
national park is situated at a high altitude and centered on mt. bromo,
which is considered a hindu holy site by the indigenous tengger tribe.
repeated forest fires and sulfur dioxide gas emitted by mt. bromo,
however, have devastated the forests, making their recovery extremely
difficult.

after the project start, saplings were prepared, roads repaired, and in
january 2009 tree planting began. to date, 171 hectares of land have
been planted with trees. going forward, the project will continue to
expand the land area under reforestation as well as nurturing the trees
already planted.
                                                                                          plantation lands

forests absorb co2 but also cultivate water resources, prevent landslides,
provide recreation areas, and maintain and protect biodiversity. plantation
forest operations help recover these functions and will result in the return
of precious and vital forests in the national park and for the local peoples.
thus, the project proactively employs local peoples, encourages local
school children to get involved with plantation activity, and deploys
specialist experts to comprehensively study the effects of plantation
activity on biodiversity.




                                                                                         biodiversity survey




                                                            111

managing the daigoji temple garden
since 1998, sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. has maintained the expansive landscape of the daigoji temple
—designated as a world heritage site—located in kyoto's fushimi ward. the temple's garden, which has ponds and
waterfalls around its sarasvati hall, has been damaged by pond water that has leaked and become buried in sediment,
and by overgrown trees. the company restored and replaced the waterfalls, reinforced small waterfalls and streams,
built up the banks of the ponds to prevent leakage, improved the pond bottoms and carried out water-resistance work.
moreover, sumitomo forestry landscaping restored the landscape in consideration of the overall scenery—the temple's
bell towers, main lecture hall and sarasvati hall against the backdrop of a mountain and deciduous trees renowned for
their colorful leaves in autumn—to reflect past sensibilities and create a sense of gentle calm and relaxation. completed
in november 2008, the garden was named the rinsen muryo jyuen.




                                     before restoration




                                      after restoration




    other social contribution activities

policy on social contribution activities in sites outside of japan
as a good corporate citizen, and guided by“our values and ideals,”sumitomo forestry is committed to actively
contributing to community development, in consideration of local conditions and with an understanding of local cultures
and traditions.


kti educational foundation
to commemorate the 30th anniversary of its founding, sumitomo forestry group company pt. kutai timber indonesia
(kti) established the kti educational foundation in 2000 to provide scholarships to elementary and middle school
students living in the vicinity of the kti plant and plantation forests. the foundation also provides relief donations for
natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods.

in fiscal 2009, the foundation provided 36,000,000 rupiah (approximately 290,880 yen) to 44 elementary school
students and seven high school students.




                                                            112

support for regional environmental conservation efforts through the sumitomo
forestry school of professional building techniques
beginning in fiscal 2006, the sumitomo forestry school of professional
building techniques participated in a local citywide cleanup program to
remove illegally dumped rubbish, organized by the yotsukaido cleanup
association. participation, which was part of orientation for new students,
was intended to give school students the opportunity to consider waste-
related issues, as well as encourage volunteer activities and foster positive
attitudes among these builders of the future, and give back to the local
community. in april 2010, following welcoming remarks by the director of
the environmental economy department of the city of yotsukaido, 36
participants carried out cleanup activities.


                                                                                                      clean-up activities



contributions to public policy
as an active member of the social capital organizational deliberation council, sumitomo forestry offers suggestions
regarding legislation such as the building standards act, the kenchikushi law for architects & building engineers, the
building judiciary designated housing defect collateral execution law, and the excellent long-term housing promotion
act.

in july 2008, sumitomo forestry became a founding member of the committee for the promotion of high-quality
housing stock, recognizing the growing urgency to develop systems for residential construction that can be used
successively by multiple generations while retaining asset value. to ensure the longevity of houses, owners face the
financial burden of regular inspections and maintenance. accordingly, the association revised the assessment
methodology used by real estate transaction companies when a house is resold, devising a scheme that accounts for the
appropriate maintenance of a house in its appraisal value. sumitomo home services co., ltd., a group company in the
real estate agency business, has adopted this system for its sumitomo forestry home houses.

                       i expect the company to carry on the ambitions that motivated its founding, protect and cultivate japan's
                       beautiful forests, and pressure the government to raise the proportion of wooden constructions. (employee)




    investment to realize a sustainable society

support for the fund to continue the activities of small and medium-scale
corporations in the housing and related industries
sumitomo forestry contributes to the fund to continue the activities of small and medium-scale corporations in the
housing and related industries, which provides assistance to companies that possess proprietary technology but face
operational difficulties due to the absence of a successor to take over from the current head. leveraging the network
and expertise that sumitomo forestry has built up over many years, companies in which the fund invests can take
advantage of the resources needed to tackle succession issues and support new business development.


sri through corporate pension funds
socially responsible investment (sri) funds have attracted considerable attention recently as an investment approach
that emphasizes environmental considerations and socially oriented activities.

reflecting the company's commitment to csr and recognition of the social significance of this investment approach, the
corporate pension fund that manages sumitomo forestry's pension plan has invested 600 million yen in sri funds from
the plan's assets, which totaled 41.48 billion yen as of march 31, 2010.




                                                                113

to step up its efforts for addressing environmental issues, the sumitomo forestry group revised its environmental
philosophy and environmental policies in october 2007, and presented them more clearly and coherently.

    environmental philosophy and environmental policies


        environmental philosophy

   with many years of practical experience in silviculture, sumitomo forestry group has an appreciation of the
   wonderful renewable resource that forests represent and the benefits that nature provides. environmental
   protection is imperative in the 21st century. as a corporate group with a close affinity with nature, we are aware
   of the potential impact of our activities on the environment, and we contribute to society through the vigorous
   pursuit of business operations in harmony with conservation principles.




        environmental policies

   as a positive contribution to the creation of a sustainable society that achieves a balance between the
   environment and economy and gives due consideration to such issues as biodiversity and the prevention of global
   warming, the sumitomo forestry group shall ensure conformance of its business operations to the following
   policies.

    1. develop a business domain centered on trees and wood
       cultivate forests as a way to preserve and enhance natural environments and forest functionality while
       seeking to actively utilize those timber resources.

    2. develop and sell environmentally friendly products
       pursue the development, design and sale of products and technologies that are environmentally superior in
       terms of the entire product lifecycle.

    3. minimize environmental impact
       make efforts to prevent environmental pollution through accurate assessment of direct and indirect
       influences on the environment; promote green procurement of timber and other building materials and green
       purchasing of office products and other goods; and, achieve and maintain zero emissions through proper
       waste treatment and 3r (reduce, reuse, recycle) initiatives.

    4. make ongoing improvements to environmental activity and the environmental management
       system
       establish environmental budgets to ensure implementation of the environmental policies, and make ongoing
       improvements to environmental budgets and the environmental management system through reviews
       conducted at least once a year.

    5. ensure strict legal compliance
       adhere to all environmental laws, rules and regulations, voluntary standards, accords with stakeholders and
       other environmental conventions.

    6. promote environmental education
       provide environmental education for all people involved in the business operations of the sumitomo forestry
       group and encourage voluntary environmental activities.

    7. place emphasis on communication
       actively disclose information and respect the opinions of stakeholders while pursuing environmental
       initiatives.


                                                             114

    8. publicly disclose and ensure implementation of the environmental policies
       make the environmental policies available to the general public and ensure familiarization with the policies by
       all people involved in the business operations of the sumitomo forestry group.

                                                                                                              akira ichikawa
                                                                                       president and representative director
                                                                                                     (revised april 1, 2010)



                      it is important that sumitomo forestry effectively communicates its vision to society. (expert)




    implementing the medium-term environmental management plan
in december 2009, the sumitomo forestry group set forth the medium-term environmental management plan, including
specific guiding principles and targets for the group's environmental management going forward, replacing the previous
plan that was established in december 2005.

the plan takes the medium-term perspective, examining specific quantitative targets to define the vision of where
sumitomo forestry should be in five years' time, setting out shared targets for the group as well as targets for each
division, and major affiliated companies.

measures to achieve the targets are set forth by various perspectives: product (customer), business process innovation
(internal, business partners), human resource development (employees, business partners), communication (industry,
general public), etc. by advancing efforts to achieve the targets below, the group will realize true environmental
management.




                                                                115

 medium-term environmental management plan (excerpt of major objectives)

                                  area of
                                                basic strategy
    unit       responsible    environmental                             evaluation metrics /
                                                 (objectives)                                                      fy2014 targeted
                                  impact                                                          fy2009 results
                                                                          targeted values                                 values

                                                                   percentage of reduction of
                                                                                                                   -12% (2010
                                              reduction of co2     total co2 emissions
                                                                                                 -11.5%            target value
                                              emissions(offices)   compared with fy2006
                                                                                                                   continues)
                                                                   (%)

                                                                   percentage of reduction of
                                                                   co2 emissions per base
                                                                   unit compared with
                                                                                                          -        -8%
                                                                   fy2006 (%)
                                                                   * the base unit is set

                                                                   separately for each plant.

                                                                   percentage of reduction of
                                                                   total co2 emissions
                                                                   compared with fy2006
                                                                   (%)
                                              reduction of co2
              environmental
                              global          emissions(plants
              management                                           guidelines for capital
                              warming         in japan)
              department                                           investment and emission
sumitomo                                                           volume transactions
forestry
group                                                              former sumitomo forestry

(shared                                                            crest co., ltd. (four         -13.2%            -10%

targets)                                                           plants)

                                                                   former toyo plywood co.,
                                                                                                 -29.4%            -20%
                                                                   ltd. (three plants)

                                                                   sumirin agro-products co.,
                                                                                                 -11.3%            -10%
                                                                   ltd.

                                                                   set for each plant in
                                              reduction of co2     consideration of national
                                              emissions(plants     policy on co2 reduction
                                              outside japan)       targets, etc., in each
                                                                   country.

                              resource                             do not simply dispose of
                              consumption,                         industrial waste generated                      achieve zero
              environmental   resource                             by domestic manufacturing                       emissions in the
                                              achievement of
              management      recycling,                           facilities, as well as new             -        capital area (by
                                              zero emissions
              department      industry                             construction sites through                      december 31,
                              waste                                simple incineration or                          2012)
                              products                             landfill.

                              resource
                              consumption,    promotion and        percentage of certified
                              resource        expansion of         forests in newly acquired
                                                                                                 100%              100%
                              recycling,      sustainable          forests managed by the
                              biodiversity,   forests              group
                              others

                                                                       implement monitoring
forestry      forestry                        establishment of         surveys in
department    department                      forestry                 company-owned forests
                                              management that                                                      4 out of 4
                                                                       (collect and review
                                                                                                                   locations
                                              enables both             fundamental materials:
                              biodiversity,                                                      2 out of 4
                                              preservation and         2008-2011).
                              others                                                             locations         set specific
                                              conservation of          from 2012, set specific
                                                                                                                   numeric targets
                                              biodiversity and         numeric targets by                          from 2012.
                                              forestry                 region based on
                                              businesses               comparative analysis of
                                                                       data collected.


                                                                 116

                                   area of
                                                  basic strategy
    unit        responsible     environmental                              evaluation metrics /
                                                   (objectives)                                                         fy2014 targeted
                                    impact                                                            fy2009 results
                                                                              targeted values                                   values

               forest                                                  percentage of certified
                                resource        increase
               products                                                timber handled and            products           products
                                consumption,    sustainable timber
               trading                                                 percentage of plantation      92.5%              95%
                                biodiversity    handled
               department                                              timber handled.

                                global
                                warming,        increase utilization
               building                                                volume of environmentally
                                resource        of environmentally                                   5,046 ecocute      6,000 ecocute
               materials                                               friendly building materials
timber &                        consumption,    friendly building                                    units              units
               department                                              handled
building                        resource        materials
materials                       recycling
division and
major          sumitomo
                                resource                                                             logs               logs
affiliated     forestry                         promote use of
                                consumption,                           volume of domestically        419,000 m3         1,300,000 m3
companies      timberland                       domestically
                                global                                 grown timber handled          lumber             lumber
               management                       grown timber
                                warming                                                              235,000 m3         500,000 m3
               co., ltd.

               sumitomo
                                resource                                  percentage of domestic     71.3%
               forestry crest                                                                                           95%
                                consumption,    promote use of            timber used                launched cfp
               co., ltd.                                                                                                display cfp on all
                                global          sustainable timber        carbon footprint (cfp)     display on
               (komatsushima                                                                                            products
                                warming                                   display                    domestic plywood
               plant)

                                                expand use of
                                                sustainable raw
                                resource
                                                materials
                                consumption,                           percentage of sustainable
                                                * sustainable raw
                                resource                               timber used for raw           91%                100%
                                                materials:
                                recycling,                             materials
overseas                                        plantation timber,
                                biodiversity
business                                        certified timber,
               overseas
division and                                    waste wood
               business
major
               division
affiliated                      resource
companies                       consumption,
                                                                       percentage of houses sold
                                resource        promote
                                                                       that meet environmental       percentage：67%     percentage：90%
                                recycling,      environmentally
                                                                       standards (number of          （72 units）         （495 units）
                                living          friendly housing
                                                                       units)
                                environments
                                (others)

               building
               materials
               procurement &
                                global
               logistics
                                warming,
               department                                              percentage of domestic
                                resource        promote and
                                                                       timber used in all products
                                consumption,    expand usage of                                      63.6%              70%
               technology                                              (base: volume of all timber
housing                         resource        domestic timber
               department                                              used)
division and                    recycling,
major                           others
               marketing
affiliated
               strategy
companies
               department

                                biodiversity,   promote
               sumitomo
                                living          residential
               forestry                                                number of native plants
                                environments    landscaping that is                                  17,753             35,000
               landscaping                                             used
                                (residential    friendly to
               co., ltd.
                                landscaping)    biodiversity




                                                                    117

                                  area of
                                                 basic strategy
    unit        responsible    environmental                            evaluation metrics /
                                                  (objectives)                                                   fy2014 targeted
                                   impact                                                       fy2009 results
                                                                         targeted values                              values

                               resource                             percentage of housing
                                               promotion of
               residential     consumption,                         units using
                                               environmentally
               property        resource                             next-generation energy-
                                               symbiotic                                       34%               100%
               development     recycling,                           conservation standards
real estate                                    property
               department      global                               (base: construction
business                                       development
                               warming                              starts)
division and
major
                               resource
affiliated
               sumitomo        consumption,
companies
               forestry home   resource        promotion of         number of sumstock
                                                                                               9 units           12 units
               service co.,    recycling,      re-use of housing    house transactions
               ltd.            industrial
                               waste




                                                                  118

   fiscal 2009 activity plans and results
 reducing co2 emissions
                                                                         :target achieved   :target almost achieved        :target not achieved

 key initiatives          fy2009 plan                fy2009 results            self-assessment          fy2010 plan                   unit

                                                  offices achieved a
                                                  significant reduction of
                                                  11.5% compared to
                                                  base year.                                     continue efforts under
                   by the end of fiscal 2010,
                                                  re-evaluation of the                           the new co2 emissions
                   compared to fiscal 2006
                                                  targets for plants in                          reduction targets in
                     offices: reduce total
                                                  japan and overseas was                         fy2010. especially at
                     emissions by 12%
                                                  conducted in december                          plants in japan and
                     plants in japan: reduce
                                                  2009 due to the                                overseas, implement            group
                     emissions per sales unit
                                                  difficulty in ascertaining                     target management using
                     by 5%
                                                  the actual status of                           indicators that allow
                     plants outside of japan:
                                                  reduction efforts as a                         easier discovery of the
                     reduce emissions per
                                                  result of the use of net                       status of reduction
reduction of         sales unit by 20%
                                                  sales as the base unit,                        activities.
co2 emissions
                                                  which is easily impacted
                                                  by the effects of
                                                  economic recession.

                                                switched to energy-saving
                                                lighting in showrooms and
                                                model homes and use of
                   reduce total emissions by    fuel-efficient                                   continue efforts to
                                                                                                                                housing
                   2.4% compared with           company-owned vehicles.                          reduce consumption of
                                                                                                                                division
                   fy2006.                      as a result, a large                             electricity and gasoline.
                                                decrease in co2 emissions
                                                of 9.5% compared with
                                                fy2006 was achieved.

                                                started display of carbon
                   visualization of co2
introduction of                                 footprint on                                     conduct lca surveys, and
                   emissions volume through                                                                                     rpi
lca                                             particleboards                                   revise carbon footprint.
                   lca
                                                manufactured.




                                                                       119

  zero emissions

  key initiatives            fy2009 plan               fy2009 results           self-assessment          fy2010 plan                  unit

                                                    targets were not
                                                    achieved due to
                                                    insufficient recycling
                                                    routes, despite zero                          continue efforts to
                                                    emissions efforts                             achieve zero emissions at
                      continue efforts to reach     undertaken at each                            domestic manufacturing
                      zero emissions by march       facility generating                           units and new
                      2010 for plants, new          industry waste.                               construction sites based     group
                      housing construction          examined the zero                             on the scope and
                      sites, etc.                   emissions effort,                             definition of zero
                                                    reevaluated the                               emissions as reevaluated
                                                    definition and scope of                       in fy2009.
                                                    zero emissions as it
                                                    should be undertaken by
 attainment of
                                                    the group.
 zero emissions
                                                                                                  consider drastic measures
                      carry out initiatives to
                                                  despite efforts at each                         including use of an inter-
                      achieve zero emissions                                                                                   housing
                                                  branch, target was not                          region recovery and
                      with a recycling rate of                                                                                 division
                                                  achieved.                                       recycling certification
                      98%.
                                                                                                  system.

                                                  target achieved through
                                                                                                  endeavour to achieve zero
                                                  visualization of separation
                                                                                                  emissions at all plants,
                      engage in zero emissions    of management, and
                                                                                                  despite increase in          sumitomo
                      efforts with a target of    implementation of
                                                                                                  number of plants to be       forestry crest
                      98% recycling overall at    environmental education,
                                                                                                  managed due to merger        co., ltd.
                      four plants.                which raised
                                                                                                  with former toyo plywood
                                                  consciousness of industry
                                                                                                  co., ltd.
                                                  waste management.

                                                  launched full operations                        increase production
                      develop and manufacture     of roadbed material                             volume through
 re-use of waste
                      roadbed materials from      manufacturing business,                         improvements to the          rpi
 materials
                      incinerator ash.            achieved target                                 roadbed material press
                                                  production volumes.                             machines.

                      reduce pellet purchases
 promotion of         to zero through effective   target of zero pellets                          continue effective use of
                                                                                                                               asti
 recycling            use of offcuts from pb      purchased achieved.                             offcuts in pellets, etc.
                      and mdf. *

* pb: particleboard
 mdf: medium density fiberboard




                                                                        120

 sustainability of timber resources

 key initiatives           fy2009 plan                 fy2009 results           self-assessment            fy2010 plan                 unit

                                                 conducted investigations
                                                                                                  maintain 100% level of
                   confirm legal compliance      and confirmed compliance                                                       timber &
                                                                                                  compliance for all directly
                   of all suppliers outside      for all timber and wood                                                        building
                                                                                                  imported timber and wood
                   japan, continuing on from     products directly                                                              materials
                                                                                                  products handled by the
                   fy2007.                       imported from overseas                                                         division
                                                                                                  group.
promotion of                                     suppliers.
green
procurement                                      conducted investigations
                                                                                                  maintain 100%
                   ensure 100% of                and confirmed compliance
                                                                                                  compliance by conducting      real estate
                   manufacturers comply          with green procurement
                                                                                                  investigations each time      business
                   with green procurement        guidelines when setting
                                                                                                  new designated materials      division
                   guidelines.                   all new designated
                                                                                                  are set.
                                                 materials.

                                                                                                  work to increase
                   increase percentage of        while the utilization ratio
                                                                                                  percentage of imported
                   imported plywood made         increased as customer                                                          timber &
                                                                                                  plywood made from
                   from certified and            awareness of certified and                                                     building
                                                                                                  certified and plantation
                   plantation timber to 35%      plantation timber grew,                                                        materials
                                                                                                  timber to 50% of total
                   or more of total imported     achievement fell short of                                                      division
sustainable                                                                                       imported plywood
                   plywood volume.               target.
timber and                                                                                        handled.
certified timber
initiatives                                      increased share of
                                                                                                  maintain share of certified
                   increase share of certified   certified and plantation
                                                                                                  and plantation timber
                   and plantation timber         timber used in all                                                             kowa lumber
                                                                                                  used in all products at
                   used in all products to       products to 96% of total                                                       co., ltd.
                                                                                                  96% of total log
                   91% of log transactions.      volume of log
                                                                                                  transactions.
                                                 transactions.


 preserving biodiversity

 key initiatives           fy2009 plan                fy2009 results            self-assessment          fy2010 plan                   unit

                                                 conducted and completed                          conduct monitoring
                   set plans for monitoring
preserving                                       monitoring surveys at                            surveys at                    forestry
                   of biodiversity and
biodiversity                                     company-owned forests                            company-owned forests         department
                   conduct surveys.
                                                 in hyuga.                                        in hokkaido.


 management of hazardous materials

 key initiatives            fy2009 plan                fy2009 results           self-assessment            fy2010 plan                 unit

                                                  confirmed no soil
                                                                                                  continue strict
                                                  contamination at time of
                                                                                                  enforcement of soil
comprehensive       strict enforcement of soil    land acquisition. soil
                                                                                                  contamination                 real estate
soil                contamination                 contamination
                                                                                                  countermeasures in            business
contamination       countermeasure rules          countermeasure rules
                                                                                                  accordance with revised       division
countermeasures     when land is acquired.        revised to address both
                                                                                                  soil contamination
                                                  company and joint
                                                                                                  countermeasure rules.
                                                  venture properties.

strict
                    regularly confirm                                                             continue zero incidents       tsukuba
management of
                    appropriate handling of       zero incidents                                  related to handling of        research
hazardous
                    chemicals and reagents.                                                       chemicals and reagents.       institute
materials

                                                                                                  continue efforts to
                                                                                                  reduce emissions of
                    reduce emissions of
                                                                                                  chemical substances
reduction of        chemical substances           none of the three plants                                                      former toyo
                                                                                                  stipulated by the
emissions of        stipulated by the             achieved target due to                                                        plywood co.,
                                                                                                  pollutant release and
toxic chemicals     pollutant release and         technological difficulties.                                                   ltd.
                                                                                                  transfer register law
                    transfer register law.
                                                                                                  through changes in the
                                                                                                  production lines, etc.




                                                                      121

 effective use of water resources

 key initiatives            fy2009 plan                fy2009 results          self-assessment              fy2010 plan                unit

                                                 reduced 12% of total
                    achieve a 6% reduction in
                                                 industrial water used                             advance the plan even
reduction of        the amount of industrial                                                                                    former toyo
                                                 compared with fy2008,                             further and achieve a 6%
industrial water    water used per base unit                                                                                    plywood co.,
                                                 due to the reduction of                           reduction compared with
used                of manufacturing volume,                                                                                    ltd.
                                                 industrial water related to                       fy2009.
                    compared with fy2008.
                                                 waste water treatment.


 environmental management

 key initiatives            fy2009 plan                fy2009 results          self-assessment              fy2010 plan                unit

                    implement education
                    programs that explain the
                    importance and structure
enhancement                                      implemented
                    of the group's                                                                continue environmental
and promotion                                    environmental education                                                        personnel
                    environmental                                                                 education programs for
of environmental                                 programs for all                                                               department
                    management system for                                                         mid-career hires.
education                                        mid-career hires.
                    mid-career hires, aiming
                    to increase environmental
                    consciousness.


 research and development

 key initiatives            fy2009 plan                fy2009 results          self-assessment              fy2010 plan                unit

development of      through the effective use     progress was made in
                                                                                                   continue research and        tsukuba
environmentally     of natural energy,            several areas but overall
                                                                                                   development activities in    research
symbiotic           propose housing with low      progress was 67% of
                                                                                                   each area.                   institute
technology          environmental impact.         target.

reduction of
                    propose                       proof of concept and
environmental                                                                                                                   housing
                    energy-independent            testing of residential                           continue research.
impact of                                                                                                                       division
                    housing.                      storage battery systems.
housing


 promotion of environmental businesses

 key initiatives            fy2009 plan               fy2009 results           self-assessment              fy2010 plan                unit

                                                                                                  commercialize products
                                                   3% reduction compared                          that utilize used activated
effective
                                                   to previous period,                            carbon, such as
utilization of      achieve 2% increase in
                                                   target not achieved.                           landscaping soil and soil
used activated      the amount of used                                                                                          sumirin
                                                   applied for a patent for                       improvement materials,
carbon from         activated carbon utilized,                                                                                  agro-products
                                                   research results from                          expand routes to market,
water               compared to previous                                                                                        co., ltd.
                                                   joint research                                 and aim for 2% increase of
purification        year.
                                                   conducted with tokyo                           the amount used
plants
                                                   metropolis.                                    compared to the previous
                                                                                                  year.

                    sale of furniture made                                                        expand sales proactively
effective use of
                    from timber from forest      achieved 66% of target                           to major interior design      housing
wood leftover
                    thinning in monbetsu,        sales volume.                                    fairs held across the         division
from logging
                    hokkaido.                                                                     nation.


 environmental activities in offices

 key initiatives            fy2009 plan                fy2009 results           self-assessment              fy2010 plan               unit

reduction of
                    each unit to set and                                                           each unit to set targets
environmental                                     the group's overall green
                    achieve percentage                                                             and continue efforts to
impact of offices                                 purchasing ratio was                −                                          group
                    targets for green                                                              increase green
(green                                            67.6%.
                    purchasing.                                                                    purchasing.
purchasing, etc.)




                                                                     122

    initiatives at group companies: sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd.
sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. has set many environmental targets directly linked to its business activities, as
well as sharing the sumitomo forestry group's targets of co2 emission reduction and achievement of zero emissions. in
fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry landscaping achieved 26 out of 38 targets.

as specific examples, the residential landscaping department promoted landscaping as part of housing exterior
construction projects, identified the number of native trees as a first step to preservation of biodiversity, and launched
the “harmonic plants™” line of biodiversity-friendly plants for landscaping. in addition, the materials department
promoted the sale of ecologically friendly products made from recycled materials, worked to confirm legal compliance of
all wooden materials used, and achieved targets. the environmental landscaping department and ai-green department,
as part of strict enforcement of handling of hazardous materials, conducted research into methods of reducing
agricultural chemical usage, and worked to increase the share of non-agricultural-chemical agents sprayed on plants, etc.

in fiscal 2010, the tenth meeting of the conference of the parties (cop 10) to the convention on biological diversity will
be convened in nagoya and biodiversity is receiving an increasing amount of attention. the company will also actively
endeavor to set and achieve biodiversity targets such as increasing the share of native plants used in residential
landscaping projects.




sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. safety
and environment promotion department, general
                   manager
            kazushi ge hi ray ama




                                                           123

    fiscal 2009 activity plans and results
sumitomo forestry calculates and publicizes the costs and benefits of its environmental conservation activities to
promote environmentally sound management.

* the basis of calculation includes sumitomo forestry on a non-consolidated basis and certain affiliated companies.

  environmental protection costs
                                                                                                                              unit: million yen

                   cost category                                                     main activities                                     cost

                           pollution prevention
                                                     soil contamination countermeasures                                                     11
                           costs1


                           global environmental      sustainable forestry cultivation                                                      562

                           protection costs2         overseas reforestation consultancy                                                     32

 1. operations costs
                                                     promotion of appropriate treatment, reduction, and recycling of industrial
                                                                                                                                         3,504
                                                     waste
                           resource recycling
                                                     waste woodchip distribution operations                                                165
                           costs3
                                                     environment-related business (such as potting mix using sediment from
                                                                                                                                           597
                                                     water purification plants)

                                                     operation and promotion of environmental management（iso 14001
                                                                                                                                            32
                                                     certification, etc.)

                                                     disclosure and administration of environmental information (environmental
                                                     and social report, environment-related advertising, environment-related             1,198
 2. management activity costs4                       exhibitions, etc.)

                                                     green procurement and green purchasing                                                205

                                                     deliberation on methods for reducing co2 emissions using lca                           13

                                                     environmental education                                                                    7

 3. r&d costs 5                                      research and development activities related to environmental conservation             413

                                                     management and operation of mt. fuji manabi no mori                                    27

                                                     management and operation of forester house                                             13
 4. social contribution costs 6
                                                     participation in other social contribution activities                                      2

                                                     grants to the keidanren nature conservation fund, etc.                                     2

 total                                                                                                                                   6,784


1 pollution prevention costs: consultancy fees for soil contamination countermeasures, and expenditures on soil contamination inspections.
2 global environmental protection costs: expenditures for preservation and management of company-owned forests to foster sustainable
  forestry, and expenditures in japan and overseas relating to indonesian reforestation consultancy.
3 resource recycling costs: expenditures on waste wood distribution operations and sorting, recycling, appropriate treatment,
  transportation and management of construction waste, as well as costs incurred in the potting mix business.
4 management activity costs: office expenses and auditing costs relating to maintenance of iso 14001 certification; expenditures relating
  to disclosure of environmental information through advertising, environment-related exhibitions and the environmental and social reports;
  expenditures relating to lectures on environmental education; and costs for life cycle assessment inspections.
5 r&d costs: expenditures for environment-related research conducted at the tsukuba research institute, and expenditures for outsourced
  research and development by each division.
6 social contribution costs: expenditures related to operating the mt. fuji manabi no mori natural forest restoration project; expenditures
  related to maintaining and operating forester house; expenditures related to other social contribution activities; and grants to the
  keidanren nature conservation fund and other contributions.




                                                                     124

 environmental benefits

               category                                                       description                                       results

                                           volume of recycled waste wood from distribution operations (converted into chip       815,181
                                           equivalents)                                                                                m3
1. benefits from operations costs
                                                                                                                                  24,600
                                           volume sold of potting mix using recycled sediment from water purification
                                                                                                                                      tons

2. benefits from management activity
                                           employees designated as internal environmental auditors                              66 people
costs

                                           sales of environmentally sound plywood kikorin-plywood                                 −

                                           three myforest models, including myforest-taiju, were selected as excellent
3. benefits from research and                                                                                                     −
                                           long-term house leading model projects, continuing an achievement from fy2008
development costs
                                           successful propagation of camellia trees at reiganji temple in kyoto and sasanqua
                                                                                                                                  −
                                           tree at ankokuronji temple in kamakura

                                           volunteers who participated in mt. fuji manabi no mori project                      298 people

                                           children participating in the environmental education program at mt. fuji manabi
                                                                                                                               573 people
4. benefits of social contribution costs   no mori project

                                                                                                                                   3,425
                                           visitors to forester house
                                                                                                                                   people




                                                                   125

sumitomo forestry calculates the input of resources and energy as well as the emissions of co2 and waste over the life
cycle of products in each business to determine the environmental impact of its business activities and to develop
effective means of reducing the emissions and waste.

    environmental impact of business activities




                                                         126

    life cycle assessments
sumitomo forestry believes that an accurate understanding of key issues in its business activities is crucial to the pursuit
of environmentally sound business activities and the creation of a sustainable society. accordingly, the sumitomo
forestry group has been carrying out life cycle assessments (lca) since fiscal 2006 to identify the environmental
impact of all of its business activities. lca is a method of comprehensively evaluating environmental impacts of a
product throughout its life cycle, including raw material procurement, manufacture, transportation, sale, use, re-use and
disposal.

in fiscal 2007, sumitomo forestry carried out an inventory analysis1 of structural plywood, staircases and countertops
to raise the accuracy of lca for a single house. the analysis demonstrated that structural plywood made from japanese
timber emitted less co2 from procurement, transportation and processing than imported timber. accordingly, sumitomo
forestry crest co., ltd. began displaying carbon footprints2 on plywood made of japanese timber in may 2009 at its
komatsushima plant. this program to display carbon footprints on wood products is a first in japan. going forward, we
will research all carbon footprints of the products which are manufactured at this facility.

from october 2009, pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi) began displaying the carbon footprints on the particleboard
products they manufacture and sell. this marks the first time that an indonesian company has labeled timber products.
rpi particleboard products make effective use of resources, using wood leftover from logging, sawdust, and timber from
company-owned plantations. further, the company's products are manufactured using low carbon emission methods,
including the use of electricity from a wood biomass power generation facility.

in addition, in fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry set up an lca database related to the harvesting of logs at all stages,
from cutting underbrush to taking away the logs. surveys of fuel consumption for machines used to harvest the timber,
as well as fuel consumption for transportation to markets have been completed, and the data will be tabulated to clarify
the lca of log harvesting in the forestry management.

1 analysis of the input (energy, materials, etc.) and output (gas emissions, waste, etc.) of a product over its life cycle, from manufacture to
  disposal.
2 greenhouse gases emitted during the entire life cycle of the product and service, from procurement of raw materials to disposal and
  recycling, are converted to co2 to present the data in a more understandable manner.




                                                                     127

carbon footprints of plywood made from japanese and imported timber manufactured at the komatsushima plant of sumitomo forestry
crest




comparison of carbon footprints before and after installation of wood biomass power generation facility (particleboard manufactured by
rpi)




                                                                128

    environmental impact from the construction of a new house




    contribution to expanding carbon stocks
carbon stocks refer to the co2 that is stored in the atmosphere, forests and oceans. these stocks play a major role in
curbing global warming. as trees grow, they absorb co2 from the atmosphere and sequester it as carbon. when trees
are harvested and processed into products, they continue to store carbon. co2 is only released when the wooden
materials are incinerated at the end of their life cycle.

when mature trees are harvested and used as building materials, the co2 sequestered in the trees is stored for a long
period of time. this means that building wooden houses can be likened to creating forests in the city. the carbon stocks
of the sumitomo forestry group's timber used for housing construction in fiscal 2009 was equivalent to 194,000 tons
of co2, about the amount of co2 emitted by approximately 38,000 households over one year.

the sumitomo forestry group promotes the use of timber from sustainably managed forests in the construction of its
high-quality, long-lasting wood houses and for the wooden building materials it uses. the group also encourages the
re-use and recycling of timber resources. such initiatives will contribute to reducing the effects of global warming by
expanding carbon stocks in the form of timber.




                                                          129

                          2
as global warming becomes an increasingly serious issue, reducing co2 emissions has become an urgent matter. the
sumitomo forestry group will make a positive contribution to this task by seeking to reduce co2 emissions from its
business activities and the houses occupied by its customers, and by facilitating absorption of co2 through proper forest
management.

    global warming and sumitomo forestry's role
co2 emissions are continuing to rise on a global basis. the fourth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on
climate change (ipcc) states that global warming is very likely due to increased greenhouse gas concentrations caused
by human activity. the report projects that by the end of the 21st century the global average temperature will increase
by 1.1– 6.4℃ compared to the average between 1980 and 1999. to prevent such a scenario, the 2009 g8 summit at
l'aquila set the targets of a 50% reduction of greenhouse gases globally and an 80% reduction by the developed
nations by 2050, aiming to limit atmospheric temperature rises to two degrees or less. in december, the 15th
conference of the parties (cop 15) to the united nations framework convention on climate change agreed to
implement reduction activities by not only developed nations but also developing nations, and to provide financial
assistance to developing nations for those activities, making the effort to reduce greenhouse gases a truly global
endeavor.

japan's co2 emissions in fiscal 2008 were 1.6% higher than in 1990, and companies are being required to enact
concrete measures, including strengthened legal regulations, to achieve the reduction targets agreed in the kyoto
protocol. in addition, the government of japan announced in september 2009 that, by 2020, japan would reduce its
greenhouse gases by 25% compared to 1990.

the sumitomo forestry group will make a positive contribution by reducing co2 emissions from its business activities
while facilitating absorption of co2 through proper forest management. as a housing provider, the group recognizes its
important responsibility to help reduce co2 emissions from the household sector, which currently account for about 14%
of japan's total emissions and which are increasing each year.

                          while the prevention of global warming is a universal challenge, i want sumitomo forestry to point the way as
                          a leader in the housing industry. (sales partner)
                          i think that trees can play a major role in reducing co2 emissions. i expect sumitomo forestry to lead the way
                          in finding solutions to global warming as a company whose primary business is forestry. (student)




    reducing the effects of business operations on global warming
the sumitomo forestry group is working to reduce co2 emissions through its business activities at offices and plants as
a countermeasure to global warming. in fiscal 2009, the group reduced its energy consumption through initiatives for
daily business activities, including environmentally sound driving and saving electricity, and sumitomo forestry crest co.,
ltd. reduced energy consumed during inspections at each of its plants.

co 2 emission reduction targets
sumitomo forestry has endeavored to reduce co2 emissions, by setting five-year targets for fiscal years 2006 to 2010
in three areas of operation: offices, plants in japan, and plants overseas.

in december 2009, however, the group revised the co2 reduction targets in the environmental management mid-term
plan due to the difficulty of determining the actual status of co2 reduction activities per sales unit shared by plants in
japan and overseas, which is easily impacted by economic downturns.

the new targets for plants in japan have been set using appropriate base units for each plant, resulting in indicators that
enable much easier management of reduction efforts at the production stage. further, targets and management
indicators for total emissions, emissions per sales unit, and/or other measures as appropriate to each plant have been
set in consideration of local laws and regulations.

at the current time, the mid-term targets are set for fiscal 2014. we will continue to consider setting of long-term
targets in consideration of the japanese government's movement to set targets for reduction of greenhouse gases, as
well as deliberations at the global level.


                                                                 130

            the medium-term environmental management plan
            new co 2 emission reduction targets

    offices              by fy2010, achieve a 12% reduction in overall emissions compared with fy2006, and
                         maintain this level to 2014.

    plants in            by fy2014, achieve an 8% reduction in base units1 compared with fy2006.
    japan

    plants               set targets for each plant in consideration of local laws and regulations, including overall
    outside japan        emissions, emissions per unit sold, and/or other targets as appropriate to each plant.

   1 base units are set appropriately for each product line at each plant.




   the medium-term environmental management policy
   old co2 emission reduction targets
    offices                     12% reduction of total emissions by fy2010 from 2006 levels

    plants in japan             5% reduction of emissions per sales unit by fy2010 from 2006 levels

    plants outside japan        20% reduction of emissions per sales unit by fy2010 from 2006 levels



  offices                                                              plants in japan




  plants outside japan




* the results of fiscal 2009 shows only co2 emissions, since the company revised reduction targets in the environmental management
 mid-term plan in december 2009.




                                                                     131

reducing co 2 emissions from plants: wood biomass power generation facility
installed at rpi
rpi is a particleboard plant located in central java, indonesia. the plant was established as a joint venture between
sumitomo forestry and local businesses in 1990. rpi is making an effort to reduce co2 emissions by switching from
conventional diesel-based power generation to wood biomass power generation, which mainly uses offcuts and sawdust
from sawmills near the plant as fuel.

through the use of the wood biomass power generation facility, which went into full operation in june 2008, rpi achieved
a 10,033 t-co2 reduction in co2 emissions in fiscal 2009, compared with fiscal 2007. moreover, the united nation's
cdm executive board registered this initiative as a clean development mechanism (cdm) project in may 2008.

 co2 emissions by rpi




reducing co 2 emissions from offices
in order to reduce the co2 generated by offices, the sumitomo forestry group sets common targets across all group
companies and continues to advance its efforts in its offices to the greatest possible extent.

at the company's model homes and showrooms across japan, we began from fiscal 2008 to switch over to
environmentally sound lighting systems. in fiscal 2009, we began turning off the daytime lighting (on second floors) in
model homes across the nation when customers are not present.

from fiscal 2009, in order to reduce co2 output from offices, we specifically focused on activities to reduce the amount
of electricity and gasoline used in daily business.

   energy conservation in offices(p.170)




reducing co 2 emissions from transportation
sumitomo forestry improved its distribution systems in fiscal 2007 to more efficiently transport materials from
manufacturers to housing construction sites. construction materials previously shipped directly from manufacturers to
construction sites are now collected first at regional relay centers. mixed-load shipments containing materials from
different manufacturers are then delivered to construction sites. this streamlining of material deliveries to construction
sites results in fewer delivery trucks and lower co2 emissions.

the company established 28 relay centers nationwide, and reduced co2 emissions equivalent to the emissions of
142,443 vehicles in fiscal 2009.




                                                           132

 streamlining transportation




                       i'd like to know in concrete terms how much co2 is saved from the reduction of activities for your transportation
                       vehicles. i think it's a worthwhile effort and would like to know more. (customer)




participating in japan's trial integrated emissions trading market
in october 2008, the government of japan launched an integrated emissions trading market on a trial basis with a view
toward adopting full-scale emissions trading in japan. currently, there are 521 participant companies with set targets
(including 392 industry associations, federations, and other organizations), 68 companies participating in trading of
emissions credits, and 126 companies participating as emissions-reducing entities in the domestic clean development
mechanism, for a total for 715 companies (as of july 6, 2009). sumitomo forestry is the only company from the
housing industry participating in the trial emissions trading scheme. participant companies establish and pursue a
voluntary goal for reducing co2 emissions. in addition to undertaking their own efforts to reduce emissions, the
participants help reduce japan's co2 emissions by trading emission allowances and credits. in november 2009, the
company's fiscal 2008 performance against targets was audited and verified, and the achievement of targets
confirmed.



    reducing the environmental impact of households

considerations for reducing the environmental impact of housing
throughout the entire life cycle of a house, from materials production to demolition, energy consumption during
occupancy has the greatest impact on the environment. energy use during the occupancy stage can reach as high as
70–80% of energy consumption over the life cycle. the nearly 10,000 houses built annually by sumitomo forestry emit
approximately 63,000 tons of co2 per year. the key to reducing the environmental impact of housing is a matter of how
to reduce energy consumption during occupancy.

sumitomo forestry is tackling this issue with its ryouonbou natural heating and cooling design concept, the use of
insulation and air-tightness specifications exceeding next-generation energy conservation standards, and the use of
natural energy, such as solar energy, for power generation and water heating.

   providing environmentally friendly homes(p.34)




                       i expect sumitomo forestry's houses to be equipped with features that can help reduce environmental impact.
                       (ngo)




                                                                 133

 reducing energy use through the ryouonbou design concept
the ryouonbou design concept draws on the wisdom and techniques of japan's traditional houses to effectively take
advantage of nature's blessings and offer a housing style that enables people to live comfortably while limiting energy
consumption.

the ryouonbou concept is based on three design principles for creating housing that is cool in the summer and warm in
the winter. kaze no sekkei wind design provides a refreshing coolness in the summer by blocking sunlight and creating
airflow that channels the summer heat outside. taiyo no sekkei sun design allows winter sunshine into the house and
prevents heat from escaping, keeping the indoors warm. midori no sekkei greenery design provides comfortable living
throughout the seasons by utilizing garden vegetation to create a natural temperature control system.

research on a model house demonstrated that the ryouonbou design concept could reduce co2 emissions during
occupancy by about 40%1 compared to houses built to specifications mandated by 1992 energy conservation
standards.

1 this figure only applies to emissions attributable to heating and cooling.

                          i recommend that sumitomo forestry cooperate with ngos and npos when promoting environmentally symbiotic
                          houses. (environmental expert)



  comparison of co2 emissions during occupation (for air conditioning and heating only) using eco assessment charts




                                                                      134

  midori no sekkei




deciduous trees grow thick with leaves in summer, blocking out direct sunlight and creating a cool, shady area of foliage.
in winter, the trees lose their leaves, allowing the sunlight into the rooms.



by planting trees on the north side of the house it is possible to make it cooler in summer. this also has the effect of
protecting the house from the northerly winds.



in addition to blocking out sunlight during summer, the greenery also cools the air. the use of climbing plants such as
bitter melon offers the added benefit of fresh produce.



we recommend trees that suit the individual home and change appearance with the seasons. as well as bringing out the
beauty of a home, greenery also helps blend the building in with its surroundings.




in addition to allowing rainwater to be absorbed in the earth, a green parking space prevents the powerful rays of the
summer sun from being reflected back into the atmosphere, thereby moderating increases in temperature in the area
around the home.



strategically placed foliage in front of windows and other open areas restricts the view in the house from outside and
enhances privacy.




a lawn effectively reduces the reflection of the heat of the sun back into the atmosphere. leaf transpiration, whereby
moisture evaporates from the grass, helps moderate increases in temperature.



by strategically placing trees according to prevailing wind direction, it is possible to obstruct the cold northerly wind in
winter, reduce its force and chill, and divert its direction.

                                                             135

 employing next-generation energy conservation standards
the japanese government has established energy conservation standards geared toward reducing energy consumption
in houses.

sumitomo forestry's standard housing specifications have been based on next-generation energy conservation
standards1 since fiscal 2005. in fiscal 2009, these standards were employed in over 95.7% of the houses built by the
company. the standards also correspond to the highest energy-saving level (level 4) under japan's housing performance
indication system.

1 these refer to the “standards and owner determination of energy usage rationalization pertaining to houses” (notice no. 3 of the
 ministry of economy, trade and industry and the ministry of land, infrastructure and transport [2006]), and “guidelines for design and
 construction of energy usage rationalization systems for houses” (notice no. 378 of the ministry of land, infrastructure and transport
 [2006]).


 growing use of solar energy in houses
employing a solar power system in addition to the ryouonbou design concept can further reduce a house's environmental
impact. sumitomo forestry's myforest-solabo model features a dual power system (solar power system as a standard
feature and a fuel cell that generates electricity and heat from hydrogen and oxygen, and uses the heat generated during
power generation to heat water). in this way, the system can drastically reduce energy consumption and co2 emissions.

in 2008, the ministry of land, infrastructure, transport and tourism chose sumitomo forestry's proposal for maximizing
solar energy use and raising energy self-sufficiency through its w (double) solar system, which combines a solar power
system with a solar hot water system, as a model business promotion of co2 conservation in homes and buildings. a
house based on this model can be expected to save about 150,000 yen per year in heating and lighting expenses, and
generate about 65% less annual co2 emissions than an ordinary house built according to 1992 energy conservation
standards.1

in fiscal 2009, about 20% of all houses sold by sumitomo forestry were equipped with solar power systems. going
forward, we will work even harder to increase the number of homes using solar energy through promoting the sales of the
myforest-solabo model and other lines.

1 an ordinary house built to meet 1992 energy conservation standards is defined as having two floors with a total floor area of
  approximately 130 m2 and occupied by a family of four in tsukuba city, ibaraki prefecture. it is also based on certain assumptions in
  sumitomo forestry's model plan, and could differ from actual conditions.


 solar hot water system developed
water heating accounts for around one-third of an average household's energy consumption. solar hot water systems
that effectively utilize solar energy can therefore contribute enormously to reducing energy consumption and co2
emissions. the development of new products that utilize solar thermal energy, which is more efficient than solar power
generation, has progressed outside japan, where their application is widespread due to the environmental and economic
advantages.

although solar thermal energy use has been slow to spread in japan, sumitomo forestry believes it is a technology that
will become indispensable to society in the future. accordingly, the company worked with an equipment manufacturer to
develop a new solar hot water system. the system uses a roof-mounted solar thermal energy collector containing
medium-heat antifreeze to absorb heat. the antifreeze is fed into a thermal converter in a water storage tank, which
incorporates a gas heater to heat the water. this system ensures a stable and economical hot water supply. moreover,
since the piping is passed through the roof, it does not mar the exterior appearance of the house. the amount of solar
heat used and the amount of money saved are displayed on a remote control, enabling homeowners to check the
system's effectiveness.

the system, which can be installed for less cost than a solar power generation system, is estimated to reduce co2
emissions by at least 30% and save about 30,000 yen annually on processed natural gas expenses for gas water heating
in an ordinary house.1




                                                                    136

  comparison of annual co2 emissions from housing using combined hot water and solar power generation (for heating, cooling, hot water,
  cooking, ventilation, lighting and power outlets)




1 an ordinary house is defined as a two-floor house with a total floor area of 130 m2 and occupied by a family of four in tsukuba city, ibaraki
  prefecture. it is also based on certain assumptions in sumitomo forestry's model plan, and could differ from actual conditions.


 promoting environmentally friendly, energy-saving renovation
with energy consumption by the household sector increasing, steps must be taken to reduce co2 emissions from
day-to-day life. sumitomo forestry home tech. co., ltd. offers environmentally friendly, energy-saving renovation suited
to each customer's home. renovation options include solar power generation systems, the latest water-saving household
appliances for the kitchen and bathroom, and natural ventilation and lighting to reduce reliance on heating and cooling
equipment.

sumitomo forestry home tech is renowned for innovation in renovation technologies that improve the functionality of
the structure, including use of insulation in the walls and floors to conserve energy, conversion to barrier-free layouts,
and seismic retrofitting. nhk television featured two case studies of the company's innovative renovations: energy-
saving renovation and “reduction” renovation, in which a two-story house is converted to a single-story house.

moreover, from fiscal 2009, aiming to contribute to the realization of a world where houses are used long-term and
passed down to the next generation, the company launched the realise reform team in order to further strength its
renovation operations. renovation requires a high degree of technological prowess and specialist knowledge because
each home and each customer's needs are different. the realise reform team is comprised of dedicated specialists from
sales, design, construction, interior design, survey, and after-sales service departments to support each customer's
renovation. this unique team structure enables a swift and precise response to diversifying customer needs, including for
energy-saving and environmentally friendly renovation.




                                                                     137

houses use a large amount of resources, so reducing the use of and recycling those resources are important issues.
sumitomo forestry is striving to achieve zero emissions of industrial waste generated at its plants, new housing
construction sites, and other operations sites by facilitating the recycling of these waste and using building materials
that can be recycled after use.

    policy on resources
building a house requires an enormous amount of resources. approximately 76.2 tons of resources are used for the
principal structural members and building materials that go into a single house built to the company's standard
specifications. aiming to reduce environmental impact and effectively utilize resources, sumitomo forestry recognizes
the importance of focusing on zero emissions initiatives, including reducing the generation of waste, reusing resources,
recycling waste as raw materials, recycling chemicals, and utilizing heat from incinerating waste.

at the time of inputting raw materials, besides reducing the use of resources by eliminating redundant materials and
using components that generate a low amount of offcuts, it is important to use components manufactured from
recycled materials in order to promote the cyclical utilization of resources. sumitomo forestry is applying specific
initiatives for each type of building material to complete the loop of recycling, including using recyclable resources,
thoroughly separating wastes at construction and demolition sites, and using recycled products such as recycled crushed
stones.

                          i think houses being constructed now should last 30–50 years before replacement. when the houses are taken
                          down, the components should be easily separated for re-use. (customer)




    zero emissions initiatives
the sumitomo forestry group started carrying out zero emissions initiatives to advance the recycling of resources in
fiscal 2007. the group has defined zero emissions as not disposing in landfills or simply incinerating all of the industrial
waste generated at manufacturing sites, new housing construction sites and other operations sites (excluding demolition
work sites). quantitatively, this means achieving a recycling rate of at least 98%. all group companies and departments
had been pursuing the goal of a recycling rate of at least 98% for industrial waste by the end of march 2010.

as of march 2010, however, the group's overall recycling ratio was 79.9% despite continuing initiatives, as a number of
issues and problems arose.

the scope and breadth of the sumitomo forestry group's businesses, which include housing construction and related
businesses, renovation, manufacturing, and distribution, inherently makes increasing the recycling rate a challenge.
moreover, all industry waste disposals were being contracted to an external vendor resulting in insufficient recycling
routes, which made increasing the recycling rate difficult.

thus, the group undertook a re-evaluation of its efforts to date, as well as of the definition and scope of “zero
emissions” to identify the top-priority initiatives the group should undertake.



          new definition

   the group will not simply incinerate or bury in landfills all of the industrial waste
   generated from its plants in japan and new housing construction sites.


going forward, based on the new definition, the group will continue zero emissions activities at domestic manufacturing
facilities and re-evaluate the fundamental approach and systems used at new construction sites.1 the group initially aims
to achieve zero emissions in the capital area by december 31, 2012.

1 includes residential landscaping.




                                                                  138

waste reduction at new housing construction sites
in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry achieved a recycling rate of about 83.2% for waste generated at new housing
construction sites.

in fiscal 2008, the housing division started a trial run of an industrial waste traceability system that uses ic chips to
ascertain the actual output of waste from new housing construction sites. ic tags were attached to waste, which was
sorted into 11 categories and collected separately, and the information obtained was sent to the japan industrial waste
technology center via the japan waste network (jwnet electronic manifest) to monitor the movement of the waste.
the system enables accurate measuring of the weight of waste and contributes significantly to preventing inappropriate
disposal. in fiscal 2009, this industrial waste traceability system was installed and operated at ten branches, including the
six branches in the greater tokyo area, mito, kyoto, shiga, and kita-kyushu. going forward, data collected before and
after the installation of this system will be analyzed, enabling the optimization of efforts to control generation of
industrial waste.

the group continues its efforts to limit the generation of industrial waste through the use of pre-cut timber, reducing the
amount of packaging materials used. examples of efforts in this area include use of pre-cut lumber for soffits (the
underside of eaves) and gables and setting the dimensions of the eaves to minimize end-cuts from materials used to
finish the underside of the home's eaves. in addition, the practicality and costs of pre-cutting ceramic roof tiles, sidings,
and panels for exterior reinforcement are being investigated for future deployment.

recycling of waste materials such as siding, roof tiles, and composite wastes—not simple incineration or burying in
landfills — is a major issue in the pursuit of zero emissions. the company is also exploring the possibility of obtaining
“inter-region recovery and recycling certification” used by nichiha corporation and kubota matsushitadenko exterior
works, ltd., which are manufacturers of siding and slate roofs that the company hopes to recycle.

  volume of industrial waste from new detached housing (fy2009)




waste reduction at plants
zero emissions (98% or higher recycling ratio) was achieved at the group's plants, as a result of continuing efforts to
achieve zero emissions by march 2010 at the plants operated by sumitomo forestry crest, the former toyo plywood,
and sumirin agro-products.

  volume of waste generated at plants (fy2009)




                                                                  139

waste reduction in other businesses
industrial waste is generated by a wide range of corporate activity, including research facilities, renovation work,
landscaping and greening work, and repair work for rental properties, and the distribution business. in these areas as well,
the group set performance targets for zero emissions and endeavored to achieve those targets, but was not able to
achieve them in fiscal 2009.

 volume of industrial waste from other businesses (fy2009)




    proper disposal of demolition waste
sumitomo forestry demolished nearly 2,100 old houses in fiscal 2009 to make room for new housing construction,
generating some 93,000 tons of waste in the process. recognizing the importance of keeping waste materials in
circulation, the company has strived to improve recycling even before the enactment of the construction waste
recycling law, by thoroughly dismantling, sorting, and separately disposing of waste materials. the company has
achieved a nearly 100% recycling rate for concrete and metal waste and a 98% recycling rate for wood waste. the
present challenge is developing recycling routes for roofing tiles, glass, ceramics, gypsum board, and other composite
waste, as there is still no effective means of recycling these materials.

 volume of demolition waste (fy2009)




                                                             140

    resource recycling

recycling of wood waste
offcuts from the timber milling process and waste wood from new housing construction and demolition sites can be
turned into wood chips for use in papermaking and particleboard or as biofuel. sumitomo forestry has created its own
recycling routes for facilitating the distribution of wood chips by employing the networks it has developed through its
timber distribution business.

 volume of wood chips handled (thousand m3）




researching the effective utilization of used activated carbon
for the past two years (fiscal 2008–2009), sumirin agro-products has conducted joint research with the tokyo
metropolitan government bureau of waterworks to develop potting media for agriculture and horticulture and a soil
improvement agent for landscaping, both made with used activated carbon from drinking water treatment plants. the
bureau uses an advanced water purification process that combines ozone treatment with biologically activated carbon.
this system uses large quantities of activated carbon in the processes of reducing organic material and deodorization.
used activated carbon needs to be replaced with new carbon due to age–related deterioration. the bureau forecasts
that it will generate approximately 5,000 m3 of used activated carbon in fiscal 2010, for which it needs an effective use.

this research demonstrated that used activated carbon effectively promoted plant growth when used as potting media
for agriculture and horticulture, as a soil improvement agent for landscaping, and as a raw material for foundation
materials. sumirin agro-products and the tokyo metropolis have applied for a patent on these research results. going
forward, the company plans to commercialize and expand sales channels for potting media and soil improvement agents
using used activated carbon.




                                                           141

sumitomo forestry procures sustainable timber resources, actively uses japanese timber and is expanding its
reforestation efforts outside japan to ensure that forest resources are available in perpetuity.

* definitions for english translations of shokurin. the terms below are used with the following definitions throughout this
report.

reforestation: the re-planting of trees on land that had previously been forested but lost its forest cover, due to
harvesting or forest death.

afforestation: the planting of trees on land that had never been forested, or the re-planting of trees on land that had
been forested several hundreds of years ago.

    conservation and sustainable use of timber resources




[cultivation]
   the sumitomo forestry group owns forests with a total area of 42,642 hectares within japan and, outside of japan,
   manages forests with a total area of approximately 37,000 hectares. forests perform a number of functions for the
   public good, including conserving national land, cultivating water resources, curbing global warming by absorbing co2,
   and preserving biodiversity. these functions can be enhanced by appropriate forestry management including clearing
   away of underbrush, pruning, and thinning.

   forests absorb co2 then retain it as carbon. the carbon stock of the sumitomo forestry group forests in japan was
   10.5 million t-co2, and 3.6 million t-co2 overseas.




                                                            142

[harvesting]
  in fiscal 2009, the sumitomo forestry group harvested approximately 220,000 m3 of trees. the harvested trees
  were milled and processed, then provided to the world in a variety of applications, including housing and furniture. in
  some cases, for example structural members used in houses, the timber will be used for decades. even after trees are
  processed into products, the wood continues to retain co2 as carbon. thus, it can be said that using wooden
  products and building wood-construction homes are activities that “create forests in cities.”



          carbon stock in housing

   one sumitomo ringyo no ie (sumitomo forestry home) house has a
   carbon stock of about 22.6 t-co2, and the carbon stock of all
   houses constructed by the company in fiscal 2009 totaled
   approximately 194,000 t-co2.

   1 carbon stock of the timber used in building houses in fiscal 2009.




[usage]
  wood products don't become waste after just one use. for example, in the case of wood-construction homes, the
  lumber can be re-used after demolition as wooden materials such as boards. wood chips resulting from that process,
  and wood that can no longer be used, can still be used as wood fuel. this is called cascade usage and is a way to use
  wood completely and totally. in this way, carbon is retained until wood products are used as biomass fuel to create
  electricity.

   establishment of biomass power generation company and wood fuel chip supply company(p.169)




[plantation]
  just harvesting trees and using the timber means forestry resources will be diminished. sumitomo forestry always
  plants and cultivates new trees after harvesting trees to ensure sustainability of forest resources.
  in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry planted forests in japan with a total area of approximately 49 hectares and 4,300
  hectares overseas.


                                                                   143

   from a carbon stock perspective, during the time wood products used in cities are retaining carbon, newly planted
   trees grow, absorb co2, and retain carbon. company-owned forests and the carbon retained in the homes we build
   thus increase the carbon stock and contribute to counteracting global warming.



    conservation and sustainable use of japanese timber resources
the depletion and devastation of forests has become a global issue. as a timber distributor and owner of approximately
42,600 hectares of forest, sumitomo forestry believes that it has an important role to play in ensuring the sustainability
of timber resources. the company will continue to promote the use of sustainable timber by capitalizing on its
accumulated forest management expertise and on the results of its research and development efforts related to trees
and wood.

                          japan's forestry industry is in decline. i'd like to see sumitomo forestry take the initiative in reviving this industry
                          in japan. (customer)



 management of company-owned forests
sumitomo forestry's company-owned forests located in hokkaido, shikoku, kyushu and wakayama cover a total area of
42,642 hectares (about 1/900 of japan's land area). these forests are managed in an environmentally sound and
sustainable manner.

forests perform a number of functions for the public good, including conserving national land, cultivating water
resources, curbing global warming by absorbing co2, and preserving biodiversity. these benefits can be enhanced with
proper forest management. unlike fossil fuels, the cycle of reforestation, thinning, harvesting and re-planting makes it
possible to use forests as a renewable resource.

sumitomo forestry-owned forests acquired certification from japan's sustainable green ecosystem council (sgec)1 in
september 2006, meaning that a third party has verified that the forests are properly managed. in fiscal 2009, the
forests were inspected for the third time since earning forestry certification, and it was determined that sumitomo
forestry has taken appropriate measures to preserve biodiversity, among other issues. in addition, 973.5 hectares of
forests acquired in kyushu and shikoku through april 2009 were also certified by sgec.

the company's management practices consider the ecosystems and surrounding environment, and include methods for
appropriate thinning and small-area clear cutting, which enable efficient harvesting of trees, followed by reforestation.
these practices ensure sustainable forest management.

1 japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by third parties. certification is
 based on seven standards that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources.

  distribution and area covered by sumitomo forestry-owned forests (as of march 31, 2010)




    ensuring traceability of timber(p.88)            initiatives to preserve biodiversity(p.59)           preserving biodiversity(p.151)




                                                                      144

effective use of company-owned forests through joint operations
to maximize the functionality of forests, proper maintenance of forests—clearing away of underbrush, pruning, and
thinning—is vital, but in japan, the large number of owners holding small parcels of land makes it difficult to do so
efficiently.

as a result, maintenance of forests and usage of domestic timber are delayed, diminishing the vitality of forests and
creating a significant problem. to address this situation, sumitomo forestry launched efforts to create greater
efficiencies by facilitating multiple owners of forests to manage forests cooperatively.

joint operations with owners of large forests
in october 2009, sumitomo forestry, oji paper co., ltd., and oji forest & products co., ltd. signed a memorandum of
understanding to engage in joint utilization of forestry resources centered around each of the three company's forests.

the three companies are jointly engaged in two projects involving active use of sgec-certified timber from hokkaido,
and a joint forestry operations area in ehime prefecture—leveraging technology and expertise accumulated over many
years of forestry management, as part of an integrated, upstream-to-downstream initiative. we aspire to fulfill our
responsibility to society as the largest private-sector owner of forests in japan by realizing the renewal of japan's
forests by innovating new private-sector-led business models. this project is the first time that private-sector
companies owning large forests have concluded a memorandum of understanding for joint forestry operations.

  overview of operations

                                           sgec-certified logs harvested from forests owned by sumitomo forestry (monbetsu area) and
                                           oji paper group (soya and engaru areas) will be processed by sgec-certified entities (processing
 active use of sgec-certified timber
                                           facilities that have been certified by sgec for classification, separation, and labeling), and
 from hokkaido
                                           finished into high-quality structural members made of engineered wood, then used in
                                           custom-built detached houses sold by sumitomo forestry.

                                           sumitomo forestry and the oji paper group will jointly create a forestry operations area
 joint forestry operations area in ehime   centered on forests owned by oji paper group with neighboring privately held forests, creating
 prefecture                                the scale necessary for operating efficiencies, and building new logging roads through the
                                           mountains, thereby increasing the productivity and efficiency of operations such as thinning.




promotion of public-private sector forestry management
in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry, aiming to enable efficient forestry operations between the public and private sectors,
concluded an agreement for promotion of forestry management on public, private, and company-owned forests in kochi,
kumamoto, and wakayama prefectures. the initiative in kumamoto prefecture is the largest forest area ever covered by
such an agreement.

to achieve efficiencies in forest management, it is necessary to designate a forestry joint operations area encompassing
national forests, private and public forests, whose ownership structures are different, and then treat the combined
forests as if they were one, as well as build an efficient network of strip roads. through the conclusion of an agreement
for promotion of forestry management, it is now possible to efficiently build a network of strip roads, which has been
problematic up until now, and to create efficiencies in forestry operations, with the expectation of reduced costs.

going forward, the partners will jointly engage in thinning operations and sales of products made from the thinnings, and
aim for even more appropriate and efficient operations.




                                                                    145

  overview of agreement for promotion of forest management

                                                                                                                    company-owned forest
    area                                       signatories to the agreement
                                                                                                                       area (total area)

kochi          forestry agency, shikoku regional forest office, reihoku forest management department               225 ha
prefecture     sumitomo forestry co., ltd., niihama forestry office                                                （716 ha）

               forestry agency, kyushu regional forest office, kumamoto nambu forest management
               department
kumamoto       forestry and forest products research institute, forest and agricultural land maintenance           317 ha
prefecture     center, kumamoto water and forest resource office                                                   （3,935 ha）
               sumitomo forestry co., ltd., hyuga forestry office
               kyushu yokoi forestry co., ltd.

               forestry agency, kinki chugoku regional forest office, wakayama forest management
               department
wakayama       forestry and forest products research institute, forest and agricultural land maintenance           288 ha
prefecture     center, wakayama water and forest resource office                                                   （1,539 ha）
               sumitomo forestry co., ltd., ogawa forestry office
               miyama forest owner's cooperation



                       i want sumitomo forestry to maintain not just company-owned forests but also uncared for places in declining
                       forests. i hope to see operations that will renew as many declining forests as possible. (customer).



promoting the use of japanese timber
following world war ii, mountains throughout japan were planted with japanese cedar and cypress trees in an intense
reforestation effort. however, japanese timber became less competitive than imported timber due to deregulation
policies, making forest management an unprofitable business. as a result, the country's forest plantations were
practically abandoned and the forestry industry fell into decline.

sumitomo forestry believes that sound business practices are needed to drive japan's forestry industry so that timber
resources can continue being produced from the country's forests in the future. this means that greater use of japanese
timber will be a major challenge.

                            japanese timber has such high quality, i'd really like to see japan's forestry industry become vital again.
                            (student)
                            i want sumitomo forestry to work to revitalize japanese forestry, creating a mechanism to use more japanese
                            timber, not imported timber. (student)



using japanese timber in homes
sumitomo forestry embraces a policy of actively using japanese timber in its houses, and is promoting initiatives to
encourage the use of its super cypress laminated engineered wood for structural use, made from japanese cypress
(chamaecyparis obtusa), and its original load-bearing wall lattice panels, made from japanese cedar (cryptomeria
japonica) and japanese larch (larix leptolepis). in fiscal 2008, the company reached its target of using japanese timber
for 70% of the principal structural members for sumitomo ringyo no le (sumitomo forestry home) houses.

sumitomo forestry also builds houses that use japanese timber for 100% of principal structural members, limited to
certain product models and regions. the myforest-waraku miyabi home, launched in november 2006, uses japanese
timber for all principal structural members, including super cypress (100% japanese cypress laminated engineered
wood) for foundations and posts and larch for beams. the myforest-taiju home, launched in february 2008, uses
japanese timber for all principal structural members, with super cypress used for posts, foundations and sleepers, and
cypress used in original load-bearing lattice panels. sumitomo forestry also encourages the use of japanese cedar for
interior materials.

the company increased the percentage of japanese timber used for principal structural members in myforest-nostalgia,
a mainstay product in the two-by-four housing category. in two-by-four houses, the switch to japanese cypress
laminated engineered wood foundations and sleepers increased the ratio of domestic timber used in principal structural
members from 4% to 30%.

sumitomo forestry is also encouraging the use of regionally produced timber. in hokkaido, the company offers a 100%
“made in hokkaido” model that uses only locally grown japanese larch and sakhalin fir. in fiscal 2009, the company
built houses in nagano, ehime, nara, wakayama, yamaguchi, kochi, kumamoto, and oita using at least some locally
produced timber.

                                                                   146

the company will continue to promote these efforts to increase the use of domestic timber.

                              my family feels a great deal of pride in the house that sumitomo forestry built for us. (business partner)
                              sumitomo forestry does not exclusively use japanese timber, but also uses imported timber. i think the
                              company should set separate environmental initiatives for each type of timber. (business partner)



    providing environmentally friendly homes(p.34)




utilization of japanese timber and consideration for the environment
sumitomo forestry developed and started sales of the monbetsu no mori line of furniture that makes effective use of
thinnings of broadleaf trees harvested from company-owned forests primarily in monbetsu, hokkaido.
the company is actively involved in the use of domestic timber in the houses it builds, and has increased to 70% the
ratio of domestic timber used in principal structural members. in addition to structural members, aiming to proactively
use domestic timber in furniture, the company launched the monbetsu no mori project with 11 member companies, which
advances the development of furniture that leverages the best qualities of domestic timber and the best qualities of
wood.
thinnings, which are curved, and wood left over from logging are difficult to process into timber products and have
conventionally been used primarily as raw materials for pulp, or as fuel in the form of firewood—or disposed of unused.
the monbetsu no mori brand of interior furniture is the result of investigation into the effective use of thinnings from
broadleaf and other trees. the thinnings from broadleaf trees used as raw materials for the monbetsu no mori brand
come from sgec1-certified forests. going forward, the products will be marketed carrying the sgec label.
by promoting the supply of thinnings from broadleaf and other trees to companies that support and endorse these types
of projects, the company is encouraging the proactive use of domestic timber and supporting the revitalization of
domestic forests and protecting the environment, thus contributing to the achievement of the government's goal of
50% self-sufficiency in timber.

1 japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by third parties. certification is
 based on seven standards that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources.




                            furniture products made with thinnings of broadleaf trees from forests in monbetsu


sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. uses japanese cedar for its ayasugi line of interior materials such as entrance hall
storage areas, stairways and flooring. although japanese cedar is the most commonly planted tree in japan, after it is
cut into posts, some parts of the remaining wood are generally not used. however, sumitomo forestry crest was
particularly suited to apply its unique technologies to process these parts for its ayasugi line.
the company also manufactures a line of doors and flooring called totorop, which is made of japanese-grown sakhalin
fir. a cycle of logging and planting these trees, which are commonly grown on plantations in hokkaido, enables a balance
between timber supply and forest regeneration. totorop products effectively use the knotted parts of the timber, which
was previously unused, as laminated engineered wood without diminishing performance. moreover, when drying sakhalin
fir, dried scraps and offcuts are used in the drying equipment as biomass, a renewable energy.
through the extensive use of japanese cedar and sakhalin fir, the company is contributing to the preservation of national
lands, as well as to the prevention of global warming.

sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. began selling original deck hinoki brand of wooden decks that use thinnings
from japanese cypress in the floorboards. japanese cypress is a conifer that possesses beautiful grain and superior
durability, and, as such, has traditionally been used in shrines and altars. using the sumitomo forestry group's domestic
network to procure thinnings from japanese cypress, which has not been used very much until now, and the group's
proprietary technologies to effectively utilize it as a product, the company promotes the use of domestic timber, and
contributes to the healthy development of domestic forests.


                                                                     147

              original deck hinoki


development of efficient timber drying technology
cedar and cypress timber, which are often used to make posts, are sawed up and then dried. however, cracking tended
to occur in the wood-drying process, especially for cedar due to its high moisture content. therefore, resolving this
problem was essential to ensuring consistent quality.

sumitomo forestry responded by developing and promoting the mizdas® system, which is incorporated into timber
drying equipment to automatically control temperature and humidity via computer. sensors are attached to the section
of the timber to be dried to measure the moisture content and temperature of the wood inside the drying kiln. conditions
are adjusted accordingly to ensure appropriate temperature and humidity levels. this system reduces cracking,
distortion and other damage to the timber, making it possible to deliver the highly competitive and high-quality mizdas®
cedar posts and mizdas® cypress posts at low cost.




            cypress posts are dried in a kiln equipped with a                 shipment of cedar posts
                               mizdas® system




effective use of unused biomass resources
branches and twigs from thinning of forests, and offcuts such as wood left over from logging, left alone become a source
of greenhouse gas emissions and are related to forest deterioration, and thus their effective use is an important
challenge. in order to use wood left over from logging effectively as a source of unused biomass, sumitomo forestry
timberland management co., ltd. took a leading role in the model demonstration project for new business creation
using wood resources from fiscal 2008, and has researched the construction of a system to collect wood left over from
logging, and provide wood biomass fuel.

this effort has been evaluated and, in fiscal 2009, it was decided that all wood left over from logging would be provided
as biomass fuel to sumitomo joint electric power co., ltd., which will mix it with coal fuel to generate electricity in july
2010. by replacing a portion of the coal used to generate electric power with biomass chips, this initiative will cut co2
emissions by 6,900 tons annually and also contribute to preservation of local forests.

going forward, the company is aiming to further expand the business of supplying wood left over from logging across
the nation.




                                                                148

    preservation and sustainable use of overseas forest resources
group companies outside japan are increasing their use of plantation timber and promoting plantation forest operations
to ensure a stable supply of raw materials while still protecting the environment. in fiscal 2009, pt. kutai timber
indonesia (kti) planted 1,979 hectares, pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi) planted 1,007 hectares, nelson pine industries
ltd. in new zealand planted 167 hectares, and open bay timber ltd. in papua new guinea planted 1,160 hectares. kti,
which produces plywood and other timber products, is working toward its goal of using plantation timber for all of its raw
material in the near future.

  reforestation in indonesia




 contributions to local communities
in its plantation forest operation activities, sumitomo forestry cooperates with residents living in the vicinity of its
projects to ensure that they receive the economic benefits of plantation forest operations. in 2000, the company
launched “social forestry” in indonesia, a program for distributing seedlings to local residents free of charge. kti and
rpi then promise to buy the grown trees back in six to seven years, when the trees are ready for harvesting. residents
expect to benefit from this project, and supporting their independence and communicating with them builds strong
relationships. kti formed a reforestation cooperative in fiscal 2007, and acquired fsc fm certification in december
2008.

    expanding the handling of timber from certified forests(p.30)




 promoting the use of timber from sustainable forests
sumitomo forestry procures timber from forests all over the world and therefore has a major obligation to preserve the
world's forests. the timber & building materials division's forest products trading department and building materials
department have acquired forest stewardship council (fsc)1 and the programme for the endorsement of forest
certification (pefc)2 chain of custody (coc)3 certification to encourage the use of timber from sustainable forests. in
addition, sumitomo forestry has established a system to survey timber suppliers to ensure that it only handles legally
compliant timber. in june 2007, sumitomo forestry established the sumitomo forestry group timber procurement
philosophy and policy, and is currently implementing an action plan to promote the procurement of timber grown in
sustainable forests. in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry revised the action plans for fiscal 2010 and beyond, and will from
now advance its efforts based on the new action plans.

1 the fsc is a third-party organization that provides a global forestry certification system. its forest management (fm) certification
  authenticates forest management, while fsc coc certification of business organizations confirms that forest products from certified
  forests are appropriately separated and marked in the storage, processing and distribution processes.
2 the pefc is a forestry certification program that promotes sustainable forest management by offering certification from third parties
  independent of stakeholders.
3 a system for certifying appropriate separation and labeling by operators during storage, processing and distribution of timber from
  forests.




                                                                    149

expanding imports of plywood made from timber from certified forests and
plantations
in an effort to increase its usage of plywood made with timber from certified forests and plantation forests, which are
eco-friendly materials, in september 2008, sumitomo forestry decided to expand its imports of plywood made with
timber from certified forests. the company is aiming for about 50% of its imported plywood to be made with timber
from certified forests and plantation forests within three years, mainly by importing fsc-certified plywood manufactured
by the alas kusuma group in indonesia. in fiscal 2009, imported plywood made from certified and plantation timber was
approximately 120,000 m3, or roughly 28% of total handled volume.


launch of large-scale commercial forest plantation business
as forecasts for global timber consumption continue to rise, loss of forests and destruction of ecosystems are
accelerating at a dramatic pace due to forest fires, illegal logging, and slash-and-burn farming in southeast the asia and
other parts of the world. in this environment, sumitomo forestry jointly launched a large-scale commercial forest
plantation business in cooperation with alas kusuma group, a company involved in the forestry and plywood
manufacturing businesses in indonesia. this initiative not only contributes to the economic development of the local
community by providing employment for local residents in commercial forest plantation operations, but also to the
preservation of biodiversity and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.

this initiative classified indonesia's lowland forests and peat-swamp forests, which have been degraded by illegal logging
and slash-and-burn farming, into three areas: (1) forest preservation zones, (2) buffer zones, and (3) forestation zones.
by further classifying plantation areas by environmental factors such as soil composition and moisture content, the
initiative is able to optimize forestation operations to local environmental conditions. forestation program planning
utilizes leading-edge satellite information technology acquired through joint research with the japan aerospace
exploration agency (jaxa)'s space open lab system.

the aim is to enable sustainable commercial plantation forestry that contributes to the preservation of biodiversity
through appropriate designation of forest preservation zones, mosaic planting wherein forestation is undertaken only in
designated areas suited for that purpose, and the aggressive introduction of indigenous species. an experimental
plantation was launched in october 2009, and full plantation operations will begin in 2010. the plan calls for 40,000
hectares to start with, rising ultimately to 280,000 hectares.




           plantation tree seedlings


   plantation forest operation using satellite information(p.168)




                        i expect the company to both reduce co2 emissions and absorb co2 through its plantation forests. (student)




                                                                    150

biodiversity is an essential condition that forms the very foundation for supporting human life. currently, however,
biodiversity is being lost at a rapid pace around the world due to human activity. as a company with a deep relationship
with forests, sumitomo forestry focuses its resources on the preservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.

   initiatives to preserve biodiversity(p.59)




         policy on biodiversity preservation in company-owned forests in japan

   the company's policy on biodiversity preservation in company-owned forests in japan was established in
   september 2006.

    1. diversity of ecosystems
        we will properly manage strictly protected areas designated under the natural parks law and other
        legislation in a manner stipulated by the law. in other areas, we will ensure continuity of forests by limiting the
        area of forest harvested, particularly when clear-cutting is conducted.

    2. diversity of species
        we will work to prevent a decline in the number of species existing in natural forests by refraining from
        expansive planting projects and other extreme activities involving the replacement of species that would
        have a major impact on existing ecosystems. we will also give the utmost consideration to the protection of
        rare flora and fauna in all operations, making reference to the sumitomo forestry red data book.

    3. genetic diversity
        genetic variation and the maintenance of populations to support them will become issues in the future.
        however, analysis is complicated and therefore we will closely watch monitoring activities carried out by
        government and public institutions and their findings.




initiatives for biodiversity preservation in company-owned forests
the company also created the sumitomo forestry red data book to list
the rare flora and fauna that might exist in company-owned forests, and
provides training to those who work in these forests. as a result of this
training, consideration of biodiversity is enhanced: for example, when a
plant was confirmed as an endangered species in the forests of kyushu,
the plant was transplanted to neighboring forests with similar growth
environment and protected there. the company has been conducting
monitoring surveys to determine the inhabitation situation of mammalian
and avian species in company-owned forests since fiscal 2008. going
forward, the company plans to assess the long-term impact of logging
and plantation operations on mammalian and avian species by conducting
annual surveys of one of four regions: hokkaido, shikoku, kyushu, or                        sumitomo forestry red data book
wakayama, and then repeating the cycle so that each region is surveyed               (hyuga forestry office, miyazaki prefecture
every four years.                                                                                     edition)




                                                             151

      monitoring survey of mammalian and avian species in company-owned
      forests in kyushu

as part of a monitoring program for sgec forestry certification, sumitomo forestry conducted a monitoring
survey of company-owned forests in kyushu in june 2009. mammalian and avian species were surveyed and
photographed at fixed locations to obtain the basic information needed to preserve biodiversity in
company-owned forests and determine the impact of logging on the surrounding environment.

[survey results]
the survey confirmed the presence of a wide variety of mammalian and avian species.

  mammalian and avian species confirmed

               japanese mole (mogera wogura), japanese hare (lepus brachyurus), mouse family, raccoon dog (nyctereutes
               procyonoides), red fox (vulpes vulpes ), japanese marten (martes melampus ), weasel family, eurasian badger (meles
 mammalian
               meles), japanese wild boar (sus scrofa leucomystax), sika deer (cervus nippon), japanese serow (capricornis
               crispus or naemorhedus crispus).1 (5 species, 8 families, 11 orders)

               black kite ( milvus migrans), hodgson's hawk-eagle (nisaetus nipalensis, earlier treated under spizaetus),1 copper
               pheasant (syrmaticus soemmerringii ), oriental turtle-dove (streptopelia orientalis), white-bellied green pigeon
               (treron sieboldii), oriental cuckoo ( cuculus saturatus), 1 pacific swift (apus pacificus), japanese green woodpecker
               (picus awokera), white-backed woodpecker (dendrocopos leucotos ), 1 japanese pygmy woodpecker (dendrocopos
               kizuki ), ashy minivet (pericrocotus divaricatus)1, brown-eared bulbul ( hypsipetes amaurotis), winter wren
               (troglodytes troglodytes ), japanese thrush ( turdus cardis), asian stubtail (urosphena squameiceps), japanese
 avian         bush warbler ( cettia diphone), eastern crowned warbler ( phylloscopus coronatus), narcissus flycatcher (ficedula
               narcissina), blue-and-white flycatcher (cyanoptila cyanomelana),1 long-tailed tit (aegithalos caudatus), willow tit
               (parus montanus), coal tit (parus ater), varied tit (parus varius), great tit (parus major), eurasian nuthatch (sitta
               europaea), japanese white-eye (zosterops japonicus), meadow bunting (emberiza cioides), oriental greenfinch
               (carduelis sinica), japanese grosbeak (eophona personata), eurasian jay ( garrulus glandarius ), jungle crow (corvus
               macrorhynchos), chinese bamboo partridge ( bambusicola thoracica), red-billed leiothrix (leiothrix lutea)（7
               species, 20 families, 33 orders）

1 important species: species included in red data book by national or regional stipulation (designated as endangered species) under
 the act for protection of cultural properties, act for preservation of species, miyazaki prefectural ordinance, and other laws and
 ordinances.

regional environmental planning, inc., the company that conducted the survey, made the following observations
on the impact of clear-cutting upon mammalian and avian species.

1. mammalian species
     in the company-owned forests in kyushu, the presence of japanese serow, whose habitat is limited to the
     kyushu forests, was confirmed, as was the existence of deep mountain environments in the area. compared
     to regions where clear-cutting was conducted, the number of confirmed mammal species was high in the
     surrounding forests, and that difference was particularly evident among medium-sized mammals including
     hares, raccoon dogs, foxes, and martens. further, while mammal habitats and evidence of comings and
     goings were reduced, medium- and large-sized mammals are active across broad areas, and diversity is
     expected to advance as vegetation is regenerated and clear-cut areas are used as habitats.

2. avian species
     the impact of clear-cutting operations on bird life is significant, as shown by the number and types of
     species and territories. in clear-cut areas, however, even the meadow bunting, whose habitat is low in bushes
     or on the ground, and tree forest species1 such as the blue-and-white flycatcher, narcissus flycatcher, and
     eurasian jay were confirmed. that these species were confirmed is thought due to the clear-cut areas being
     surrounded by trees that protected the continuity of tree forests. further, the presence of tree forest
     species, such as the blue-and-white flycatcher in young forests was confirmed, and recovery of the number
     and types of species was observed. from these observations, it is thought that, going forward, habitat
     species will increase as plant life recovers, as will the diversity of constituent species.




                                                                 152

3. shared
     of the species confirmed, foxes and hodgson's hawk-eagle are umbrella species2, and it can be thought that
     habitats capable of supporting a diverse range of mammalian and avian species are preserved in
     company-owned forests. further, sumitomo forestry and regional environmental planning, inc. will both
     continue to observe and monitor the impact of operations upon the confirmed endangered species and do
     what is necessary to protect them.

1 species whose habitat is tree forests
2 species whose position is at the top of the food chain




                japanese serow confirmed by unmanned                                  copper pheasant
                             photography




                      i expect sumitomo forestry to preserve biodiversity through its forestry operations (expert）




                                                               153

sumitomo forestry endeavors to identify, appropriately manage, and reduce the amount of hazardous chemical
materials used and emitted in its business operations. in november 2008, the pollutant release and transfer register
(prtr) act was revised, including the target substances that must be identified by emitted or transported amount
beginning in fiscal 2010. the sumitomo forestry group strictly complies with the revised law and continues to properly
manage all hazardous materials.

management of chemical substances at research institute and plants
the sumitomo forestry tsukuba research institute and the plants belonging to sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. use
chemical substances in laboratory work and production. the tsukuba research institute prepared the chemical
substance management manual based on a pollution prevention agreement it entered into with the city of tsukuba. the
institute established an organizational structure for chemical substances management in accordance with the manual
and prescribed methods for receiving, storing, using, and disposing of chemical substances.

sumitomo forestry crest produces structural lining and interior materials for use in housing construction. the company's
seven plants take precautions to prevent chemical leaks and other environmental accidents. they have prepared
environment-related operations manuals that prescribe methods for waste disposal, water treatment, and the handling
of organic solvents, among other matters. the plants are also measuring concentrations of air and water pollutants and
organic solvents in exhaust gas.




                                                          154

 emi ssi ons and tr ansf er s of prtr substances 1(tsukuba resear ch i nsti tute and sumi tomo for estr y cr est)
 1 prtr substances: substances contr ol l ed under the pol l utant rel ease and tr ansf er regi ster act
                                                                                                                         uni t: kg (excl udi ng di oxi ns, w hi ch i s show n i n mg- teq)



 substance
                      chemi cal                                     emi ssi ons
 no. (prtr                             vol ume used                                                                                        tr ansf er s                   consumed*
                     substance                        emi ssi ons   to publ i c   emi ssi ons   on—si te         total       tr ansf er                     total
   law )                                                                                                                                       to
                                                        to ai r      sew age       to soi l     l andf i l l   emi ssi ons   as w aste                    tr ansf er s
                                                                                                                                            sew age
                                                                     system

           2    acr yl ami de                  0.15         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         0.15           0.00           0.15               0.00

           3    acr yl i c aci d           2,701.00         0.00          9.50          0.00          0.00           9.50         0.00           0.00           0.00         2,684.50

           12   acetoni tr i l e               0.93         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         0.93           0.00           0.93               0.00

                bi sphenol a type
           30                            28,600.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00      140.00            0.00        140.00         28,460.00
                epoxy r esi n

           43   ethyl ene gl ycol          1,152.00         0.00          6.50          0.00          7.00          13.50         5.00           0.00           5.00         1,133.50

           65   gl yoxal                   3,407.00         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         6.80           0.00           6.80         3,400.20

                chr omi um and
           68   chr omi um (ⅲ)               30.60         30.60          0.00          0.00          0.00          30.60         0.00           0.00           0.00               0.00
                compounds

           95   chl or of or m                 0.13         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         0.13           0.00           0.13               0.00

       102      vi nyl acetate         1,899,855.00    3,300.00           1.60          0.00          0.00      3,301.60          0.00           0.00           0.00     1,896,553.40

       145      di chl or omethane       62,883.94    60,574.11           0.00          0.00          0.00     60,574.11     2,309.83            0.00     2,309.83           2,402.16

       179      di oxi ns                    69.36         69.20          0.00          0.00          0.00          69.20         0.17           0.00           0.17               0.00

       227      tol uene                   5,000.00    5,000.00           0.00          0.00          0.00      5,000.00          0.00           0.00           0.00               0.00

       266      phenol                   21,960.00          0.00          0.40          0.00          0.00           0.40      610.00            0.00        610.00         21,349.60

                pol y(oxyethyl ene)
       307      al kyl ether (al kyl       1,283.00         0.00         13.00          0.00          0.00          13.00        14.00           0.00          14.00         1,256.00
                c=12- 15)

       310      for mal dehyde          155,474.00         50.00         11.00          0.00          0.00          61.00      350.00            0.00        350.00       155,413.00

       314      methacr yl i c aci d       1,392.00         0.00          1.00          0.00          0.00           1.00         0.00           0.00           0.00         1,391.00

                methyl
       320                                     2.84         2.84          0.00          0.00          0.00           2.84         0.00           0.00           0.00               0.00
                methacr yl ate

                ammoni um
       453      mol ybdate                     0.82         0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         0.82           0.00           0.82               0.00
                tetr ahydr ate



1 “consumed” is the amount of substances stipulated under the prtr law transformed through chemical reaction, included in or
 accompanying manufactured products, and transported off site.




                                                                                    155

  emissions of nox and sox (sumitomo forestry
  crest co., ltd.)

          substance            emissions (unit: kg)

 sulfur oxides (sox )                        4,549

 nitrogen oxides (nox )                     62,859

 soot and dust                              22,511


  effluent water quality survey results                       effluent water quality survey results
  sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. no.2 kyushu               tsukuba research institute
  plant
                                                                                                                       effluent
                                                                             item             unit    measured
 item1     unit   measured     effluent standards2                                                                    standards 3

 ph         ‐            6.9               5.0～9.0           ph                                ‐             7.8            5.8～8.6

 cod       mg/l         23.2                     40          bod4                             mg/l                8               160

 ss        mg/l           3                      50          ss                               mg/l               14               200

 t-n       mg/l         3.64                     60          total n-hexane extract
                                                             substances                       mg/l    less than 1                    5
 t-p       mg/l         0.02                      8
                                                             (total mineral oils)

                                                             total n-hexane extract
                                                             substances
                                                                                              mg/l    less than 1                   30
                                                             (total plant and animal
                                                             fats/oils)

                                                                                                        less than
                                                             total phenols                    mg/l                        0.5 or less
                                                                                                           0.025


1 ph = concentration of hydronium ions
 cod = chemical oxygen demand
 ss = suspended solids
 t-n = total nitrogen
 t-p = total phosphorous
2 effluent standards uses values stipulated by prefectural ordinance.
3 effluent standards uses values stipulated by the water pollution control act.
 total phenols uses standards required by the tsukuba city pollution prevention agreement.
4 bod = biological oxygen control




 proper treatment of building materials containing asbestos
revisions made to the waste management and public cleansing law in july 2006 required changes to the handling of
asbestos and how information is recorded in industrial waste management forms. sumitomo forestry has secured
appropriate disposal routes in order to comply with the revisions. countermeasures for prevention of asbestos being
released into the air during demolition work are detailed in the guide for appropriate measures during demolition work,
which sets forth policies for construction management. the company also discloses information about asbestos use and
countermeasures via its website.



 storage of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs)
sumitomo forestry properly manages polychlorinated biphenyl (pcb) waste and prevents leakage to the soil by keeping
it in sealed metal containers inside designated, locked steel warehouses marked for stored goods. each branch and
division has arranged to gradually dispose of stored pcbs based on proper disposal implementation plans.




                                                                    156

 measures against volatile organic compounds (vocs)
only “f           ”-rated building materials, furniture, lighting systems, and curtains—which have the lowest level of
formaldehyde emissions—are used in sumitomo forestry home houses in order to reduce emissions of volatile organic
compounds (vocs), which have been identified as a cause of “sick house” syndrome. cosmetic plasterboards that
absorb and break down formaldehyde are used inside closets. only tatami mats that do not contain foamed polystyrene
are used. efforts are also being made to reduce toluene and xylene.



 use of chromium-free materials
with the enforcement of europe's weee1 and rohs2 directives, companies are required to reduce the amount of harmful
substances such as hexavalent chromium, lead, and cadmium contained in their products. in fiscal 2009, sumitomo
forestry achieved the goal of“100% chromium-free”for all metals used. this is the result of efforts to shift to use of
only non-chromium surface-treated structural metals to reduce the use of hazardous materials.

1 waste electrical and electronic equipment
2 restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment




                                                                    157

the world's limited water resources make it essential that we use this water efficiently. sumitomo forestry is therefore
working to reduce its water use at its factories and offices.

efficient use of water resources at plants
of the sumitomo forestry group's 10 domestic manufacturing facilities, the no. 2 kyushu plant of sumitomo forestry
crest co., ltd. (former toyo plywood co., ltd. plant), which manufactures synthetic resin adhesives, etc., is a designated
facility under the stipulations of the water pollution control act. the other factories manufacture primarily processed
wood products such as plywood and housing interior materials and thus do not use large amounts of water. nonetheless,
efforts to use water as efficiently as possible are being made at all sumitomo forestry manufacturing facilities.

the no. 2 kyushu plant of sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. uses industrial water primarily to cool manufacturing
equipment and to dilute plant effluents. in order to reduce the amount of water used, the following initiatives were
continued to fiscal 2009.

 1. wastewater was reduced by redesigning production plans to match the actual production sequence in order to
    decrease the number of times equipment is washed.
 2. wastewater was reduced by re-circulating some of the water used to wash equipment and was re-used as a raw
    material.
 3. a storage pool for effluent and raw water was covered with a roof to prevent rainwater from increasing wastewater
    volume.

strengthening the efforts for items 1 and 2 above resulted in a reduction in the volume of wastewater generated by the
manufacturing division. the installation and maintenance of the roof covering the storage pool in item 3 above resulted in
an approximately 10% decrease compared to fiscal 2008 in water sent to wastewater treatment facilities. strict
management of the effluent standard (cod) and control of the discharged amount of treated wastewater resulted in a
reduction of the industrial water used. as a result of these efforts, a 12% reduction in industrial water used per base unit
of production was achieved in fiscal 2009, greatly exceeding the target of a 6% reduction compared to fiscal 2008.

to effectively use precious water resources, sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. is promoting the use of recycled water
resources at its no. 2 kyushu plant, niihama plant, and komatsushima plant. in fiscal 2009, approximately 851,000 m3
of recycled and re-used water was utilized through such efforts as recycling the water used in water curtain spray booth
and re-using treated wastewater to wash filters of dehydrating machines used at wastewater treatment facilities.




roof covering treated water storage pool      roof installation at no. 2 plant pit       roof installation at no. 1 plant




                                                              158

sumitomo forestry was among the first in the housing industry to obtain iso 14001 certification for its environmental
management system, and is pushing forward to reduce its environmental impact with a group-wide integrated system.

    promoting environmental management

environmental management system
 environmental management structure




                                                         159

in fiscal 1995, sumitomo forestry adopted an environmental management system (ems), and in fiscal 1997, its housing
division was the first organization in japan's housing industry to acquire iso 14001 certification. in fiscal 2002, the
certification was upgraded to encompass the entire company. efforts were taken to extend this certification to group
companies, and by the end of fiscal 2009, three companies were included in the integrated iso 14001 certification:
sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd.; sumitomo forestry home service co., ltd.; and sumitomo forestry crest co.,
ltd.1

companies that have obtained iso 14001 certification independent of the group-wide integrated iso 14001
certification are: alpine mdf industries pty ltd. (alpine mdf); nelson pine industries ltd. (npil); pt. kutai timber
indonesia (kti); pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi); and pt. ast indonesia (asti).

1 each plant of the former toyo plywood co., ltd. (nagoya plant, kyushu plant, no. 2 kyushu plant) had obtained iso certification
 independently. due the merger with sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. and following an inspection in july 2010, all of the systems of the
 former toyo plywood co., ltd. have been integrated into the certification held by sumitomo forestry.




 internal environmental audits
different departments of group companies conduct audits of each other to reliably and efficiently progress with
environmental conservation efforts. in fiscal 2009, the number of departments conducting mutual audits increased to
85. internal environmental auditors evaluate initiatives, propose improvements, and check compliance frameworks. the
results of internal audits are reported to management, which prescribes improvements as needed. employees are
qualified as internal environmental auditors by passing an examination upon completion of a training course held twice a
year. as of the end of fiscal 2009, a total of 1,051 employees including 370 from group companies have qualified as
such auditors.



 audits by external certification bodies
iso 14001 certification reviews are conducted annually and renewal examinations are held every three years by external
certification bodies. the fiscal 2009 renewal examination recommended nine proposals for improvement. these
proposals were studied by relevant departments, which decided on appropriate actions to take, and internal
environmental audits were conducted to determine the effectiveness of initiatives.



    promoting environmental education and training
the company conducts environmental education programs to foster
awareness of environmental issues among employees and to encourage
them to take action of their own accord.

examples of these activities include distribution of a monthly email
newsletter on environmental topics sent to all employees, as well as the
intranet portal for environmental understanding, which provides greater
depth than the email newsletter, including q&as on industrial waste and
other topics. the portal encourages employees to educate themselves
about the environment through a wide array of information, ranging from
familiar environmental topics to specialized knowledge.

during training for new employees on entry to the company, employees
are given a lecture on the group's environmental initiatives. in addition to this, they are taken on a training trip to the
besshiyama company-owned forest—the company's birthplace—in the city of niihama, ehime prefecture, to provide the
opportunity to consider the environment while experiencing a regenerated forest firsthand.
the company also gives lectures on proper treatment and recycling to employees in charge of industrial waste, and
regularly provides technical environmental education, including courses to train internal iso 14001 environmental
auditors. in fiscal 2009, the company continued the introductory course on environmental management for new
environmental representatives, a program started in fiscal 2008.




                                                                   160

    environmental risk management

 efforts to reduce environmental risks
sumitomo forestry identifies important risks relating to its business activities, such as risks associated with industrial
waste, soil contamination, and illegal logging, etc., and develops appropriate countermeasures. in particular, the
sumitomo forestry group regards industrial waste from its various business activities as its most serious environmental
risk, and accordingly continues to ensure proper disposal. the group also recognizes illegal logging as a major risk, and is
working to prevent the handling of illegally logged timber by any group company.

in fiscal 2009, there were no significant violations of any environment-related laws or ordinances.


 proper treatment of industrial waste
approximately 70% of illegally dumped industrial waste in japan is construction waste. it is essential, therefore, that
sumitomo forestry proceed with appropriate waste treatment as a responsible company.

in fiscal 2008, the company reviewed its management systems with the aim to further improve the appropriate
treatment of industrial waste. as a result, it appointed personnel in charge of industrial waste treatment to all group
companies, and decided to carry out voluntary compliance audits concerning industrial waste at each company as well as
comprehensive site inspections of intermediate treatment plants.

starting in fiscal 2006, sumitomo forestry made a group-wide switch to an electronic manifest system in order to
improve compliance in waste management. this system has helped the group outsource waste treatment to only the
best contractors. all intermediate treatment contractors working with the housing division's branches and new housing
construction sites have adopted electronic manifest systems. during fiscal 2009, 97% of all manifests, including those
for housing demolition waste, were electronic and the group is aiming for 100% in fiscal 2010.

sumitomo forestry will continue to ensure proper disposal of industrial waste by carrying out internal audits of industrial
waste management at the division and company levels, and by inspecting disposal sites.


 countermeasures against soil contamination
in september 2005, the company issued the guidebook on soil contamination countermeasures for the purpose of
averting soil contamination risk when purchasing land or selling housing lots on behalf of others. land purchases are
made only after confirming that the land is safe following a land history survey. the property development business
division, which operates a subdivision business, conducts soil contamination inspections prior to the purchase of new
land as a standard procedure, and has put in place a system that prohibits the use of contaminated land.

in may 2006, the company drew up the guidelines on soil contamination countermeasures for land owned or
administered by the sumitomo forestry group, for employment in group-wide efforts to determine the presence of soil
contamination.

in fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry crest's kashima plant conducted a soil contamination survey on its grounds as a
voluntary initiative to address environmental risk. as a result, the groundwater was found to slightly exceed the
standards set for voc (volatile organic compound) contamination.

the soil contamination countermeasures act mandates purification only when the land is to be sold or returned to the
owner. in order to reduce risk, soil purification using bioremediation1 was carried out in fiscal 2009. subsequently, no
values exceeding the relevant standards have been detected at observation wells established as part of a continuing
monitoring program.

1 a method for purifying soil contaminated with vocs by activating microorganisms native to the soil.

                         i would like sumitomo forestry to address soil contamination issues in parallel with plantation forests. (student)



 countermeasures against water pollution
at facilities designated under the stipulations of the water pollution control law, the company conducts regular water
quality surveys of discharged water, and strictly manages to target standards.

    effluent water quality survey results(p.156)




                                                                   161

preventing the use of illegally logged timber
since illegal logging leads to deforestation, it has become a major issue of public concern. sumitomo forestry performs
checks of all overseas suppliers of raw timber, lumber, and wood products to confirm legal compliance and to ensure
that the group does not handle any illegally logged timber. to improve reliability, the group sends local sumitomo
forestry representatives and inspectors to visit logging sites and confirm compliance when necessary. in fiscal 2009, the
group continued to confirm the legal compliance of suppliers outside japan, and completed checking of 163 companies.
surveys conducted over the three years since fiscal 2006 show the company achieved 100% compliance for all timber
directly imported from overseas suppliers.

   procuring sustainable raw materials(p.87)




proper management and reduction of hazardous materials
sumitomo forestry endeavors to identify, appropriately manage, and reduce the amount of hazardous chemical
materials used and emitted in its business operations. in november 2008, the pollutant release and transfer register
(prtr) act was revised, including the target substances that must be identified by emitted or transported amount
beginning in fiscal 2010. the sumitomo forestry group strictly complies with the revised law and continues to properly
manage all hazardous materials.

   management of hazardous materials(p.154)




preventing air pollution
at facilities equipped with boilers, which are compliant with the air pollution control act, emissions and concentrations of
nox , sox , and soot and dust are regularly measured to ensure that strict compliance with concentration standards is
maintained.

   emissions of nox and sox(p.156)




reducing inconvenience to local residents
the company makes efforts to prevent noise and vibrations during construction of houses to reduce inconvenience to
nearby residents.




                                                           162

sumitomo forestry strives to create a sustainable society through enterprising r&d that capitalizes on its cutting-edge
scientific expertise and broad range of knowledge on trees and wood.

    r&d policy
in accordance with its long-term management strategy, the following research groups at the tsukuba research institute
work together on research and technology development to create future value, leveraging sumitomo forestry's
strengths in a variety of areas from forestry to finished products, encompassing trees, wood and housing.

   the biological resources group develops breeding and cultivation technologies as well as propagation technologies
   involving treasured and precious trees for reforestation projects in and outside japan.
   to expand the use of plantation timber in and outside japan, the building materials group develops technologies for
   wood drying, new wood-based panels, and other applications. the group also develops technologies to strengthen the
   durability of housing materials.
   the housing group develops construction methods with excellent cost performance, and technologies that enhance
   living environments, enable more efficient use of resources for environmental symbiosis and energy conservation,
   effectively use trees and natural elements, incorporate universal design principles, improve durability of excellent
   long-term houses, and provide techniques for renovations.



    r&d for sustainable forest management

developing technology to propagate treasured and precious trees
in every region of japan, there are trees that have been treasured from long ago, and some are centuries old. to ensure
these precious trees are passed down to subsequent generations, sumitomo forestry is working to develop propagation
technology to reproduce the properties of the original trees, leveraging the group's accumulated expertise in
propagation through cutting, grafting, and biotechnology.

in 2009, cutting technology was successful in propagating the famous japanese camellia tree at reigan-ji temple in
kyoto, as well as the sasanqua tree at ankokuron-ji temple in kamakura. the sasanqua tree at ankokuron-ji temple is
thought to be more than 350 years old, and previous efforts to use cutting technology failed to root. the application of
a natural plant fatty acid called “koda”1 showed a remarkable effect on promotion of root growth, enabling the
propagation of the tree.

in february 2010, tissue cultures, one type of biotechnology, were used to successfully propagate the famous
omurozakura cherry trees of the ninna-ji temple in kyoto. this is the first time that omurozakura trees have been
propagated to the seedling stage, passing on the cherished double blossoms characteristic of this species for future
generations to enjoy.

1 koda（α-ketol-octadecadienoic acid): natural plant fatty acid
 shiseido first identified this natural plant fatty acid as an agent promoting bud formation of flowers and which is currently the subject of
 joint research with sumitomo forestry. koda has been shown to have effects on rooting, flower bud formation, control of dormancy, and
 plant growth.




                                                                     163

                                           flowers of the 350-year-old sasanqua tree



   promoting environment-related businesses(p.166)




development of technology to use plantation timber
sumitomo forestry is developing technologies to use trees that have not been used previously, as well as fast-growing
trees, to promote the growth of its overseas wooden panel business.

kutai timber indonesia (kti), a group company, started plantation forestry of balsa trees in 2000, and has been
developing technology to use the balsa, which is now nearing the harvesting stage, in its plywood and blockboard
products. conventional thinking held balsa to be difficult to use in board products but repeated r&d cycle resulted in
two ways to do so. first, the tsukuba research institute and kti developed a blockboard plywood using bamboo as a
surface veneer. when used as flooring, the high insulative properties of balsa are expected to lessen the coldness of
floors in winter. the other use combines balsa with kamerere wood grown on plantations operated by open bay timber
ltd., a group company, as raw materials for structural plywood. despite being broadleaf plywood, it can be
manufactured at the same weights as the mainstream conifer plywood made from larch wood and japanese cedar
(cryptomeria japonica), and contributes to improved workability.
patents are pending on these technologies at the current time.

in preparation for the start of particleboard (pb) manufacturing in vietnam in 2012, the tsukuba research institute has
been investigating raw materials that can be sourced reliably in vietnam and used to produce high-quality pb.
researchers examined the material characteristics of previously unused tree species, including plantation trees that can
be sourced from neighboring regions and fruit trees, experimentally fabricated pb in laboratory settings, and
test-fabricated full-size pb in cooperation with a group company then conducting processing experiments. the year-long
effort made possible the manufacture of high-quality pb using sustainable plantation timber and led to the decision to
start operations.



    r&d for popularization of environmentally friendly housing

development of energy-saving renovation techniques
energy-saving technologies for structures, centered on improvement of insulation and airtightness, not only make the
living environment more comfortable, but also have the effect of reducing lighting and heating costs, and controlling co2
emissions. sumitomo forestry is developing a variety of renovation techniques that save energy in existing structures,
meeting the demands of society and our customers for saving energy in the home.

in fiscal 2009, the company developed a method for easily assessing the insulation of structures on site using a compact
thermal camera. the company also developed insulation panels that do not require demolition of the structure—the
panels are easily installed over the existing walls. the company will continue to promote energy-saving technologies and
methods for existing structures.




                                                             164

              small gaps that allow outside air in cannot be         thermographs taken with a compact thermal
                        seen with the naked eye                          camera reveal outside air flowing in



development of radiant cooling and heating system
the cooling and heating system—air conditioning—most commonly used today uses convection to control interior air
temperatures. air conditioning using convection is extremely energy-efficient but may have negative health effects such
as discomfort from cold/hot air blowing directly on the body, the excess dryness of the air, or even causing what's
commonly known as an “air conditioning cold”.

sumitomo forestry is developing radiant cooling and heating systems, specifically designed for nursing homes for senior
citizens. radiant cooling and heating systems control the surface temperature of the ceiling, have the same energy
efficiencies as convection air conditioners, and aim to provide a comfortable and healthy indoor environment. radiant
cooling and heating systems are characterized as “the cool comfortable feeling you get inside a tunnel during the
summer and the warmth you feel when sitting in a sunny spot during the winter”. radiant systems do not generate
uncomfortable air currents like air conditioners and place a small load on the body. in the past, however, radiant systems
did not sufficiently dehumidify the air, resulting in problems with condensation. by using a system with a dehumidification
system, this problem is solved.

the company continues to research, develop, and test radiant cooling and heating systems, aiming for
commercialization of the resulting products.




                                                               165

sumitomo forestry is capitalizing on its technology and experience in forests and trees built up over the years to expand
its environment-related businesses. this reflects the company's belief in the importance of using its resources for the
larger public good.

ecosystem network fast diagnostic service for corporate land begins
in 2010, the tenth meeting of the conference of the parties (cop 10) convention on biological diversity will be convened
in nagoya, aichi prefecture. in anticipation, activities related to business and biodiversity are becoming very active,
including the publication in march 2009 of the declaration of biodiversity by nippon keidanren and the ministry of the
environment's guidelines for private sector engagement in biodiversity. as corporations are increasingly eager to start
concrete initiatives, the eco-asset consulting service helps companies utilize corporate green spaces for socially
responsible activity.

sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd., in cooperation with interrisk research institute & consulting and regional
environmental planning developed “ecosystem network fast diagnostic service” — the first service in japan to offer
corporations a fast way to assess the potential for their offices and other land holdings to preserve biodiversity. the
service launched in march 2010.

the service was developed to meet the rising needs of corporations wishing to re-assess their company-owned land from
the perspective of biodiversity. how can the land be used so as to contribute to preservation of local ecosystems? the
service provides a fast assessment of the potential and possibilities. how does the current land utilization of plants,
offices, and other places of work impact the local ecosystem? what conservation activities will contribute most to
preservation of biodiversity? the service uses gis (geographical information systems) to analyze land utilization, on-site
surveys, and review of the academic body of knowledge to provide a fast diagnosis.

the service is expected to drive new environmental businesses by focusing on green spaces.

                       i would like to see sumitomo forestry play an active role in environmental planning for the entire region. (expert)




ninna-ji temple omurozakura research project
in april 2007, a joint research project to ascertain the ecological history of the omurozakura cherry blossoms was
launched by the ninna-ji temple, chiba university, and sumitomo forestry group companies sumitomo forestry,
sumitomo forestry landscaping and the former sumirin base techno co., ltd. the omurozakura are a cluster of
satozakura cherry trees measuring only two to three meters tall that grow inside the ninna-ji temple compound (the
former omuro imperial palace) in kyoto's ukyo ward.

the trees had been weakening in recent years, indicated by prominent dead branches and late blossoming. this
prompted a three-to-five-year study to survey and analyze soil and root conditions and devise recovery methods.
studies from 2007 had already determined that the clay-rich soil did not have enough carbon and nitrogen to nurture
trees, making it difficult to retain moisture. in 2009, the study confirmed that the roots of the trees were only about one
meter long, less than half the normal length, attributable to the difficulty in growing below this hard layer of earth.
following on these surveys, biotechnology, in the form of tissue culturing, was used successfully for the first time to
propagate seedlings in february 2010, which will pass on to future generations the double-blossom characteristic for
which the trees are renowned.

to enable the passing on of this precious variety, sumitomo forestry will conduct further research and investigation,
aiming to explain the growing conditions for seedlings propagated through tissue culturing, establish dna analysis
technology for matching the strain, and explore the use of cultivated seedlings at nurseries to supplant stumps of trees
that have withered and died.

   developing technology to propagate treasured and precious trees(p.163)




                                                                  166

overseas reforestation consultancy
sumitomo forestry provided consulting services to roland corporation regarding a reforestation project. roland has
been importing wood from indonesia for the cabinets of its electric pianos, and in fiscal 2007, it commissioned
indonesia's state-owned forest enterprise, perum perhutani, to carry out reforestation to produce the raw materials for
the cabinets, as well as environmental reforestation, which is a type of reforestation that does not harvest trees, to
contribute to the environment and the local community.

the industrial reforestation project began in january 2008 with the planting of trees across a total of 72.4 hectares. the
planted trees are growing well and are on track to be harvested beginning in january 2012. the project timeframe is
eight years, until march 2015.

environmental reforestation accelerates the cultivation of water resources, contributes to local economies through the
cultivation of fruit trees and medicinal plants, and contributes to the prevention of global warming through the
absorption of co2 as the trees grow. with these objectives in mind, a total of 30.6 hectares were planted. in january
2009, supplemental planting was conducted for plantation trees that had dried out. the project timeframe is planned for
five years.

                       i want sumitomo forestry to develop methods for using resources in a sustainable manner and show them to the
                       world. (expert)




               there are fruit trees at the environmental                 at the industrial plantation, the trees have
               plantation that can be harvested by local                   grown to more than 10 meters in height.
                                residents.




                                                               167

plantation forest operation using satellite information
plantation forest operations in developing countries require information about the natural environment, such as the
geography, vegetation, soil and climate, but in many cases this kind of environmental data and even accurate maps are
often unavailable in developing economies. without such data, however, it is impossible to develop plantations that are
optimally suited to the location. inevitably, in the absence of such data, the plantation will fail, potentially causing severe
damage to the environment. thus, it is necessary to devote much time and effort to the collection of basic data.

accordingly, sumitomo forestry is developing a plantation forest operation model using information from land-observing
satellites. by using satellite information, environmental data of the planned site stretching across a broad area can be
obtained or estimated with a high degree of accuracy, which is extremely valuable for conducting reforestation projects
in developing countries.

in cooperation with the hiroshima institute of technology and kyoto university, sumitomo forestry proposed this
plantation forest operation model to the fiscal 2008 space open lab, and it was selected as an afforestation business
model for developing nations using satellite data. the industrial collaboration department1 of the japan aerospace
exploration agency (jaxa), an independent administrative organization, administers the space open lab project. the
project is being conducted jointly with jaxa through the current fiscal year.

large-scale industrial plantations established in degraded forests in tropical zones would help control global warming and
contribute to local economies through the creation of new jobs. further, the establishment of a stable supply of timber
resources from plantation forests is expected to reduce dependence on timber resources from natural forests, thus
contributing to the preservation of natural forests. the clean development mechanism (cdm)2 reforestation project,
which is currently garnering significant attention, and redd monitoring3 will also play major roles.

in order to establish this plantation business model, the company has begun to develop and test a plantation
development support tool using satellite information in the company's large-scale industrial plantation operation in
plantation forest areas of west kalimantan in indonesia. technological development will be completed by fiscal 2010
with full operations expected from 2011.

1 the department has been renamed the industrial collaboration and coordination center.
2 cdm is a system overseen by the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), in which developed countries
 contribute money and technology to projects in developing countries aimed at reducing emissions, and in turn, the developed countries
 receive certified emission reduction credits for any reductions.
3 redd is a program overseen by the unfccc designed to reduce emissions resulting from forest depletion and degradation in developing
 countries.


   preservation and sustainable use of overseas forest resources(p.149)




cdm business using wood biomass for power generation
at pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi), a four-megawatt wood biomass power
generation facility that primarily burns lumber mill-ends and sawdust was
approved as a cdm project by the united nation's cdm executive board and
registered as such on may 23, 2008. this was the first wood biomass power
station in indonesia to be registered as a cdm business. by replacing its existing
diesel generators with wood biomass generators, rpi expects to reduce its co2
emissions by about 15,000 tons a year.

from january 7, 2009, the system for counting co2 emission reduction
volumes as carbon credits was established, and the company reported its
count start dates to the united nations. the company will report on its co2
emission reduction activities for the year 2009, which will be audited by the
                                                                                                          wood biomass boiler
united nations. the u.n. is scheduled to confirm the amount of co2 emissions
reduced and issue a carbon credit during fiscal 2010.




                                                                    168

establishment of biomass power generation company and wood fuel chip supply
company
sumitomo joint electric power co., ltd., fuluhashi epo corporation, and sumitomo forestry jointly established kawasaki
biomass power co., ltd. in april 2008 to operate a biomass electrical power generation facility using wooden chips as
fuel. a woodchip supply company was also established in a nearby location to provide chips made mainly from timber
generated through construction. the woodchip supply company is jointly owned by fuluhashi epo corporation and
sumitomo forestry.

by operating a biomass power generation facility that uses wooden industrial wastes generated by thinning forests or
demolition of buildings, the company promotes recycling of timber, efficient use of forest resources, and contributes to
stopping global warming by reducing co2 emissions.

construction of the power generation facility began in september 2009, and construction of the woodchip supply facility
began in march 2010. test operations will begin in autumn 2010, with full operation of the facilities slated to start in
fiscal 2010.



research on germination of yoshino cherry trees using koda
in february 2009, shiseido co., ltd. and sumitomo forestry's joint research led to the discovery that ketol-
octadecadienoic acid (koda), a natural plant fatty acid, promotes rooting of the yoshino cherry tree when propagating
the tree from cuttings.

observations of growth after stem cuttings of the yoshino cherry tree were sprayed with koda revealed that the
development rate was two to three times higher than normal.
when koda was used with cutting technology on the japanese camellia tree at reigan-ji temple in kyoto, as well as the
sasanqua tree at ankokuron-ji temple in kamakura, remarkable root development and enhanced growth were observed
and the cultivation was a success. going forward, the company will aim for commercialization of koda while validating
its effects on endangered plants.

koda itself does not induce rooting, but rather interrupts dormancy after buds and seeds are complete, and stimulates
the cells' original functions. the company will conduct further research to fully explain this process.

   developing technology to propagate treasured and precious trees(p.163)




first private-sector forest absorption-type offset credit sale
the j-ver system, promoted by the ministry of the environment as a measure to combat global warming, authorizes
carbon offset credits to domestic projects that reduce emissions of or absorb greenhouse gases, in an amount
equivalent to the amount of emissions reduced or gases absorbed.

in july 2009, a company-owned forest was registered under the j-ver system as the first sustainable forestry
management promotion-type project. following validation, an offset credit of 2,083 t-co2 was issued, equivalent to the
amount of co2 absorbed by the forest annually.
the group's carbon offset initiatives also included the first private-sector sale of an issued offset credit in october of the
same year.

registration in the j-ver system, which underscores sumitomo forestry's reputation for sustainable forestry
management, and the business model of utilizing offset credits to improve profitability of forestry, both contribute to
the revitalization of japan's forests.




                                                               169

sumitomo forestry is focusing on green purchasing and efforts to reduce paper, electricity, and gasoline consumption in
order to reduce the environmental impact from office work.

promoting green purchasing
sumitomo forestry has been encouraging its offices to conduct green purchasing—the priority purchasing of products
that have a low environmental impact. office product and company vehicle purchasing guidelines were established in
2006, laying down a clear set of standards for progressing with green purchasing.

leased vehicles operated by group companies are being replaced with select high-fuel-efficiency vehicles based on group
standards. in july 2009, the re-evaluation of the high-fuel-efficiency vehicles was set forth in the guidelines. the
re-evaluation of the high-fuel-efficiency vehicles will be conducted at least once a year from the perspective of both cost
and environmental considerations

to increase the share of high-fuel-efficiency vehicles across the sumitomo forestry group, in fiscal 2009, the group
publicized the guidelines comprehensively and communicated with business units whose vehicle leases were due to
expire. as a result of these efforts, the share of fuel-efficient standard models among new vehicles leased was 79.7%,
an improvement from 63.6% the previous fiscal year. the share of high-fuel-efficiency vehicles among the group's total
vehicles, including existing vehicles, was 45.2% as of march 2010. from october 2009, the group began switching to
high-fuel-efficiency tires whenever leased vehicles undergo scheduled maintenance.

the group unified its procurement of office supplies, enabling accurate calculation of the group's green purchasing ratio.
the group's green purchasing ratio in fiscal 2009 was 67.6%. each department of each group company will continue
efforts to increase green purchasing in the future.



energy conservation in offices
in fiscal 2009, the company set a target of a year-on-year 10% reduction
in the amount of electricity and gasoline used to further advance energy
conservation efforts in offices.

surveys of energy conservation were conducted at each office of the
sumitomo forestry group and focus areas were prioritized. energy
conservation meetings were held at certain locations within the group
focusing on further intensification of energy conservation activities.
measures to reduce consumption of electricity included “visualization”
of room temperatures—in order to allow setting of temperatures at
optimal levels—through the distribution of “thermometer posters,” as
well as setting computer monitors to automatically shut off when the
                                                                                   poster with thermometer attached
computer is not in use. to reduce gasoline consumption, the group
encouraged employees to attend seminars and hands-on workshops
sponsored by the japan automobile federation (jaf) to provide instruction in environmentally sound driving.




                                                           170

      location          kendal, central java, indonesia

      number of         501 (as of december 31, 2009)
      employees

      business          manufacture and sale of particleboard




     comment from president kawanami

rpi has planted 5.8 million trees across approximately 3,000 hectares as of
january 2010. the majority of the plantation forests will provide raw
materials for our businesses and the remainder will be environmental
plantation forests that will never be harvested. we've distributed seedlings
free of charge as part of our csr activities, but the scale of this
reforestation is unprecedented. this is a fitting way to commemorate the
20th anniversary of our founding and we believe it will be linked with
enhancement of corporate environmental value.




     comment from director djunarko

rpi's plantation forests are based on a system whereby seedlings are
distributed to the community free of charge and then five years later we
buy back the plantation trees they've grown at market prices. this
provides our business with raw materials but also creates employment
opportunities. the implementation of this environmental plantation forestry
system in the gobon area also helps local residents, who previously cut
down trees secretly to burn as fuel, to appreciate the environment.

we will continue to strive to be a company that contributes to the local
community.




                  171

    rpi to commemorate 20 th anniversary with 100-hectare environmental
    forestry plantation
rpi will establish environmental plantation forests on approximately 100
hectares of land, as part of the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of
its founding.

the joint project with perhutani, the national forestry public corporation,
will take place on devastated land in central java's gobon district.
previously a teak plantation, the land became arid after years of local
residents illegally cutting down trees and exposure of the soil to salt air,
with the result that no plants could grow.



                                                                                       gobon, site of the planned plantation

                                      the trees to be planted are of the nyamplung (calophyllum inophyllum) species.
                                      nyamplung is an ideal tree for establishing water resources in an area that is
                                      suffering from severe water shortages. further, the oil extracted from the seeds can
                                      potentially be used for bio-energy. local residents will sell the seeds from trees
                                      planted and cultivated by rpi to perhutani, providing the basis for development of
                                      the local economy.

                                      contributing to the community is integral to rpi's action plan, and we will continue to
                                      engage in activities that contribute to the local community.




nyamplung trees (plantation forest)




                                                             172

      location          semarang, central java, indonesia

      number of         949 (as of december 31, 2009)
      employees

      business          started out as a manufacturer of audio speaker
                        cabinets using particleboard produced by nearby rimba
                        partikel indonesia (rpi), a sumitomo forestry group
                        company. currently, asti's primary businesses are oem
                        production of electronic musical instruments (drums
                        and pianos) and home interior materials.




     comments from president kawazoe

it's been two years since i was appointed president in april 2008. during
that time, our top priority has remained unchanged: “safety first” -
because thinking about the happiness of our employees is truly local csr.
since our last report, we've expanded and enhanced the education and
training menu, supported sports activities, and implemented many
initiatives. the pursuit of safety and happiness for our employees, however,
is unending. the company and our employees are united as one in striving
every day to make things better, to become the kind of company we aspire
to be.




     comments from employees

employee education
the safety and environment department was established in october 2008
with the objective of contributing to the improvement of safety in the
workplace and the preservation and enhancement of the environment
through our business activities. employee education and training is focused
on safety and health in the workplace, fire-fighting training including use of
fire hoses, knowledge of cutting machines necessary for our operations
(used correctly, there is no danger), and motorbike safety (safe driving
techniques and traffic laws). through these activities, we are contributing
to increased awareness of safety for employees, and building a safety-
centric culture across the company.




                  173

                                         sports activities
                                         soccer is by far the most popular sport in indonesia because many people
                                         can have fun with just one ball. futsal is also popular because it requires
                                         less space to play than soccer and if you have 10 people, you can start a
                                         game. every friday after work is done, teams comprised of people from
                                         different departments gather to play futsal and refresh their spirits and
                                         recharge their stamina after a long week of work. and it's a great
                                         opportunity to meet people and make friends from other departments that
                                         you don't normally have contact with in the course of daily business. going
                                         forward, we hope to increase cooperative and friendly relationships by
                                         arranging futsal matches with our neighbors, suppliers, and other japanese
                                         companies.




    employee education and training
we are focused on safety education and training in order to not cause accidents and not allow accidents to happen. in
the manufacturing workplace, we provide training in the safe use of cutting machines, which are essential tools. since so
many of our employees commute by motorbike, we offer safe driving education. we also conduct fire drills regularly
including the use of fire hoses.




                                                     fire hose training




                                             safe driving for motorbikes seminar




                                                            174

    employee welfare
as part of our employee welfare activities, we provide support to sports
activities. soccer is very popular in indonesia, so we support weekly futsal
matches on fridays after work by renting a futsal field located close by.
volleyball is another popular sport and we provide a volleyball court on the
factory grounds, with activities beginning in may.

looking ahead, we will continually improve and enhance our employee
welfare activities, including hosting a festival to commemorate the
founding of the company and a scholarship fund for children of employees.



                                                                               members of the futsal team




                                                           175

      g3
                                                description                                                       location
disclosure

1. strategy and analysis

                                                                                                   our top commitment(p.6)
             statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., ceo,
                                                                                                   overview of sumitomo forestry business
1.1          chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the
                                                                                                   units and messages from directors in
             organization and its strategy.
                                                                                                   charge(p.9)

                                                                                                   overview of sumitomo forestry business
                                                                                                   units and messages from directors in
                                                                                                   charge(p.9)
1.2          description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.
                                                                                                   annual report（pdf：8,832kb）
                                                                                                   (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library/pdf
                                                                                                   /annual/ar2010eng.pdf)

2. organizational profile

                                                                                                   corporate profile(http://sfc.jp/english
2.1          name of the organization.
                                                                                                   /information/aboutus/)

                                                                                                   corporate profile(http://sfc.jp/english
2.2          primary brands, products, and/or services.
                                                                                                   /information/aboutus/)

                                                                                                   overview of sumitomo forestry business
             operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating
2.3                                                                                                units and messages from directors in
             companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.
                                                                                                   charge(p.9)

                                                                                                   corporate profile(http://sfc.jp/english
2.4          location of organization's headquarters.
                                                                                                   /information/aboutus/)

             number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries
                                                                                                   our business(http://sfc.jp/english
2.5          with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the
                                                                                                   /information/jigyou/)
             sustainability issues covered in the report.

                                                                                                   corporate profile(http://sfc.jp/english
2.6          nature of ownership and legal form.
                                                                                                   /information/aboutus/)

             markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of          corporate profile(http://sfc.jp/english
2.7
             customers/beneficiaries).                                                             /information/aboutus/)

             scale of the reporting organization, including:
               number of employees;
                                                                                                   corporate profile(http://sfc.jp/english
               net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector
                                                                                                   /information/aboutus/)
2.8            organizations);
                                                                                                   financial factbook(http://sfc.jp/english
               total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private
                                                                                                   /information/ir/zaimu/index.html)
               sector organizations); and
               quantity of products or services provided.

             significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or
             ownership including:
               the location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings,   editorial policy for environmental and
2.9
               and expansions; and                                                                 social report 2010(p.4)
               changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation,
               maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations).




                                                                     176

      g3
                                                  description                                                        location
disclosure

                                                                                                      pursuing universal design(p.78)
                                                                                                      promoting renovation projects(p.80)
                                                                                                      plants with safe and healthy
                                                                                                      workplaces(p.102)
2.10         awards received in the reporting period.                                                 passing on skills(p.105)
                                                                                                      sumitomo forestry's corporate
                                                                                                      advertising wins awards(p.107)
                                                                                                      the 3r d annual kids design
                                                                                                      award(p.107)

3. report parameters

report profile

3.1          reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided.                  reporting period(p.4)

3.2          date of most recent previous report (if any).                                            publication date(p.5)

3.3          reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)                                                 publication date(p.5)

3.4          contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.                        publication team(p.5)

report scope and boundary

             process for defining report content, including:
                 determining materiality;                                                             process for formulating the material
3.5
                 prioritizing topics within the report; and                                           issues(p.19)
                 identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report.

             boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities,     editorial policy for environmental and
3.6
             joint ventures, suppliers).                                                              social report 2010(p.4)

3.7          state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report.                                       -

             basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced
3.8          operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from                              -
             period to period and/or between organizations.

                                                                                                      fy2009 environmental
             data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including
                                                                                                      accounting(p.124)
3.9          assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation
                                                                                                      environmental impact of business
             of the indicators and other information in the report.
                                                                                                      activities(p.126)

             explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier
3.10         reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions,                                 -
             change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods).

             significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or
3.11                                                                                                not applicable
             measurement methods applied in the report.

gri content index

3.12         table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report.                g3 content index(p.176)

assurance

             policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the
             report. if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability
3.13         report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. also             reliability of report content(p.4)
             explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance
             provider(s).




                                                                      177

      g3
                                                 description                                                   location
disclosure

4. governance, commitments, and engagement

governance

                                                                                                corporate governance(p.67)
             governance structure of the organization, including committees under the
                                                                                                annual report（pdf：8,832kb）
4.1          highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting
                                                                                                (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library/pdf
             strategy or organizational oversight.
                                                                                                /annual/ar2010eng.pdf)

             indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive     annual report（pdf：8,832kb）
4.2          officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the   (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library/pdf
             reasons for this arrangement).                                                     /annual/ar2010eng.pdf)

             for organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of
4.3          members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or                                   -
             non-executive members.

             mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or
4.4                                                                                             corporate governance(p.67)
             direction to the highest governance body.

             linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body,
4.5          senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the        corporate governance(p.67)
             organization's performance (including social and environmental performance).

             processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of
4.6                                                                                                               -
             interest are avoided.

             process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the
4.7          highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic,                         -
             environmental, and social topics.

             internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and
                                                                                                sumitomo forestry's csr and four
4.8          principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the
                                                                                                material issues(p.15)
             status of their implementation.

             procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's
             identification and management of economic, environmental, and social
4.9          performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or          environmental management(p.159)
             compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and
             principles.

             processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance,
4.10                                                                                            corporate governance(p.67)
             particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance.

commitments to external initiatives

             explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is          compliance and risk management(p.69)
4.11
             addressed by the organization.                                                     environmental management(p.159)

             externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles,
4.12                                                                                            global compact(p.62)
             or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses.

             memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or
             national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization:
               has positions in governance bodies;
4.13                                                                                            contributions to public policy(p.113)
               participates in projects or committees;
               provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or
               views membership as strategic.

stakeholder engagement

4.14         list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.                            sumitomo forestry stakeholders(p.18)

4.15         basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.                          -

             approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by         process for formulating the material
4.16
             type and by stakeholder group.                                                     issues(p.19)




                                                                    178

   g3
                                                   description                                               location
disclosure

                                                                                               providing timber products and materials
                                                                                               from sustainable forests(p.21)
                                                                                               providing environmentally friendly
             key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder                 homes(p.34)
4.17         engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and        promoting global warming
             concerns, including through its reporting.                                        countermeasures through our
                                                                                               business(p.43)
                                                                                               promoting family-centered employee
                                                                                               lifestyles(p.50)

5. management approach and performance indicators

economic

                                                                                               economic report(p.71)
                                                                                               annual report（pdf：8,832kb）
             disclosure on management approach
                                                                                               (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library/pdf
                                                                                               /annual/ar2010eng.pdf)

aspect: economic performance

                                                                                               financial performance(p.71)
                                                                                               funds allocated to social contribution
             direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating
                                                                                               activities(p.110)
ec1          costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments,
                                                                                               annual report（pdf：8,832kb）
             retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.
                                                                                               (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library/pdf
                                                                                               /annual/ar2010eng.pdf)

                                                                                               annual report（pdf：8,832kb）
             financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's
ec2                                                                                            (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library/pdf
             activities due to climate change.
                                                                                               /annual/ar2010eng.pdf)

                                                                                               annual report（pdf：8,832kb）
ec3          coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations.                  (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library/pdf
                                                                                               /annual/ar2010eng.pdf)

ec4          significant financial assistance received from government.                                            -

aspect: market presence

             range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at
ec5                                                                                                                -
             significant locations of operation.

             policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at
ec6                                                                                            using japanese timber in homes(p.146)
             significant locations of operation.

             procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the    hiring policies at group companies
ec7
             local community at locations of significant operation.                            outside japan(p.95)

aspect: indirect economic impacts

             development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided        contributing to the community by
ec8          primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono             improving social infrastructure(p.72)
             engagement.                                                                       using japanese timber in homes(p.146)

             understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including
ec9                                                                                                                -
             the extent of impacts.

environmental

             disclosure on management approach                                                 environmental report(p.114)

aspect: materials

en1          materials used by weight or volume.                                               balance of input and output(p.126)

en2          percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.                                       -




                                                                      179

   g3
                                                 description                                                    location
disclosure

aspect: energy

en3          direct energy consumption by primary energy source.                                 balance of input and output(p.126)

en4          indirect energy consumption by primary source.                                      balance of input and output(p.126)

en5          energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.                                          -

                                                                                                 providing environmentally friendly
             initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and
en6                                                                                              homes(p.34)
             services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.
                                                                                                 reducing co2 emissions(p.130)

                                                                                                 reducing co2 emissions from
en7          initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved.
                                                                                                 offices(p.132)

aspect: water

en8          total water withdrawal by source.                                                   balance of input and output(p.126)

en9          water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.                                           -

en10         percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.                           efficient use of water resources(p.158)

aspect: biodiversity

             location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected      management of company-owned
en11
             areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.                 forests(p.144)

             description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on
                                                                                                 initiatives to preserve biodiversity(p.59)
en12         biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside
                                                                                                 preserving biodiversity(p.151)
             protected areas.

                                                                                                 mt. fuji manabi no mori project(p.108)
en13         habitats protected or restored.                                                     launch of large-scale commercial forest
                                                                                                 plantation business(p.150)

             strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on               policy and plans for biodiversity
en14
             biodiversity.                                                                       preservation(p.59)

             number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species with
en15                                                                                                                -
             habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.

aspect: emissions, effluents, and waste

                                                                                                 sumitomo forestry group: fy2009 co2
en16         total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.
                                                                                                 emission volume(p.46)

                                                                                                 sumitomo forestry group: fy2009 co2
en17         other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.
                                                                                                 emission volume(p.46)

                                                                                                 promoting global warming
                                                                                                 countermeasures through our
en18         initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved.
                                                                                                 business(p.43)
                                                                                                 reducing co2 emissions(p.130)

en19         emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.                                                     -

                                                                                                 management of chemical substances at
en20         no, so, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.
                                                                                                 research institute and plants(p.154)

                                                                                                 balance of input and output(p.126)
en21         total water discharge by quality and destination.                                   management of chemical substances at
                                                                                                 research institute and plants(p.154)

en22         total weight of waste by type and disposal method.                                  zero emissions initiatives(p.138)

en23         total number and volume of significant spills.                                                         -




                                                                      180

   g3
                                                description                                                       location
disclosure

             weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous
en24         under the terms of the basel convention annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage                      -
             of transported waste shipped internationally.

             identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and
                                                                                                  efficient use of water resources at
en25         related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's
                                                                                                  plants(p.158)
             discharges of water and runoff.

aspect: products and services

                                                                                                  providing timber products and materials
                                                                                                  from sustainable forests(p.21)
                                                                                                  providing environmentally friendly
                                                                                                  homes(p.34)
             initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and
en26                                                                                              promoting global warming
             extent of impact mitigation.
                                                                                                  countermeasures through our
                                                                                                  business(p.43)
                                                                                                  reducing the environmental impact of
                                                                                                  households(p.133)

             percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by
en27                                                                                                                 -
             category.

aspect: compliance

             monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions       efforts to reduce environmental
en28
             for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations.                           risks(p.161)

aspect: transport

             significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and
                                                                                                  reducing co2 emissions from
en29         materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of
                                                                                                  transportation(p.132)
             the workforce.

aspect: overall

                                                                                                  fy2009 environmental
en30         total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type.
                                                                                                  accounting(p.124)

labor practices and decent work

             disclosure on management approach                                                    together with our employees(p.94)

aspect: employment

la1          total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region.                 basic personnel policy(p.94)

la2          total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.                            -

                                                                                                  creating a workplace in which a diverse
             benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or
la3                                                                                               range of employees can work together
             part-time employees, by major operations.
                                                                                                  with enthusiasm(p.94)

aspect: labor/management relations

la4          percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.                 relations with the labor union(p.100)

             minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is
la5                                                                                                                  -
             specified in collective agreements.

aspect: occupational health and safety

             percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management—worker
la6          health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational                               -
             health and safety programs.

             rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number       improving quality and workplace safety
la7
             of workrelated fatalities by region.                                                 at housing construction sites(p.91)




                                                                     181

   g3
                                                 description                                                       location
disclosure

             education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place
                                                                                                  creating a safe and healthy
la8          to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding
                                                                                                  workplace(p.101)
             serious diseases.

la9          health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.             relations with the labor union(p.100)

aspect: training and education

la10         average hours of training per year per employee by employee category.                multifaceted training(p.104)

             programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued      development of sumitomo forestry's
la11
             employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.               human resources(p.103)

             percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career                     development of sumitomo forestry's
la12
             development reviews.                                                                 human resources(p.103)

aspect: diversity and equal opportunity

             composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category             employee hiring and promotion
la13         according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other                 policies(p.95)
             indicators of diversity.                                                             promoting affirmative action(p.98)

la14         ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.                                              -

human rights

             disclosure on management approach                                                    our values and ideals(p.17)

aspect: investment and procurement practices

             percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include
hr1                                                                                                                   -
             human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening.

             percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone
hr2                                                                                                                   -
             screening on human rights and actions taken.

             total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects       human rights programs(p.99)
hr3          of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of         prevention of sexual and power
             employees trained.                                                                   harassment(p.99)

aspect: non-discrimination

hr4          total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.                                           -

aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining

             operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and
hr5          collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support                           -
             these rights.

aspect: child labor

             operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and   prevention of child labor and forced
hr6
             measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor.                      labor(p.102)

aspect: forced and compulsory labor

             operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or
                                                                                                  prevention of child labor and forced
hr7          compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or
                                                                                                  labor(p.102)
             compulsory labor.

aspect: security practices

             percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or
hr8                                                                                                                   -
             procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.




                                                                      182

   g3
                                                  description                                                         location
disclosure

aspect: indigenous rights

             total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and
hr9                                                                                                                      -
             actions taken.

society

                                                                                                       our values and ideals(p.17)
                                                                                                       compliance and risk management(p.69)
                                                                                                       contributing to the community by
             disclosure on management approach                                                         improving social infrastructure(p.72)
                                                                                                       together with society(p.106)
                                                                                                       preservation and sustainable use of
                                                                                                       overseas forest resources(p.149)

aspect: community

                                                                                                       contributing to the community by
             nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and
                                                                                                       improving social infrastructure(p.72)
so1          manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering,
                                                                                                       preservation and sustainable use of
             operating, and exiting.
                                                                                                       overseas forest resources(p.149)

aspect: corruption

             percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to
so2                                                                                                    compliance and risk management(p.69)
             corruption.

             percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and
so3                                                                                                    compliance and risk management(p.69)
             procedures.

so4          actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.                                     compliance and risk management(p.69)

aspect: public policy

             public policy positions and participation in public policy development and
so5                                                                                                    contributions to public policy(p.113)
             lobbying.

             total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians,
so6                                                                                                                      -
             and related institutions by country.

aspect: anti-competitive behavior

             total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and
so7                                                                                                  not applicable
             monopoly practices and their outcomes.

aspect: compliance

             monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions
so8                                                                                                                      -
             for noncompliance with laws and regulations.

product responsibility

                                                                                                       together with our customers(p.76)
             disclosure on management approach                                                         together with our business
                                                                                                       partners(p.87)

aspect: customer health and safety

                                                                                                       providing high-quality homes with
             life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services
                                                                                                       excellent all-round balance(p.76)
pr1          are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and
                                                                                                       providing high-quality timber and
             services categories subject to such procedures.
                                                                                                       building materials(p.87)

             total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary
pr2          codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during                                  -
             their life cycle, by type of outcomes.




                                                                        183

   g3
                                                description                                                     location
disclosure

aspect: product and service labeling

                                                                                                 providing timber products and materials
                                                                                                 from sustainable forests(p.21)
             type of product and service information required by procedures, and                 adherence to housing performance
pr3          percentage of significant products and services subject to such information         indication system(p.79)
             requirements.                                                                       timber used for housing(p.78)
                                                                                                 providing high-quality timber and
                                                                                                 building materials(p.87)

             total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary
pr4          codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of                             -
             outcomes.

             practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys            promoting communication with
pr5
             measuring customer satisfaction.                                                    customers(p.83)

aspect: marketing communications

             programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to
pr6                                                                                              standards for advertising(p.85)
             marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.

             total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary
pr7          codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion,        standards for advertising(p.85)
             and sponsorship by type of outcomes.

aspect: customer privacy

             total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer
pr8                                                                                              compliance and risk management(p.69)
             privacy and losses of customer data./th>

aspect: compliance

             monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations
pr9                                                                                            not applicable
             concerning the provision and use of products and services.




                                                                    184
