
contents
editorial policy for csr report 2012          3        relations with stakeholders                          29


our commitment                                5        csr highlight 2011                                   34


csr management                                         contributing to the recovery after
                                                       the great east japan earthquake                      38
 corporate philosophy                         10
 sumitomo forestry's business and csr         12
                                                       evaluation by non-group
 csr management based on four material
 issues                                       15
                                                       third parties                                        40

 participation in the united nations global
 compact                                      17

four material issues

 1. providing timber products and materials
    from sustainable forests                  19
 2. providing environmentally friendly
    homes                                     22
 3. promoting global warming
    countermeasure through our business       24
 4. promoting family-centric employee
    lifestyles                                27




                                                   1                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

performance data
management system                                                 environmental report

 corporate governance                                    43         fiscal 2011 activity plans and results                          131
 compliance                                              46         environmental vision
 risk management                                        49            environmental philosophy and environmental
                                                                      policies                                                      135
economic report                                                       medium-term environmental management plan                     137
                                                                   environmental management

 promotion of the project speed,                                     promoting environmental management                             140
 long-term management plan                               54          promoting environmental education and training                 144
 financial performance                                   55          environmental risk management                                  145
                                                                     promoting green purchasing                                     150
social report                                                       balance of input and output
                                                                      environmental impact of business activities                   151
 major initiatives in fiscal 2011                        56
                                                                      life cycle assessments                                        153
 together with our customers
                                                                      contribution to expanding carbon stocks                       157
   building long-lasting homes                           60
                                                                    tackling climate change
   communication with customers                          69
                                                                      policy & business impact                                      158
   property development programs                         74
                                                                      fy2011 co2 emission results                                   160
   housing distribution and renovation initiatives       78
                                                                      reducing co2 emissions in business activities                 161
 together with our business partners
                                                                      reducing energy consumption in homes                          171
   quality control for timber and building materials     80
                                                                    resource recycling
   procuring sustainable raw materials through the
   supply chain                                                       policy on resources                                           180
                                                         82
   our business partners' workplace health and safety                 zero emissions initiatives                                    181
   management                                            85           proper disposal of demolition waste                           185
   communication with our business partners              87           resource recycling                                            186
 together with our shareholders and investors            91         preserving forests
 together with our employees
                                                                      conservation and sustainable use of timber
   creating a workplace in which a diverse range of                   resources                                                     189
   employees can work together                           93           sustainable forestry in japan                                 191
   a safe and healthy working environment               101
                                                                      proactive use of domestic timber                              198
   human rights training for employees                  105
                                                                      overseas plantation forest operations and
   communication with our employees                     107           sustainable use                                               202
   human resource development                           110         preserving biodiversity
 together with society                                                policy and plans for biodiversity preservation                208
   communication with society                           116           initiatives at company-owned forests in japan                 212
   respect for human rights                             120           preservation of overseas plantation forests                   216
   contributing to the development of communities                     initiatives at landscaping business                           217
   outside of japan                                     123           initiatives at plants                                         220
   social contribution activities                       125
                                                                    management of hazardous materials                               221
                                                                    eﬃcient use of water resources                                  225
                                                                    environment-related businesses                                  227
                                                                    environmental accounting                                        237
                                                                    environmental data
                                                                      group companies in japan                                      239
                                                                      group companies outside japan                                 241


                                                                  third party evaluation                                            242


                                                                  contents index

                                                                    gri g3.1 content index                                          245
                                                                    iso26000                                                        260




                                                              2                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                       editorial policy for csr report 2012




  purpose of this report


the purpose of this report is to inform a wide range of stakeholders about the sumitomo forestry group's
policies and initiatives aimed at realizing a sustainable society.

sumitomo forestry considers that it is essential to clarify the important issues it faces. accordingly, the
company has formulated four material issues to address, based on the results of a survey given to its
stakeholders in fiscal 2007. since fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry gives priority to these four material issues
in its initiatives, the results of which are presented in this report.

the company’s principal method of informing stakeholders about its csr activities is the csr report on its
website. aiming to meet stakeholders’ diverse needs, the report also discloses highly specialized content.

in addition to the csr report on its website, the company provides content on the environment and forests on
its csr information website in order to effectively convey to its various stakeholders the information that will
be of most interest to them, based on their differing perspectives. it also actively uses its corporate profile,
annual report, and other media to enhance its communication with stakeholders.

  internal link: “csr report 2012” (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/index.html)

the csr report is no longer distributed as a brochure and is only available on the company’s website.
however, pdfs of the report are publicly available for download and printing.

  internal link: “pdf downloads / back issues” (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/pdf/index.html)
  link to related website: “csr” (http://sfc.jp/english/csr/index.html)

from this report onwards, information will be presented in three sections–policy & plans, results, and future
plans–in order to more accurately convey to stakeholders how the group is continuously improving its
activities through employing the pdca (plan–do–check (corrective)-action) management method. however, the
future plans section will not be included if only the same initiatives from the previous fiscal year are being
continued.



     those aspects of sumitomo forestry group’s efforts and its corporate spirit are repeatedly
     stressed and tend to stand out, while other parts involving data and materials based on facts
     remain hidden. therefore, i think that there are probably a lot of people who find it hard to read in
     this regard. (customer)



  reliability of report content


the respective departments of sumitomo forestry group have endeavored to ensure accuracy by using
appropriate measurement and data collection methods for the initiatives and results reported in the report.
these methods are also disclosed when relevant. sumitomo forestry group has solicited third-party opinions
from external specialists to impartially assess the appropriateness of the report's content and the company's
csr activities.



                                                           3                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                      editorial policy for csr report 2012



 reference guidelines


  sustainability reporting guidelines (edition 3.1), global reporting initiative (gri)
  environmental reporting guidelines (2012 edition), japanese ministry of the environment
  iso 26000:2010 guidance on social responsibility, japanese standards association



 reporting period


april 2011 to march 2012
(the period also includes some activities from april 2012, as well as future expectations.)



 companies cov ered in the report


although this report focuses mainly on sumitomo forestry co., ltd., the company considers it important to
cover activities of the entire sumitomo forestry group, and has been expanding its reporting scope. this
report covers 40 group companies and 5 affiliates considered to have material significance for the
sustainability of the entire sumitomo forestry group’s (47 consolidated subsidiaries, 23 affiliates) business in
japan and abroad.

  link to related website: “list of sumitomo forestry group companies”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/business/group.html)



 main changes during the reporting period


on april 1, 2012, the company completed an absorption merger of sumirin life assist co., ltd.



 publication date


the end of july 2012
(previous: july 2011; next: july 2013)



 publication team


sumitomo forestry co., ltd.
keidanren kaikan, 1-3-2 otemachi, chiyoda-ku, tokyo, japan 100-8270
csr team, corporate communications department
environmental management department




                                                       4                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                      our commitment




                                               guided by the sumitomo spirit developed over
                                               more than 320 years, we are aiming to be the
                                               “world’s leading forestry company” as we
                                               contribute to the development of society and the
                                               global environment.




 proactiv ely tackling the challenges of the housing industry


last year saw not only the occurrence of the great east japan earthquake, but also a powerful typhoon,
which struck the japanese islands in september. the fury of nature, including earthquakes and flooding, also
inflicted enormous damage on people’s lives and regional areas around the world. i would like to express my
heartfelt condolences to all those who were affected by these natural disasters.

we continue to actively participate in the recovery efforts following the earthquake, and have been working
tirelessly with our colleagues in the housing industry to construct emergency housing. there is a greater need
than ever for safe and secure living environments that can also conserve energy, and the earthquake has
acutely reminded us that homes form the basis both for people’s lives and social stability. i am convinced that
the group’s mission is to develop homes that are even more resilient to natural disasters, as well as being
more secure and comfortable to live in. the earthquake highlighted issues including a lack of genuinely
antiseismic housing, the liquefaction of housing foundations, and shortages of building materials when supply
chains are disrupted. however, the housing industry as a whole is now reevaluating these issues and pushing
forward to develop all possible countermeasures.




                                                       5                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                        our commitment



 w orking to realize prosperous and sustainable housing and lifestyles


we are having to respond not only to people’s increasingly diverse needs for their living environments, but
also to changes in social conditions, including the enactment of new environmental regulations and changes in
population dynamics. in march 2010, for example, japan revised its basic plan for housing under the basic
act for housing.

the sumitomo forestry group is utilizing all of its available resources to construct a wide range of high-quality
wooden homes that are antiseismic, energy conserving, and long-lasting, allowing people to live comfortably in
them for many years. japan will soon have to confront the issue of how the nation can effectively utilize its
existing stock of houses. homes can be transformed by ensuring antiseismic and providing a comfortable living
environment, and in this regard we are also actively involved in the remodeling and renovation market.
overseas, we are identifying the needs of each region and offering our customers new home lifestyles by
combining the wooden construction technologies and housing culture we have nurtured in japan.



 emboldened by the power of forests and the sumitomo sprit, we are aiming to be the
 “world’s leading forestry company”


forests are a renewable natural resource and have an important function in the global environment in that they
absorb and sequester carbon dioxide. sumitomo forestry has consistently carried out our sustainable forestry,
based on a process comprising the planting of trees, the cultivation of forests and their use as natural
resources, and replanting. we continue to pursue the possibilities offered by wood and maximize these
possibilities in our operations, so that wood plays a beneficial role both in the natural environment and the lives
of people. last fiscal year, we employed the cloning propagation technologies developed in our initiative to
regenerate tropical rainforests in indonesia to grow seedlings from the single pine tree in rikuzentakata that
survived the tsunami, bringing a ray of hope to people in the devastated area. we also launched a particle
board manufacturing operation in vietnam, employing technology to utilize timber that was previously discarded
as waste wood. going forward, we will further enhance the value of wood to achieve even deeper recognition
in society of the excellence of wood as a resource and the crucial importance of forests. in turn, this
recognition will help us to achieve sustainable management and further enhance our corporate value.

at the sumitomo forestry group, we have been continually working to protect forests for over 320 years,
guided by the sumitomo spirit of pursuing business to the benefit of society based on the principles of integrity
and sound management. this spirit reflects the universal principles on human rights, labor, and the environment
that are expressed in the united nation’s global compact, in which we have been a participant since 2007.
we will continue to develop sustainable operations on a global scale as we cultivate forests and utilize the
timber from these forests. each and every one of the group’s 15,000 employees, both inside and outside of
japan, will work as one to contribute to the development of society and to the global environment, while
earning the trust of our stakeholders as we strive to become the “world’s leading forestry company.”




                                                        6                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                          our commitment




we will continue to fulfill our corporate social
responsibility by researching and pursuing the
possibilities of wood to enhance the added value of
timber as a resource.




  continuing to employ the entire strength of the group to support the recov ery of the
  disaster region


i would like to express my heartfelt condolences to all those who have suffered in the unprecedented damage
caused by the great east japan earthquake. as we look back at the turbulent days following the earthquake,
the feelings of sadness and anger remain, but even in the face of great loss we are reminded of people’s
enormous strength and hope in the future. in contributing to the construction of emergency housing immediately
after the earthquake as well as regional community-building projects, we have drawn courage from the smiling
faces and strength of character shown by the local people. going forward, we will continue to employ the
collective efforts of the group as we support the recovery effort and work to ensure that people in the
devastated areas can live in security and comfort as soon as possible.



  cooperating with stakeholders based on a global v ision and local action


the sumitomo forestry group’s business field is closely linked to wood. it encompasses a wide range of
operations including reforestation, forestry management, building materials manufacturing, housing, distribution
of timber and building materials, and wood biomass, which we are developing in 13 countries and 40 regions
worldwide. the world shares many common problems, not least environmental issues, but people’s homes and
lifestyles differ according to the climate and culture of each region. in developing our operations, it is vital that
we combine a global perspective with an understanding of how to conduct activities at the local level. with this
goal in mind, on april 1, 2012, we restructured our business in order to maximize our management resources
and quickly address shifts in the fast-changing global environment. our organization is made up of employees
with a common mission, who carry out their daily duties with enthusiasm and a sense of vocation based on our
group-wide corporate philosophy and action guidelines. i believe this enables us not only to contribute to
society, but also to further enhance our corporate value.

in 2007, the group formulated four material issues to be prioritized in our operations, three of which are
closely connected with global environmental issues. in fiscal 2011, we made the following progress with these
issues:



                                                          7                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                        our commitment



1. providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests
    we achieved our fiscal 2012 target of 70% handling of timber from certified forests and plantation forests,
    one year ahead of schedule.
2. providing environmentally friendly homes
    we have been focusing our efforts on the sale of energy-efficient homes. for example, in fiscal 2011 we
    increased the solar power installation rate to 36%, an 8% increase over the previous fiscal year.
3. promoting global warming countermeasures through our business
    we achieved a 5.6% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions compared with the previous fiscal year, in part
    thanks to our electricity saving measures.

going forward, the group will maintain concerted efforts to reduce emissions.

our fourth material issue – promoting family-centric employee lifestyles – was designed so as to position
our employees as key stakeholders.

in fiscal 2011, we conducted an employee satisfaction survey and provided all group employees with an
analysis of the survey results as well as a statement concerning the group’s initiatives. i myself have also
been communicating as much as possible with our employees on a daily basis.

in fiscal 2012, we plan to launch the power for the future project, a scheme in which employees can propose
new business ideas, and we look forward to receiving a diverse range of ideas that transcend the boundaries
between different business units.



 fulfilling the group’s mission while focusing on the renewable natural resource that is
 wood


today, there is a pressing need to build a sustainable society, and in october 2010, the tenth conference of
parties to the convention on biological diversity (cop 10) was held, followed in june 2012 by the rio+20
earth summit.
the sumitomo forestry group is developing a wide range of home and lifestyle-related businesses with a
focus on timber, which is a renewable and environmentally sound natural resource. we have established a
sustainable business cycle of planting, cultivating, logging, and replanting, and we have developed
technologies that allow us to utilize each and every logged tree for the benefit of society. in this sense, the
sumitomo forestry group is uniquely positioned in being able to contribute to the global environment while also
further enhancing our corporate value and achieving growth.

last fiscal year, we formulated the sumitomo forestry group declaration of biodiversity, in order to work even
harder to preserve biodiversity. in the declaration, long-term targets equivalent to the aichi targets, which are
global targets set out at cop10, are further broken down to match actual business activities, and we have
already launched initiatives toward achieving these targets. these activities have been positively received,
and in may 2012 the development bank of japan commended us as an advanced model business, its highest
ranking for environmental performance. this demonstrates that our initiatives promoting environmental
management are also helping to further enhance our economic value, and this also serves as a great
encouragement for our future business activities.

in recent years, the business potential of forests and timber has widened with the creation of new added value
for wood as an environmental resource in areas such as carbon offset credits, wood biomass power
generation, and reforestation consulting services. our responsibility to global society is to provide more
countries and regions with our expertise and technologies, in order to support the development of local

                                                        8                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                    our commitment



communities and create employment for local people. in short, i see this as the mission of the sumitomo
forestry group as we strive to become the “world’s leading forestry company.”




                                                      9                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   csr management > corporate philosophy




 corporate philosophy


the sumitomo forestry group's corporate philosophy advocates utilizing timber as a renewable, healthy, and
environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributing to realizing a prosperous society through all types of
housing-related services. in order to realize this philosophy and to develop corporate integrity deserving of the
trust of society, it is imperative to achieve a balance among the three csr aspects of economic, social
contribution, and environmental activities. in this context, so that each and every employee can consider the
significance of their own tasks, behavior, and interaction with society from a csr perspective, as well as
respond to the expectations of society, we have formulated a statement entitled “our work and csr.” as a
point of reference for group employees for what should be considered as most important in relation to their
actions, we formulated the statement, “our values and ideals.”

   corporate philosophy


    the sumitomo forestry group utilizes timber as a renewable, healthy, and
    environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributes to a prosperous
    society through all types of housing-related services.

    action guidelines
       sumitomo spirit        we conduct business that is beneficial to society based on the
                              principles of integrity and sound management.
       respect for            we work to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values
       humanity               diversity.
       environmental          we are dedicated to effectively addressing environmental issues with
       responsibility         the aim of achieving a sustainable society.
       putting customers      we are thoroughly committed to customer satisfaction through the
       first                  provision of high-quality products and services.



   our w ork and csr

by utilizing sumitomo forestry's unique expertise on timber and housing, we intend to create “spiral of
happiness,” based on the keywords of “utilization,” “development,” and “bringing together,” that will lead to the
individual development of employees, customers, local communities and the earth's environment.




                                                        10                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  csr management > corporate philosophy




  joy in utilizing sustainable resources
  1. utilize timber     2. utilize forests        3. utilize traditions

  joy in development
  1. nurture families   2. develop homes          3. foster communities

  joy in bringing people together
  1. bring employees together         2. bring society together
  3. bring the world together


internal link: our work and csr (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/csr.html)


code of conducts


our values and ideals


  we have thoroughly reviewed our ethical charter and ethical action guidelines
  and following discussions among group employees, we have reformulated the
  action guidelines into three pillars, which constitute our ethical core, and
  created 15 priority items.

  1. inspire emotion
  1. customer satisfaction        2. partnership        3. independence and support

  4. freedom and vigor        5. reflection and learning

  2. blaze a trail to the future
  1. sustainable development         2. respect for families          3. accumulation and creation

  4. giving back to the community            5. environmental responsibility

  3. act with dignity
  1. passing on sumitomo’s business spirit           2. legal compliance

  3. information handling       4. respect for human rights and diversity

  5. autonomous actions


internal link: our values and ideals (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/values.html)




 sumitomo forestry has a global scope and vision and is a leading japanese company that i am
 proud of. (customer)




                                                        11                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                      csr management > sumitomo forestry's business and csr




 sumitomo forestry's business and csr


the history of sumitomo forestry dates back 320 years. in japan's meiji era, sumitomo carried out a
large-scale reforestation plan to restore the mountain forests of besshi in the shikoku region after pollution
from smelting and mining operations damaged the area. planting as many as one million trees a year over
several years, sumitomo succeeded in returning the mountains to their original lush condition. the spirit behind
this ‘preservation forestry’ allowed resources to be continually utilized in a pattern of logging followed by
planting, and eventually led to the concept of ‘sustainable forestry’. as a leading company in sustainability,
sumitomo forestry is harnessing this spirit in its current operations.

society has significantly changed in recent years as a result of the global environmental problems and social
issues that have emerged. as a corporate group that conducts forest management and provides timber and
homes to customers both within japan and overseas, sumitomo forestry group believes that it can play a
significant role in resolving these problems.




                                                        12                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

     csr management > sumitomo forestry's business and csr




13                     sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                  csr management > sumitomo forestry's business and csr




i would like the company to further use its operations to fulfill corporate social responsibilities.
(shareholder and investor)
i think that it is wonderful that your business helps to preserve our country’s environment. it is
quick to lose our forests and reforestation doesn’t happen overnight, so i hope you continue to
develop as a company and preserve forests for future generations. (other stakeholder)


                                                     14                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                               csr management > csr management based on four material issues




 csr management based on four material issues


sumitomo forestry has identified four priority issues that are particularly relevant to our businesses. in this
selection, we solicited stakeholder feedback regarding areas where their expectations are high, and narrowed
down responses to four issues in fiscal 2007.

these have become priorities for our initiatives. keeping a close watch on changes in society and
reassessing the current situation, sumitomo forestry will remain committed to creating a sustainable society,
while always listening to and acting on stakeholders' views.


    four material issues

       internal link: “providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests" (p.19)
       internal link: “providing environmentally friendly homes” (p.22)
       internal link: “promoting global warming countermeasures through our business” (p.24)
       internal link: “promoting family-centered employee lifestyles” (p.27)




     i feel proud to be an employee of the company and to do work that contributes to society.
     (employee)




 the process for determining the material issues



  1.selection of candidate material issues
     based on discussions with specialist third parties, responses to previous csr report, and
     opinions received through employee workshops, a total of 27 issues were identified as sumitomo
     forestry should tackle.

  2.understanding the issues that are important to our stakeholders
     total of 143 customers, business partners, analysts, investors, members of the press, employees,
     and relevant experts were surveyed for these 27 issues, which allowed us to prioritize various
     expectations held by stakeholders towards sumitomo forestry.

  3.consideration of importance from the perspective of business strategy
     priority levels in the context of sumitomo forestry's business activities were clarified based on
     management level discussions.




                                                        15                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                        csr management > csr management based on four material issues



4.determination of material issues
   sumitomo forestry management determined the four material issues by selecting the three issues
   which had scored most highly in the stakeholder survey, and then adding an item which employees
   felt strongly about.




                                                  16                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                  csr management > participation in the united nations global compact




  participation in the united nationsglobal compact


in december 2008, we formally signed the united nations (un) global compact to declare our support for its
principles.

the ten principles of the un global compact are based on globally established agreements, including the
universal declaration of human rights, and the international labour organization’s (ilo) declaration on
fundamental principles and rights at work. they incorporate support of and respect for the protection of
human rights and the eradication of forced labor and child labor.


    the ten principles of the un global compact

     human rights
     principle 1:   businesses should support and respect the protection of
                    internationally proclaimed human rights; and
     principle 2:   make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.

     labour
     principle 3:   businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the
                    effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
     principle 4:   the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;
     principle 5:   the effective abolition of child labor; and
     principle 6:   the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.

     environment
     principle 7:   businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;
     principle 8:   undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and
     principle 9:   encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.

     anti-corruption
     principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and
                    bribery.




                                                          17                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                    csr management > participation in the united nations global compact


  the un global compact content index


    area                                  principle                                                    location

                                                                                    ・ our values and ideals (p.11)
                                                                                    ・ communication with our business
                                                                                      partners (p.87)
                                                                                    ・ procuring sustainable raw materials
                               the support and respect of the protection of           through the supply chain (p.82)
                principle 1
                               international human rights                           ・ a safe and healthy workplace (p.101)
human rights                                                                        ・ respect for human rights (p.120)
                                                                                    ・ communications with society (p.116)
                                                                                    ・ human rights training for employees
                                                                                      (p.105)

                               the refusal to participate or condone human          ・ our values and ideals (p.11)
                principle 2
                               rights abuses.                                       ・ respect for human rights (p.120)

                               the support of freedom of association and
                                                                                    ・ communication with our employees
                principle 3    the recognition of the right to collective
                                                                                      (p.107)
                               bargaining

                                                                                    ・ prevention of child labor and forced
                principle 4    the abolition of compulsory labor.
                                                                                      labor (p.121)

                                                                                    ・ prevention of child labor and forced
labor           principle 5    the abolition of child labor;
                                                                                      labor (p.121)

                                                                                    ・ creating a workplace in which a diverse
                                                                                      range of employees can work
                               the elimination of discrimination in                   together (p.93)
                principle 6
                               employment and occupation.                           ・ human rights training for employees
                                                                                      (p.105)
                                                                                    ・ respect for human rights (p.120)

                               the implementation of a precautionary and
                principle 7                                                         ・ environmental report (p.131)
                               effective program to environmental issues.

                               initiatives that demonstrate environmental
environment     principle 8                                                         ・ environmental report (p.131)
                               responsibility.

                               the promotion of the diffusion of
                principle 9                                                         ・ environmental report (p.131)
                               environmentally friendly technologies

                               the promotion and adoption of initiatives to
                                                                                    ・ our values and ideals (p.11)
anti-corruption principle 10   counter all forms of corruption, including
                                                                                    ・ compliance (p.46)
                               extortion and bribery.




                                                               18                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                          four material issues > 1. providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests




 four material                1. prov iding timber products and materials from sustainable
 issues                       forests


there continues to be a decline in the world’s forests through illegal logging and excessive slash-and-burn
farming, with approximately 52 million hectares 1 lost over the past ten years (about 1.4 times the area of
japan). in indonesia, where sumitomo forestry is engaged in business activities, there has been a reduction
in forests of around 5 million hectares 1 over the past ten years. in order to continue using timber resources
into the future, it is essential to use timber from forests in which sustainable forest management is carried out,
and never to use timber derived from illegal logging.

sumitomo forestry procures timber from around the world, primarily southeast asia and europe. in fiscal
2007, sumitomo forestry established its timber procurement philosophy & policy and action plan, and has
promoted procurement of timber from forests that have been verified as legally compliant and appropriately
managed. in fiscal 2009, verification of compliance by all direct overseas suppliers was completed, as was the
domestic timber used for the housing division’s properties in fiscal 2011. in addition to legal compliance, from
fiscal 2010 the company has promoted the use of environmentally friendly timber in accordance with its action
plan and is aiming to achieve the plan’s targets by fiscal 2012. as part of verification activities, since fiscal
2012 it has also been carrying out csr surveys at all its suppliers to confirm that they are observing human
rights and maintaining appropriate labor conditions.

in addition, the economic development of regional society and enhancement of people’s living standards are
crucial elements in resolving issues such as forest degradation and reduction caused by illegal logging and
slash-and-burn farming. in its overseas plantation forestry business, the company has therefore promoted
social forestry together with local people. going forward, sumitomo forestry will continue promoting the use of
sustainable timber resources by expanding forest management in a way that contributes to environmental
protection and the development of regional society.

major performance data

                                                            fy2007           fy2008         fy2009           fy2010           fy2011

percentage of certified timber and plantation
                                                                  －            －                   64%             60%              70%
timber2

overseas plantation land area3                                3,077ha         3,312ha          4,313ha         5,046ha        13,905ha

company-owned forests in japan, land area                    40,567ha        41,532ha        42,642ha         42,636ha        42,868ha


1 fao “global forest resources assessment 2010”
2 results after enactment of action plan for timber procurement
3 land area under plantation forestry management for each fiscal year




                                                                        19                                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                             four material issues > 1. providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry continues to advance initiatives based on the action plan for timber procurement, which
sets targets for fiscal 2012.



action plan for timber procurement

  segment             division                                    action plan・fy2012 target

                                      with the objective of contributing to the global environment, expand the use and
                                      handling of timber from forests certified as legally compliant and sustainable
                                      (fsc®, pefc, sgec); timber from sustainable plantation forests; and timber
group-wide                            from forests in japan to promote revitalization of the domestic forestry industry.

                                      do not use, handle or purchase illegally logged timber. continue handling 100%
                                      certified legally compliant directly imported timber and timber products.

action plan by division

               forestry &
                                      maintain 100% certification of company-owned forests (sgec certification).
               environmental

domestic       business department

forestry /     of forestry and
                                      preserve and protect biodiversity in company-owned forests.
domestic       environment division

distribution   sumitomo forestry
                                      promote handling of japanese timber / increase by 75% of volume handled
               wood products co.,
                                      from fy2009.
               ltd.

               timber & building
                                      promote use and handling of timber from certified forests (fsc®, pefc,
timber         materials division
                                      sgec) and plantation forests.
distribution   international
                                      increase to 70% of total volume handled.
               marketing department

domestic       sumitomo forestry      promote use of timber from certified forests (fsc®, pefc, sgec), plantation
manufacturing crest co., ltd.         forests, and domestic timber. increase to 5% of total volume handled.

                                      promote and expand use of timber produced in japan. maintain 70% share of
                                      japanese domestic timber used in principal structural members.
housing        housing division
                                      expand use of timber from certified forests (fsc®, pefc, sgec) and double
                                      the volume used compared with fy2009.




                                                          20                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                             four material issues > 1. providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests


  results

handling of legitimate timber and timber products
  green procurement guidelines and timber procurement standards (p.82)
  preservation and sustainable use of forest resources (p.189)

increasing the handling of timber from certified forests, plantation forests and japanese
domestic timber
  promoting sustainable forestry in japan (p.191)
  initiatives for efficient and labour-saving harvesting of trees (p.193)
  using tree shelters for low density cedar reforestation in tokushima prefecture (p.193)
  building a forest management model utilizing airborne laser imaging detection and ranging (lidar)
  technology (p.194)
  streamlining management of company-owned forests through joint operations (p.194)
  proactive use of japanese domestic timber (p.198)
  using japanese domestic timber in homes (p.199)
  using japanese domestic timber in products (p.200)
  development of efficient timber drying technology (p.201)
  promoting the plantation forestry business overseas (p.202)
  increasing the handling of timber from certified forests and plantation forests (p.204)
  implementing a large-scale commercial forest plantation (p.207)

csr procurement
  procuring sustainable raw materials through the supply chain (p.82)
  communication with our business partners (p.87)

related pages in previous reports
      （2010） kikorin-plywood: creating a sustainable cycle of timber resources
      (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2010_01.pdf)
      （2009） taking up the challenge of acquiring forestry certification with local farmers
      (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2009_01.pdf)
      （2008） toward a sustainable business model using plantation timber
      (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2008_01.pdf)
      （2007） preserving japan’s abundant forests for the next generation
      (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2007_01.pdf)
      （2007） protecting the world’s forests from illegal logging
      (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2007_02.pdf)


  future plans

the company will continue to work towards its targets for the fiscal 2012 at the same time as formulating its
action plan for fiscal 2013 and beyond.




     i felt that the company communicates its position of cultivating forests while continuing to use
     japanese domestic timber. (customer)




                                                          21                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    four material issues > 2. providing environmentally friendly homes




 four material                  2. prov iding env ironmentally friendly homes
 issues


given that the household sector accounts for 14.4%1 of japan’s total co2 emissions, additional energy
conservation is required in daily living in order to combat global warming. it should be possible to reduce the
environmental impact of homes at the stages of construction, occupation and demolition.

as a supplier of around 9,000 detached homes each year, sumitomo forestry employs the ryouonbou design
method that utilize the power of nature, solar power generation systems, and fuel cell units. at the same time,
the company is developing its plantation forestry business to offset co2 emissions during the process from
tree logging for principal structural members through to construction, while also developing life cycle carbon
minus (lccm) homes to reduce co2 emissions in the overall life cycle.

sumitomo forestry believes that the proactive use of domestic timber not only in the principal structural
members, but also in interior materials and furniture, helps to preserve japanese forests and promotes
revitalization of the forest industry.
sumitomo forestry is engaged in initiatives to preserve biodiversity, including the planting of native trees in
domestic gardens as well as forests, and is also advancing a wide range of housing-related environmental
initiatives to help realize a society in which houses are used long-term across generations, including extending
the life of houses and renovation.

1 from the greenhouse gas inventory office of japan’s data on greenhouse gas emissions in japan, which details the distribution of co2 emission in fiscal
   2010 per sector (totals for indirect emissions)



major performance data2

                                                                fy2007             fy2008            fy2009             fy2010            fy2011

 domestic timber as % of principal structural
                                                                        51%               70%                70%               70%                70%
 members2

 number of native trees planted                                            －                 －            17,753            18,075             22,246

 solar power installation rate                                             －                4%               22%               28%                36%

 percentage certified under the excellent
                                                                           －                 －                  －            83.5%             85.1%
 long-term housing promotion act


2 survey target: homes constructed using the multi-balance construction method, the company’s principal method



   policy & plans

  strengthen provision of environmentally sound housing
  strengthen environmental landscaping operations
  expand renovation operations


                                                                          22                                     sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                               four material issues > 2. providing environmentally friendly homes


  results

strengthen development of environmentally sound housing
  policy for long-lasting homes (p.60)
  developing of life cycle carbon minus (lccm) homes (p.171)
  reducing energy use through the ryouonbou design concept (p.174)
  growing use of solar energy in houses (p.176)
  solar hot water system developed (p.177)
  adoption rate of next-generation energy conservation standards (p.178)
  providing environmentally sound homes in australia (p.179)
  waste reduction at new housing construction sites (p.181)
  using japanese timber in homes (p.199)

strengthen environmental landscaping operations
  landscaping operations that help to preserve biodiversity (p.217)

expand renovation operations
  developing earthquake-resistant renovation technologies (p.67)
  promoting environmentally friendly, energy-saving renovation (p.178)

related pages in previous reports
     （2010） sumitomo forestry: building homes, creating forests
     (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2010_02.pdf)
     （2009） myforest [gs] environmentally friendly homes for long-term reliability
     (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2009_02.pdf)
     （2008） realizing environmentally-friendly “local production for local consumption” type housing
     (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2008_02.pdf)
     （2007） learning from our forerunners—living in harmony with nature through ryouonbou design
     (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/activity/pdf/2007_03.pdf)


  future plans

  strengthen provision of environmentally sound housing
  promote residential greening operations
  expand renovation operations




    i think the provision of environmentally sound homes is extremely important for everyone, whether
    people, other living creatures, or even the earth itself. (customer)
    the company’s consistent environmental philosophy, from construction through to demolition,
    really resonates with me. (customer)




                                                      23                                 sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                          four material issues > 3. promoting global warming countermeasures through our business




 four material               3. promoting global warming countermeasures through our
 issues                      business


climate change resulting from global warming is a serious environmental problem facing the planet. the durban
platform was adopted in 2011 at the 17th session of the conference of the parties (cop17) at the united
nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc). it set the goal of holding down the increase in
the global average temperature to below 2 °c, or 1.5 °c above pre-industrial levels. japan declared it would
not participate in the platform until the completion of the kyoto protocol's second commitment period, but it
seems inevitable it will have to reconsider the international commitment it made at a 2009 summit of cutting
total greenhouse gas emissions to 25% below 1990 levels by the year 2020.

sumitomo forestry is emitting co2 in its offices and plants both inside and outside japan, as well as during
activities including harvesting at mountain worksites and housing construction. we promote energy-saving
initiatives in offices and plants, and the use of biomass to reduce co2 emissions in the company’s business
activities. in addition, by the absorption and storage of co2 through our forest management, we will help to
stem global warming.


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is advancing initiatives aimed at achieving its new co2 reduction targets set in the
medium-term environmental management plan formulated in december 2009.


    new co2 emission volume reduction targets

    offices                          ： by fy2010, achieve a 12% reduction in overall emissions compared
                                        with fy2006, and maintain this level to fy2014

    subsidiaries in                  ： by fy2014, achieve an 8% reduction in emissions per unit sold
    manufacturing                      compared with fy2006 (all group companies, including offices)
    businesses in japan1

    overseas subsidiaries ： set targets for each plant in consideration of local laws and
    in manufacturing                    regulations, including overall emissions, emissions per unit sold, and/or
    businesses outside                  other targets as appropriate to each facility.
    japan
     1 each plant set its own basic unit targets. in addition, reduction rates for combined co 2 emissions compared to fy2006 levels serve
        as a progress benchmark.




                                                                         24                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                              four material issues > 3. promoting global warming countermeasures through our business


    results

co2 emissions (at offices)




note: figures in brackets indicate the percentage change compared with fy2006, the benchmark year.
note: numeric values for co2 emissions by administrative departments are figures used for management of progress on an organization-wide basis for the
      base year (2006).
note: in fiscal 2011, sumitomo forestry offset its co2 emissions from offices, by utilizing the forest-absorption credits issued under the j-ver system; 1,590
      tons in fy2010 and 2,542 tons in fy2011 respectively.


   co2 emissions for the entire group are given in the section “actual amount of co2 emissions in fiscal 2011
   (p.160)” in this report.
   results for plants in japan and plants outside japan are reported under “sumitomo forestry group co2
   emission volume reduction targets (p.161)” in this report.
   the results of co2 emissions per output unit by plants in japan and outside japan are listed in
   “environmental data. (p.239)”

activities at offices, factories and distribution
   life cycle assessments (p.153)
   sumitomo forestry group co2 emission volume reduction targets (p.161)
   reducing co2 emissions from offices (p.163)
   implementing power-saving measures in response to the great east japan earthquake (p.164)
   reducing co2 emissions from plants (p.165)
   reducing co2 emissions from transportation (p.167)
   participating in japan's trial integrated emissions trading market (p.170)
   cdm business using wood biomass power generation (p.232)
   promoting wood biomass power generation (p.233)




                                                                             25                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                              four material issues > 3. promoting global warming countermeasures through our business



reducing co2 during construction and occupancy
  plantation forest operations to offset co2 emitted by principal structural members from harvesting timber to
  construction of housing (p.169)
  developing life cycle carbon minus (lccm) homes (p.171)
  reducing energy use through the ryouonbou design concept (p.174)
  growing use of solar energy in houses (p.176)
  solar hot water system developed (p.177)
  adoption rate of next-generation energy conservation standards (p.178)
  promoting environmentally friendly, energy-saving renovation (p.178)
  providing environmentally sound homes in australia (p.179)


   future plans

the company is working to achieve the targets for reducing overall co2 emissions set out in its medium-term
environmental management plan. in addition to continuing with initiatives to reduce electricity consumption in
offices, it is also carrying out initiatives to further reduce its use of gasoline and other fossil fuels.




     i think global warming is simply a reflection of the daily buildup of activities, so i would like
     sumitomo forestry to keep the figures in mind as it conducts its business. (customer)




                                                           26                                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                             four material issues > 4. promoting family-centric employee lifestyles




 four material            4. promoting family-centric employee lifestyles
 issues


in order to continue providing its customers with the highest possible value, it is essential for the company’s
employees to be healthy and happy. particularly since sumitomo forestry supplies homes that form the basis
of people’s lifestyles, the company considers it to be important for its employees themselves to value their
time with their families and achieve an appropriate work-life balance. in addition, employee diversity is the
basis for creating new values for the company.

accordingly, sumitomo forestry strives to create a workplace that enables a diverse range of employees to
tailor their work styles to their lifestyles and aims to be an attractive company for its employees. to date, the
company has made various improvements through establishing systems and enhancing communication with its
employees. in fiscal 2011, the company focused on maintaining a workplace environment that supports
employees raising children and reducing overtime.

major performance data

                                          fy2007    fy2008   fy2009        fy2010         fy2011

utilization of refresh vacation program       52%      45%         61%           59%           42%

utilization of childcare leave
                                            100%      100%       100%          100%          100%
(women who gave birth)

ratio of disabled employees                1.67％     1.54％      1.83％         2.04％         1.93％


   policy & plans

  act for measures to support the development of the next generation: setting the 4th action plan
  arranging a supportive workplace environment for employees on raising children / encouraging male
  employees to take childcare leave
  implementation of measures to reduce overtime
  promotion of utilization of paid holidays


   results

  appropriate control over working hours and reduction of overtime (p.101)
  creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees can work together (p.93)
  maintenance of various personnel-related regulations
  developing human resources (p.110)




                                                        27                                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                         four material issues > 4. promoting family-centric employee lifestyles


future plans

promoting the use of the child care and nursing system
holding meetings for male employees with children to share ideas on child raising
continuing to hold the women’s forum
implementing trial work reforms toward reducing overtime work
promoting the use of the career support desk
implementing the five year human resources development plan




  i get the good impression that you are a company that cares about its employees. (customer)
  it is great that you place the happiness of your employees’ families as one of your top priorities.
  (investor)




                                                    28                                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                       relations with stakeholders




  sumitomo forestry stakeholders


sumitomo forestry group’s businesses are founded on its
relations with its customers, business partners, local communities,
employees, and other stakeholders. the group adopts a wide
range of perspectives in its communications with stakeholders
while striving to carry out business activities that meet the
expectations of society.
                                                                                  sumitomo forestry group stakeholders


communication with principal stakeholders

                                                                                                      link to the relevant
     stakeholder                                communication method
                                                                                                       page in the report

                        we stay in touch with customers for a considerable period after their
                        homes are constructed. following the action guidelines of “putting
                                                                                                        communication
                        customers first”, we are committed to making efforts to respond to
customers                                                                                               with customers
                        their expectations and trust.
                                                                                                        (p.69)
                        ・responding to customer inquires 24 hours a day and 365 days a year,
                        carrying out regular surveys after they move in, etc.

                        while communicating closely with building contractors and our timber
                        and building materials business partners, we work to enhance product
                        quality, reduce environmental impact, and improve workplace health and          communication
business partners       safety.                                                                         with our business
                        ・training and discussions on problems to promote exchange of                    partners (p.87)
                        information and improve construction techniques, evaluation of
                        suppliers in our housing business, etc.

                        we strive to actively disclose information and communicate with                 communication
shareholders and        shareholders and investors to build stronger bonds of trust with them.          with our
investors               ・earnings briefings, individual meetings for institutional and private          shareholders and
                        investors, etc.                                                                 investors (p.91)

                        we provide opportunities for employees to have their voices heard, with
                                                                                                        communication
                        the aim of creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees
employees                                                                                               with our
                        can comfortably work together.
                                                                                                        employees (p.107)
                        ・conduct employee surveys, communication with labor union, etc.

                        we value events and other opportunities for the company to
                        communicate its corporate stance.                                               communication
local communities
                        ・events to communicate the value of wood and trees, discussions with            with society (p.116)
                        local people involved in plantation work, etc.




                                                            29                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                  relations with stakeholders



dialogues with stakeholders held up to the present time

                                               theme                                                      year held

   exchanging opinions on the long term goals set in the declaration of biodiversity (p.30)           2012

   expanding opportunities for people with disabilities to improve corporate value
                                                                                                      2010
   (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/stakeholder/pdf/2010_01.pdf)（pdf：238kb）

   employee round-table discussion: creating a workplace in which employees can work together
   with enthusiasm                                                                                    2009
   (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/stakeholder/pdf/2009_01.pdf)（pdf：546kb）

   imparting ideas for sustainable homes to society
                                                                                                      2007
   (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/stakeholder/pdf/2007_01.pdf)（pdf：660kb）

   incorporating ngo ideas into a unique timber procurement policy
                                                                                                      2007
   (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/stakeholder/pdf/2007_02.pdf)（pdf：1.8mb）

   sumitomo forestry’s role in the creation of a sustainable society
                                                                                                      2006
   (http://sfc.jp/english/information/kankyo/stakeholder/pdf/2006_01.pdf)（pdf：460kb）




  exchanging opinions on the group’s plan for biodiv ersity and its long-term targets


on march 27, 2012, the company held a stakeholder meeting to
ask the opinions of various ngos who are experts in the field of
biodiversity. the meeting was part of the measures outlined in the
sumitomo forestry group’s declaration of biodiversity, action
guidelines, and long-term targets that it formulated earlier in the
same month. discussions took place on the three operational areas
of upstream, midstream, and downstream and the participants
engaged in a frank exchange of opinions over the course of the
two- hour-meeting.

  internal link: policy and plans for biodiversity preservation (p.209)


   opinions expressed at the meeting

upstream (forestry business, forest management)
  the majority of the forests for which you have set targets in no.3 of your individual long-term biodiversity
  targets (p.210) are in japan and i think you should set individual targets equally for domestic and overseas
  forests.
  i think it’s wonderful that all the forests you own within japan are sgec certified. i hope you are also aiming
  to acquire certification for your overseas forests.
  i know you are carrying out initiatives to preserve the peat wetlands in your industrial tree plantations in the
  peat wetland forests of indonesia, but i hope this is something you continue to pay the closest attention to.
  i would like you to implement additional measures to preserve areas with degraded natural wood and to
  regenerate tropical forests.




                                                          30                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                               relations with stakeholders



midstream (distribution business, manufacturing business)
  problems can occur even at certified forests, so when you audit your business partners i think it is a good
  idea to confirm conditions while also listening to the voices of local people and members of ngos.
  there is no law for private-sector organizations prohibiting the use of illegally logged timber, so i want the
  forestry industry to form a group to pressure the government to create such a law.
  even if we manage to return nature to its former state, i hope that you will aim to achieve timber processing
  that has a low environmental footprint and that helps to preserve biodiversity.
  while illegal logging of import of timber from overseas thus far been called into question, we are now in the
  stage to question whether timber is being produced in a sustainable manner. i would like you to more clearly
  communicate the message of proactively using timber produced with the next generation in mind.


dow nstream (other housing-related businesses)
  it is not easy for home owners to get information about the wood used in their homes, so i would like you to
  have more communication with the home owner to provide them with information such as on the carbon
  footprint generated by the wood used for their home.
  when developing land for housing, i would like you to create a green zone plan and aim at preserving
  biodiversity in urban areas.


the opinions of other stakeholders
  i think that in your declaration of biodiversity, you should also mention your history of procuring timber from
  overseas.
  i hope that you utilize the expertise you have accumulated in more than 300 years in your main forestry
  business and contribute to society by helping to realize a sustainable society.
  no other company has created long-term biodiversity targets equivalent to the aichi targets, so i hope you
  release the details of your targets for other companies to refer to and encourage them to follow your lead.
  people are once again realizing the real value that forests have and the important roles they play; for
  example, their roles in trapping co2, preserving the soil system, and recharging water sources. i hope that
  you are aware of this new perspective as going forward, i believe that a worldwide trend will be
  incorporating the value of natural capital into economic value.




                                                        31                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                    relations with stakeholders


  participants (titles, div ision/departments, etc. were correct at the time the meeting was
  held)

participants from ngos




      sayoko iinuma               teppei dohke                   kenichi nakazawa                   yasushi hibi
  planning and research        international affairs,             forest program           vice president, conservation
global environmental forum   conservation research           friends of the earth japan             international/
                                     division,                                                   managing diractor,
                             the nature conservation                                         conservation international
                                society of japan/                                                       japan
                               secretary of japan
                               committee for iucn

participants from the sumitomo forestry group
toshiro mitsuyoshi
   managing executive officer, divisional manager of the overseas business division

akito kataoka
   executive officer, divisional manager of the forestry & environment division

naoteru umesaki
   general manager of the tsukuba research institute

akira sekimoto
   general manager of the forest products trading department, timber and building materials division

koji shida
   timber group manager of the building materials procurement & logistics department, housing division

jiro kuramitsu
   president and director sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd.

toshiya ito
   technology manager sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. environmental greenification
   headquarters, tokyo marketing department




                                                        32                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                               relations with stakeholders


   responding to the opinions expressed

toshihiro komatsu, general manager of the environmental management department
it has been extremely instructive to hear the opinions on biodiversity of so many people, both from inside and
outside of the group, and i would once again like to say thank you to all participants.

at sumitomo forestry, our business is deeply involved in forests, timber, and housing, so today’s discussions
have served to reinforce us with the importance of tackling the issue of biodiversity head on. in order to help to
realize a sustainable society, from now on we must broaden the scope of our vision of forests beyond trees
and other plants. we need to consern all living organisms, whether insects, birds, small animals, large
mammals, or even microorganisms and fungi, and must reconsider the roles and relationship between all of
these living organisms in the natural environment; namely the way that they mutually affect each other. i feel
that doing this will provide us with an excellent opportunity to re-evaluate their importance within our business
activities. just as we are responding to the risk posed by climate change as one of the most important issues
of the environment, all of the relevant divisions and departments within the sumitomo forestry group will
actively work as one to carry out initiatives to help preserve biodiversity as an inseparable pair element of the
environment.




                                                        33                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                            csr highlight 2011




in this section, we introduce the initiatives that the sumitomo forestry group carried out in fiscal 2011 to help
realize a sustainable society

   preserv ing biodiv ersity


    formulating the declaration of                               opening dialogues with ngos
    biodiv ersity
                                                                                           in march 2012, the
 following the establishment in 2010 of the aichi
                                                                                           company held a
 targets, which are part of the international
                                                                                           stakeholder meeting to
 convention on biodiversity, in march 2012, the
                                                                                           discuss the sumitomo
 sumitomo forestry group formulated its declaration
                                                                                           forestry group
 of biodiversity, biodiversity action guidelines, and
                                                                                           declaration of
 biodiversity long-term targets. they reflect the
                                                             biodiversity, action guidelines, and long-term
 importance that we place on biodiversity and indicate
                                                             targets. honest and frank opinions were exchanged
 how we will act to preserve it.
                                                             among members of ngos and the group on

   policy and plans for biodiversity preservation            biodiversity issue and the group’s efforts to
   (p.208)                                                   preserve it.

                                                                 a meeting to exchange opinions on our
                                                                 biodiversity long-term targets (p.30)



    pushing ahead with our greening                              success in growing saplings from the
    initiativ es                                                 “pine tree of hope”

                                sumitomo forestry and                                      researchers from our
                                sumitomo forestry                                          tsukuba research
                                landscaping co., ltd.                                      institute successfully
                                have named                                                 germinated saplings from
                                biodiversity-sound plants                                  the seeds of the “pine
                                and trees to be used in                                    tree of hope,” which,
 landscaping “harmonic plants®” and have been                despite being severely damaged, was the only tree in
 actively promoting them through its exterior                takata matsubara to survive the tsunami caused by
 landscaping services. in addition, sumitomo forestry the great east japan earthquake.
 landscaping co., ltd. is providing an increasing
                                                                 social contribution activities for disaster support
 number of customers with consulting services on
                                                                 (p.125)
 how to preserve biodiversity in their corporate green
 zones.

   initiatives at landscaping business (p.217)
   expanding the scope of the company’s
   biodiversity greening business (p.227)




                                                            34                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                        csr highlight 2011



  expanding the possibilities of w ood


   promoting mocca (ｗ ood use integration)                    launching sm art solabo

                              in 2011, the company                                     in february 2012, the
                              established mocca                                        company launched the
                              (wood use integration)                                   smart solabo, which
                              department in order to                                   combines the energy-
                              expand the possible                                      conserving functions of
                              uses of timber through      wooden homes with the technologies of smart house.
promoting wood construction and the use of timber         it minimizes electricity consumption and co2
resource. it has launched its business within tokyo’s     emissions to provide a home that realizes both
23 wards with the construction of a wooden,               economic efficiency and reduction of an
fire-resistant, three-story building to function as a     environmental impact.
private-pay care facility for the elderly. this
                                                              developing life cycle carbon minus (lccm)
environmentally sound building makes plentiful use of
                                                              homes (p.171)
japanese timber, both for the interior and exterior
walling.

  property development compatible with an aging
  society (p.75)



   biomass power generation project                           env ironmentally sound kikorin-
                                                              plywood
a group company in indonesia, pt. rimba partikel
                                                                                       kikorin-plywood,
indonesia (rpi), has adopted a system for
                                                                                       which we launched in
generating power from wood biomass, using the
                                                                                       2009, is made from
offcuts generated by sawmills adjacent to its plant as
                                                                                       timber from sustainably
fuel. moreover, this wood biomass business has
                                                                                       managed forests, with
been registered as a clean development mechanism
                                                                                       more than 50% of its
(cdm) business and some of the credits it generates
                                                          raw material coming from fsc® and pefc certified
in the cdm scheme are being sold to companies
                                                          forests, and from timber from plantations with
within indonesia.
                                                          sustainable production.
  reducing co2 emissions from plants: wood
                                                              increased handling of timber from certified
  biomass power generation facility installed at
                                                              forests and plantation forests (p.204)
  rpi (p.165)
  cdm business using wood biomass power
  generation (p.232)




                                                         35                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                          csr highlight 2011



 contributing to society through our businesses ov erseas


   collaborating with a univ ersity in china to                receiv ing an honourable mention award
   recruit local students                                      for our indonesia plantation

                             we are developing our                              sumitomo forestry is pressing
                             businesses overseas                                ahead with its initiative to use
                             and in doing so we                                 the carbon offset credits created
                             pursue initiatives to                              from its new plantation in
                             create employment by                               indonesia to offset the co2
                             recruiting locally. for       emissions generated by its construction of detached
example, one of our group companies in china,              houses. in march 2012, the company received the
dalian its, is collaborating with a local university on    honourable mention award for this initiative in the
a program for training and recruiting local students       ministry of the environment-sponsored carbon
and the university has great hopes for the program.        offset awards.

  initiatives at group companies outside of japan              evaluation by non-group third parties (p.40)
  (p.114)
  hiring locally at group companies outside of
  japan (p.99)



   a zero-emissions home in australia                          acquiring fsc certification in papua new
                                                               guinea
                             since april 2010, the
                                                                             in september 2011, open bay
                             henley properties group
                                                                             timber (obt), a group company in
                             of australia, which is a
                                                                             papua new guinea, acquired
                             member of the sumitomo
                                                                             fsc®fm / coc certification for
                             forestry group, has
                                                                             11,770 hectares of the 31,260
                             been exhibiting its
                                                           hectares of plantation forest that it manages. this
zero-emissions demonstration house, which includes
                                                           certifies that it is managing this forest in an
technologies to conserve energy and water.
                                                           environmentally sound manner.
  providing environmentally sound homes in
                                                               increased handling of timber from certified
  australia (p.179)
                                                               forests and plantation forests (p.204)




                                                          36                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                        csr highlight 2011



 other initiativ es


  acquiring the highest rank in the dbj’s                     dev eloping renov ation technologies
  env ironmental rating
                                                          sumitomo forestry group is using its renovation
                   in april 2012, sumitomo forestry
                                                          technologies for existing homes to reduce the
                   was commended by the
                                                          financial burden on customers. in addition to
                   development bank of japan its
                                                          earthquake-resistant renovation that makes use of
                   highest rank in its dbj
                                                          traditional construction methods, the group is
                   environmental ratings. with this
                                                          developing renovation technologies in such areas as
rank, the djb recognized the merits of the
                                                          energy-conservation retrofitting to help realize
company’s sustainability initiatives, which include
                                                          optimized living environments.
the declaration of biodiversity, action guidelines,
and long-term targets; its thorough efforts to confirm        developing earthquake-resistant renovation
the legal compliance of the timber it procures and to         technologies (p.67)
actively promote the use of sustainable timber; and
or proposals for environmentally sound housing.

  evaluation by non-group third parties (p.40)



  rev iewing our disaster prev ention and                     holding a study meeting on human rights
  response and bcp countermeasures
                                                               in february 2012, the company held a study
in the report entitled disaster countermeasures and
                                                          meeting on the themes of iso26000 and human
verification of and issues for the business continuity
                                                          rights. twenty people attended, including the head of
plan (bcp), the group compiled the verification
                                                          the personnel department, and the participants were
results from its initial response to the march 2011
                                                          able to deepen their understanding of those issues in
earthquake and employee hopes and concerns taken
                                                          our business that may involve human rights.
from a survey. the group then instructed the risk
management committee to implement initiatives that            human rights training for employees (p.105)
reflected these hopes and concerns and also
implemented disaster prevention measures.

  reviewing our disaster prevention and response
  and bcp countermeasures (p.50)




                                                         37                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                  contributing to the recovery after the great east japan earthquake




                                                                     emergency housing construction sites


the sumitomo forestry group’s main initiatives up to march 2012

                                                   2011

             ・ occurrence of the great east japan earthquake on march 11 (at 14:46)
             ・ established “the tohoku area pacific ocean earthquake disaster countermeasures
               headquarters” (evening of march 11) (from april 11, renamed as “the great east japan
               earthquake countermeasures headquarters”).
             ・ confirmed subsequently the safety of customers. (from march 11)
             ・ posted a message on the sumitomo forestry website to all those in the disaster region.
march          (march 11)
             ・ transported materials to victims by securing toutes to the disaster zone.(march 12)
             ・ the mokujukyo association passed a resolution on the construction of emergency
               housing. sumitomo forestry also commenced preparations for the construction of
               emergency housing. (march 17)
             ・ announced that the sumitomo forestry group will donate 100 million yen to the recovery
               effort. (march 22)

             ・ establishmed the great east japan earthquake recovery headquarters within the quality
               control & customer information department in the housing division of sumitomo forestry
               establishment of the sendai center and the fukushima center under the direct control of
april          the headquarters (april 1)
             ・ announced that the group has established a special disaster region quota for the
               employment of new graduates. (april 14)
             ・ started the construction of emergency housing in miyagi prefecture (april 14)

             ・ introduced a system for employees to take leave for volunteer work, supporting their
may
               efforts to assist in the recovery

june         ・ delivery of 118 completed emergency houses in fukushima prefecture

             ・ launched the cheer up japan! support tohoku! project that positively utilizes timber from
july
               tohoku (p.126)



                                                           38                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                 contributing to the recovery after the great east japan earthquake



                                                 2011

            ・ delivery of a total of 386 emergency houses in miyagi prefecture.
            ・ established mito center under the direct control of the great east japan earthquake
august        recovery headquarters. (august 1)
            ・ established a home loan program specifically for homes that actively utilize timber from
              tohoku

            ・ established recovery support centers in miyagi prefecture in ishinomaki city and rifu
november
              town (rikuzenhamada)

december ・ succeeded in germinating sapling from the “pine tree of hope” in rikuzentakata (p.126)



                                                 2012

           ・ opening of a café constructed by sumitomo forestry as a temporary facility in
january
            rikuzentakata city (p.127)

february ・ established recovery support office in the corporate planning department

           ・ company’s “sustainable energy house (support tohoku)” was selected 3rd project for
march       promoting co2 reduction in the house and building by the ministry of land, infrastructure
            and transport (category: specified disaster areas) (p.173)




                                                          39                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                               evaluation by non-group third parties




 awards and ev aluation by non-group third parties


                    awards                                           evaluation                         scope of evaluation

                                                  “mamato, ” a lifestyle proposal type home
                                                  building product in the social kids products
                                                  category.
commendations in two categories in the 5th
kids design award (2011)
                                                  third consecutive year sumitomo forestry has         sumitomo forestry
july, 2011, organized by the kids design
                                                  won the prize in the future action category, for
association
                                                  the research into the effects of wood interiors
                                                  on children’s levels of relaxation and
                                                  concentration.

the 23rd commendations by the director-           sumitomo forestry and its two employees
general of the housing bureau, announced          dispatched to miyagi prefecture’s construction
during the home lifestyle month                   headquarters, which was responsible for
                                                  constructing emergency housing, were                 sumitomo forestry
october 2011, organized by the home               commended for their contribution to the
lifestyle month events central executive          construction of emergency housing following
committee                                         the great east japan earthquake

  2011 good design awards
                                                  big-frame construction method, seismic
  november, 2011, organized by the japan
                                                  energy absorbing panels, and its komazawa
  institute of design promotion                                                                        sumitomo forestry
                                                  second model home in setagaya ward, tokyo
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20111003.pdf)
                                                  were awarded the good design awards 2011

carbon offset grand prize
february 2012, organized by the carbon
offset network, sponsored by the ministry of
the environment                                   incentive prize for an initiative to offset co2
                                                  emissions from the construction of detached          sumitomo forestry
                                                  housing through reforestation in indonesia.




letter of appreciation from the director of the
                                                  for the activities for the international year of
forestry agency                                                                                        sumitomo forestry
                                                  forests
march 2012




                                                              40                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                            evaluation by non-group third parties



                      awards                                       evaluation                        scope of evaluation

  achieved the highest rank in the dbj's
  environmental rating and received a     highly evaluated through such initiatives as
  special commendation as a model company below;
  development bank of japan               the formulation of the declaration of
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20120427.pdf)       biodiversity, action guidelines and long-term
  april 2012                                     targets (p.209)
                                                                                                     sumitomo forestry
                                                 forest certification and active promotion of the
                                                 sustainable use of wood (p.204)
                                                 integrated sustainability measures, including
                                                 proposals for environmentally sound housing
                                                 (p.171)



commendation from the head of the aichi
bureau of labor ministry of health, labour and   achieved a record of zero accidents during          joint venture between
welfare for “zero accidents“ during the entire   construction work for the development of the        sumitomo forestry
construction period                              headquarters of the nagoya port authority           and chuo denki
april 2011

commendation from the head of the aichi          received a commendation from the head of
                                                                                                     joint venture between
bureau of labor for excellence in workplace      the work safety and health bureau for
                                                                                                     sumitomo forestry
health and safety practices                      construction work for the redevelopment of the
                                                                                                     and chuo denki
july 2011                                        headquarters of the nagoya port authority

  41st worldskills competition -london,
                                                                                                     an employee of
  united kingdom
                                                                                                     sumitomo forestry
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20111013.pdf)       silver prize, following a gold medal in 2010
                                                                                                     home engineering
  october 2011
                                                                                                     co., ltd.

                                                                                                     employees of
49th worldskills competition (shizuoka city,
                                                 silver medal and fighting spirit medal in the       sumitomo forestry
shizuoka prefecture)
                                                 construction and carpentry section                  home engineering
december 2011
                                                                                                     co., ltd.

                                                 grand prize
28th housing renovation competition
                                                 a case study where a former supermarket is
                                                                                                     sumitomo forestry
                                                 converted into a detached residential housing
january, 2012 , held by the center for housing                                                       home tech co., ltd.
                                                 complex with various barrier-free functions
renovation and dispute settlement support
                                                 added for the elderly and those with disabilities

                                                 highly commended in two categories,
                                                 “ecoinsulation large business award” and
new zealand eeca awards 2012
                                                 “contact energy – energy management                 nelson pine
may, 2012, held by new zealand energy
                                                 award” for reducing the use of wood for fuel        industries (npil)
efficiency and conservation authority (p.165)
                                                 and in the amount of electricity used,
                                                 respectively.




                                                           41                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                               evaluation by non-group third parties



 selection for model projects


                    awards                                          evaluation                          scope of evaluation

  adopted to the 3rd “home and buildings
  with reduced co2 guide for businesses”
                                                  adopted with a holistic approach to promote
  (specified disaster area section), fiscal
                                                  and raise awareness of energy conservation
  2011.
                                                  among residents by adopting energy                   sumitomo forestry
  ministry of land, infrastructure and
                                                  conservation technology and energy creating
  transport (p.171)
                                                  technology in a balanced manner.
  march, 2012


                                                                                                       joint research
                                                                                                       between sumitomo
                                                                                                       forestry tsukuba
adopted to the “businesses of cutting-edge
                                                  adopted with the development of high-quality         research institute,
technologies development for the
                                                  tomato cultivation system in order to develop        sumirin nousan co.,
regeneration of food producing regions”
                                                  and promote of ‘bag culture’ applied                 ltd., the university of
ministry of agriculture, forestry and fisheries
                                                  technologies, utilizing unused organic               chiba department of
reconstruction agency
                                                  resources                                            horticulture, and the
april 2012
                                                                                                       national agriculture
                                                                                                       and food research
                                                                                                       organization

                                                  adopted as an ‘existing homes distribution
  adopted in fiscal 2011; promotion of the
                                                  type’ initiative, targeting detached homes and
  distribution and rennovation of existing
                                                  flats and condominiums. part of costs is
  housing (existing housing distribution type)
                                                  subsidized in inspections by the association of
  ministry of land, infrastructure and                                                                 sumitomo forestry
                                                  housing warranty insurance, subscriptions for
  transport                                                                                            home tech co., ltd.
                                                  warranty insurance and the recording and
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110729.pdf)
                                                  accumulation of historical information, when
  july, 2011
                                                  trading existing housing or applying major
                                                  renovation work on joint-development housing.



 sri indices


 internal link: “inclusion in socially responsible investment indexes” (p.92)




                                                           42                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 management system > corporate governance




  corporate gov ernance


   corporate gov ernance guidelines

the sumitomo forestry group’s corporate philosophy is “to utilize timber as a renewable, healthy, and
environmentally friendly natural resource, and to contribute to a prosperous society through all types of
housing-related services.” in addition, one of its action guidelines is that “we conduct business that is
beneficial to society based on the principles of integrity and sound management,” and reflecting this it works to
ensure transparency in management, that its operations are appropriate and comply with laws, and to carry out
quick decision-making and execution of operations. through these efforts, the group is further strengthening
its corporate governance and continuously increasing its corporate value while conducting management that
lives up to the expectations that its many stakeholders have for the group.


   corporate gov ernance and internal control

corporate governance structure (as of april 30, 2012)




the company introduced the executive officer system to separate decision making and management oversight
from operational execution functions, enabling the seven directors comprising the board of directors to take
quick decisions. moreover, in april 2010, the oversight function of the board of directors was strengthened
and the lines of operational responsibility further clarified, as from this point the chairman of the board of
directors was no longer to serve as an executive officer. established as a company with auditors, sumitomo
forestry has five auditors, including three external auditors. in addition to attending important meetings within
the company, the auditors carrying out their auditing duties by sharing information and opinions with auditors at
group companies and the staff in the internal audit division, and by supervising staff assisting auditing
operations; in these ways it is strengthening the oversight function for our directors’ execution of operations.

as of april 1, 2012, we have 7 directors, 15 executive officers, and 5 auditors (of whom 3 are external
auditors).




                                                        43                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 management system > corporate governance


   board of directors(①) and executiv e committee (②)

in principle, the board of directors meets once a month, making decisions on important issues and carrying
out its supervisory function. fundamentally speaking, in addition to making decisions on all important items and
confirming business results, it supervises the directors’ execution of their duties. the executive committee,
which is a consultary body for the president, holds meetings twice a month, before the board of directors
meeting to ensure that there is sufficient prior discussion on important issues. it is attended by those directors
who also serve as executive officers, as well as the full-time statutory auditors. in fiscal 2011, the board of
directors met 18 times and the executive committee 27 times, and there was 100% attendance by all
directors at board of directors meetings.

based on the opinions of investors and social trends relating to the companies act, the company selects and
appoints external directors with a view to further strengthening and supplementing its corporate governance.
going forward, we will continue to investigate candidates for external directors so as to be ready to make the
appointment when the need arises.


   board of statutory auditors (③)

the statutory auditors, including the external auditors, utilize the deep insights and diverse perspectives they
have acquired from their various business backgrounds to provide oversight for the directors’ execution of
duties. the board of statutory auditors met 14 times during fiscal 2011. the board of statutory auditors’
meeting for the group is held once every two months.


   risk management committee (④)

in order to establish a system for managing business risk that encompassed group companies, the group
created the risk management basic regulations and the company president was appointed as the person
who is the highest authority on risk management within the company and group companies.

the group then established the risk management committee to appropriately and smoothly manage risk
based on these regulations and under its supervision we established permanent compliance and bcp
subcommittees, staffed by working-level managers. these committees create measures to effectively manage
risk to be implemented horizontally across the group and regularly report to the board of directors and the
auditors on these measures.

during fiscal 2011, the risk management committee met twice, the compliance subcommittee four times, and
the bcp subcommittee three times.


   csr committee (⑤)

the group established the csr committee and created a system to promote csr to strengthen links between
departments and divisions and make activities more closely reflect those at work sites. during 2011, it
appointed csr managers and carried out a csr survey at group companies.

based on a resolution of the csr committee, during fiscal 2012 the group appointed a csr manager in every
business department and group company to clarify the way employees can report on csr-related matters.
the business activities of the group are very broad and encompass forestry, manufacturing, sales and
marketing, and services, and for this reason it conducted the csr survey throughout the group so we could
precisely ascertain the csr situation and create a plan for promoting csr management based on the results
of the survey. the questions in the survey covered a wide range of topics, including human rights, labor
practices, health and safety, personnel training, and intellectual property rights.
                                                         44                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                              management system > corporate governance


   officer remuneration

in accordance with the law, we disclose in our business reports the total remuneration paid to officers
(directors and auditors, internal and external) in each fiscal year.

in fiscal 2011, remuneration of 394 million yen was paid to the nine directors, of which 299 million yen was
paid as their basic salary and 95 million yen was paid as bonuses.


  link to related website: “annual report 2012”
  (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library/pdf/annual/ar2012eng.pdf) (pdf：9,702kb)




     i would like sumitomo forestry to work toward ensuring that its management is transparent and
     fair. (management-related csr expert)




                                                        45                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                         management system > compliance




 compliance promotion system


the compliance sub-committee is the primary organization accountable for checking compliance with relevant
laws and ordinances closely related to the group’s business, such as the construction industry act and the
licensed architect act. in addition, it carries out initiatives so that it may fully understand and manage the
compliance situation and to increase awareness about it throughout the group to ensure compliance with
relevant laws in those of its businesses that require official approval.

also, some parts of the company’s businesses require that it enters into contracts with multiple external
specialists, such as from the construction industry, and we thoroughly manage the various approvals required
by outsourcers.


 compliance training


to improve the compliance of each and every employee, group training is carried out not only for new
employees but also for employees at each staff level, such as for managers and general managers. the
group’s e-learning program is a required training course for all group employees. also, whether within japan
or overseas, all employees complete a training course on starting work at a group company and then as
required throughout the careers.

   sponsoring seminars for compliance managers

the group held seminars for the compliance managers of all group companies led by external specialist
instructors. in fiscal 2011, the group organized seminars on such topics as the revised waste management
law and on the practise of using product accident risk maps. the revised waste management law seminar
was held in april 2011 and attendees were taught about their responsibilities following the revisions to this law,
which pertain to the integration of the responsibilities of the main contractor for construction-related waste and
also the processing of industrial waste. 50 working-level managers whose responsibilities include industrial
waste attended the seminar and through quizzes, an explanation of the most important aspects of the law, and
lectures from lawyers specializing in this field, they were able to deepen their understanding of this law and
thereby better comply with it.

in the practical seminar on product accident risk map, the r-map method, which is used as a reference for the
recall judgment by the ministry of economy, trade and industry and also complies with international standards,
was introduced to learn how to ensure customer safety for the group’s core businnes of detached housing.
the detached housing is composed of many products and parts that are procured from outside the group and
attendees learned the visualization process of risks so as not to put customers through defective products. 52
employees attended this seminar, including from the materials procurement department and from the quality
control & customer information department.




                                                        46                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                         management system > compliance



 compliance counter


in 2002, the sumitomo forestry group established the compliance counter to improve our ability to regulate
our own day-to-day business activities through rapidly detecting illegalities and other difficult-to-resolve forms
of misconduct and nipping them in the bud before they develop into serious issues. the group has two
compliance counters, one within the group and one outside it, and has in place a framework to enable those
who contact the counters for advice or to report a compliance violation to consult the relevant regulations and
a user manual and to ensure that their interests will not be harmed.

the group revised this manual in fiscal 2011 and it distributes it to all of its approximately 12,500 group
employees, including non-full time employees, and has been carrying out a range of initiatives to enable as
many people as possible to easily get advice and report a suspected violation. these initiatives including using
the intranet to increased awareness about the compliance windows, creating an email address only for use for
contacting the compliance counters, and including in the user manual the photographs of the male and female
lawyers who are available for consultations on the external compliance counter. as a result of these efforts, in
fiscal 2011 the compliance counter was contacted 25 times, a substantial increase on the 12 times during the
previous fiscal year.


 responding to compliance violations


when a compliance violation occurs, sumitomo forestry first aims to fully understand what actually occurred.
the compnay then formulates measures to prevent its reoccurrence and to ensure compliance in the future,
while also appropriately disclosing information relating to the violation.

after establishing precisely what occurred, we punish the employee responsible for the violation in accordance
with the relevant laws and company regulations.

   internal audits

the group periodically holds study meetings for the compliance managers that it appoints to conduct oversight
within group companies. in addition, internal auditors, members of the internal audit department, and risk and
compliance managers meet every month to report to share information on managing risk at every level within
the group.



 prev enting corruption


the group places the highest importance on a corporate spirit that earns it the trust of society and it instructs
its employees never to engage in behavior for personal gain that would damage this trust, to always obey
society’s rules and laws, and to compete in a fair and dignified manner.

  link to related website: “our values and ideals - legal compliance”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/values_03.html#cont02)




                                                         47                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                           management system > compliance



  fair competition


   policy & plans

securing healthy profits in an environment of free and fair competition

  link to related website: “our values and ideals - legal compliance”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/values_03.html#cont02)


   results

publishing the antimonopoly act guide book
the company used the opportunity provided by the january 2010 revision of the antimonopoly act to
investigate actual conditions relating to its associations with its competitor companies. the results of this
investigation enabled it to better grasp its various situations and judge how serious they are. further, in order
to ensure employees fully understand the risks from interactions with competitors, the company issued a guide
book that includes not only a summary of the relevant laws but also sections on matters of importance and the
correct approach to take when associating with other companies.



  respect for intellectual property rights


the group’s basic policy is to protect the intellectual property that it creates and to deal decisively with any
violations to its intellectual property rights.

  link to related website: “our values and ideals – information handling”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/values_03.html#cont03)


  rejection of influence from anti-social elements


sumitomo forestry sets forth in 2007 the new ethics and behavior code, “our values and ideals,”
institutionalizing the long-held principle of “influence from anti-social elements will be met with a resolute
attitude and no compromises will be tolerated.” this stance has been communicated widely both within and
outside the group. in accordance with this policy, all contracts that the group enters into include a clause to
exclude anti-social elements.




                                                         48                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   management system > risk management




 rapidly comprehending and dealing with risks


in recent years, the risks inherent in the company’s business environment have expanded in both nature and
scope. since 2002, the sumitomo forestry group has adopted a two-hour rule system designed to rapidly and
accurately communicate information to management in the event of an emergency situation that may have a
serious impact on company management.

by communicating information at an early stage, the goal is to enable management to make a rapid and
precise first response to the situation. also, by gathering and analyzing data, the company can disclose
information to its stakeholders in a timely and appropriate manner. moreover, it can take measures to prevent
incidents from occurring throughout the group by accumulating case studies.

sequence of events for the two-hour rule




  reconfirming risk items

based on the results of our 2008 survey conducted among 5,742 employees, the company created a risk map
and then linked this map to the activities of the risk management committee.

in the march 2012 meeting of the risk management committee, committee members reconfirmed and
reevaluated for their respective departments the degree of connection and the relative levels of importance of
the business risks defined in the risk management basic regulations and the securities report. in addition,
they reported on the measures that were carried out in fiscal 2011 to manage these risks. the details of the
meetings were reported to the board of directors and were used in promoting risk management based on the
pdca cycle.



 responding to disasters and emergencies


  policy & plans

as the organization primarily accountable for disaster risk, the business continuity plan (bcp) sub-committee
has developed business continuity plans for risks that are beyond the control of the company and could
significantly impact the headquarters’ functions, and acts based on these plans.




                                                      49                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    management system > risk management


   results

review ing systems for preventing and responding to disasters and emergencies
the company discussed measures for disasters and bcp through the report titled disaster countermeasures
and verification of issues in the business continuity plan (bcp). the report was completed through survey to
the wishes and concerns that it discovered in its efforts to verify conditions on the ground immediately after
the march 11th 2011 earthquake and also in the results of survey it conducted for all employees in the tohoku
and kanto areas. based on this document, it instructed the risk management committee (the great east
japan earthquake disaster restoration countermeasures division) to examine possible response measures,
and as a result of their recommendations we formulated our disaster countermeasures, whose main goals are
to strengthening our ability to prevent and respond to disasters in order to protect lives and our assets. they
constitute those measures to be carried out as standard throughout the group and include checking the levels
of safety at all of the group’s business sites within japan; implementing measures to ensure safety within work
sites, such as to prevent work equipment falling over; and selecting standardized disaster-preparation goods
and ensuring that at the least the minimal necessary level of these goods are stored at all sites. the disaster-
preparation goods to be stored at business sites in the tokyo metropolitan area, osaka, and nagoya should
be sufficient for three days of supplies for staff who are unable to return home due to a disaster and are
already being stores at all group business sites.
in reformulating the bcp, based on the issues extrapolated from the bcp training described below, we
reviewed the plan to ensure that we would be able to carry out all of our priority operations in the event of a
disaster, including paying employees who are at home or in other remote locations and paying the bills of our
business partners. also, while maintaining the highest levels of security we decided to move to a thin-client
setup for our emergency-use computers.
in addition, all group companies within japan were required to review and reformulate their bcp in
accordance with the business continuity guidelines and checklist released by the cabinet office.

implementation of bcp training (fiscal 2011)
december 2011: bcp large scale earthquake countermeasures simulation training
this training was carried out for managers responsible for disaster prevention and response and bcp in each
business division and group company; 55 people participated from 25 group companies in japan. the
simulation training was conducted so that the participants could get a sense of how ready they were to
respond to an emergency and to acquire the awareness necessary for them to create effective
countermeasures and maintain a system to carry them out. the group will continue to conduct this training in
the future based on a long-term perspective and for a wider range of employees.

february 2012: training in tokyo for countermeasures for
those unable to return home after a disaster
the group policy for its tokyo employees is for them to avoid
moving around the city after a major earthquake and so it instructs
its tokyo business sites to always have stored three days worth of
provisions for employees. in this training, the group envisaged that
employees would be able to start returning to their homes on the
fourth day after the earthquake, and the 10 designated individuals
practiced guiding employees out of each floor of our main building           training as for those unable to return
and through the imagined disaster area (from tokyo station to                       home after a disaster
tokyo international forum, and then to hibiya park). in conjunction
with this training, the company carried out training for employees in the head office building to reconfirm the
location of their emergency exits.

                                                       50                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                              management system > risk management



training in chiyoda ward for employees unable to return home after a disaster
this training was conducted for the third consecutive year. in addition to the members of the fire-safety team in
the head office, 19 members of bcp subcommittees from 4 companies participated in this training, including
those from an affiliated company with a business site in chiyoda ward, tokyo japan.

the compnay also carried out rescue and first aid training for the injured. participants practiced using a bar to
rescue trapped victims, transporting them on a stretcher, and carrying out emergency first aid and artificial
respiration using an aed device.

previous bcp measures (formulated in 2008) for an earthquake with an epicenter in the capital area

        year                                                                   measures

                       ① maintaining a bcp-based system for an earthquake with an epicenter in the capital area (selecting
                           alternative sites, preparing and installing infrastructure equipment, preparing a response manual,
                           etc.)
                       ② bcp training
                        ・ october 2009: initial-response training (securing lines of decision-making for each level of
                          management)
 2009
                        ・ october 2009: safety-confirmation training (confirming the safety of employees living in the capital
                          area and the three nearby prefectures)
                        ・ november 2009: training for executing priority operations after the disaster (confirming the
                          presence of key personnel in the countermeasures division within the temporary headquarters)
                        ・ january 2010: training in chiyoda ward, tokyo japan, for employees unable to return home after a
                          disaster

                       ① introducing a group-wide system for confirming the safety of employees
                       ② bcp training
                        ・ from august to october 2010: safety-confirmation training (all group companies)
                        ・ september 2010: training for executing priority operations after the disaster (reconfirming the
 2010                     presence of key personnel in the countermeasures division)
                        ・ january 2011: training in chiyoda ward for employees unable to return home after a disaster
                        ・ january 2011: experiencing disaster prevention at the life safety learning center, tokyo fire
                          department
                        ・ january 2011: training for emergency communication among management members



bcp for novel influenza (formulated 2008)
in fiscal 2009, the group prepared policies and manuals and put in place the necessary infrastructure and
hygiene goods to prepare for a potential outbreak. the group will continue to monitor the situation closely amid
lingering concerns about the risk of an outbreak and spread of a highly infectious strain of novel influenza.

measures to deal w ith disaster risks overseas
eight overseas group companies have prepared a crisis management, which is regularly reviewed and
updated. each group company also formulates their own bcp for a time of emergency, such as an earthquake
or other natural disaster.

the group also uses assistance companies1 to supplement its own framework for providing medical treatment
and crisis management for employees overseas.

1 it uses the services of two assistance companies, axa assistance japan and beijing forestry management consultancy co., ltd.




                                                                         51                                    sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    management system > risk management




     it is great that you have a system in place for confirming the safety of your employees and i am
     impressed with your track record of effectively utilizing stockpiles, especially after the great east
     japan earthquake. (customer)
     i would have liked you to describe your measures for dealing with disaster-related risks in a little
     more detail. (stakeholder)



  traffic safety


   policy & plans

group companies in japan, including sumitomo forestry have a total fleet of around 6,100 vehicles (as of the
end of march 2012) for using for work and for commuting. due to the size of this fleet, it maintains the system
for managing these vehicles and provide employees with training so that it may eliminate as much traffic
accidents and violations as possible.

   results

introducing the safe driving management system
the company has independently developed an integrated system to manage driving-related information, such
as data on when employees last updated their driving licenses and any violations they have committed, on car
inspection, and on insurance. in addition, since 2007 every branch has been required to submit a monthly
report detailing its safe driving performance. this system helps to prevent employees from forgetting to renew
their licenses, car inspection certification, or insurance. moreover, employees that use vehicles for work or for
commuting must immediately report traffic accidents and administrative measures to be taken against them,
and once a year they must acquire and submit a certified driving record. these regulations are playing a
useful role in preventing accidents from reoccurring and educating employees on the importance of safe
driving.

adoption as an employee evaluation item
almost all of the vehicles managed by the company are used at branches of housing devision. therefore,
from fiscal 2011 we included among the evaluation item we use for branch managers an attempt on to what
extent they have been able to eliminate traffic accidents among their branch’s employees.

constructing a traffic safety management system for all group companies in japan
through the efforts of the compliance sub-committee, in fiscal 2011 the group was able to standardize and
deploy througout group companies in japan a traffic safety management system, which had already been in
use by some group companies. this system includes regulations for the periodic updating of certified driving
records and on reporting traffic accidents and violations. in addition, the group identified which types of
accidents were occurring relatively frequently and created a poster showing practical steps that should be
taken to eliminate these accidents. these posters have been distributed throughout the group.


   future plans

going forward, the company will further strengthen its traffic safety management to improve traffic safety
among its employees.



                                                       52                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  management system > risk management



 information security


  improv ing the precision of information security in the sumitomo forestry group

in fiscal 2011, the company provided a range of guidance on information security policies. through the
affiliated companies it managers council, the company widely disseminated to group companies in japan
the revised content of the sumitomo forestry group information asset protection guidelines. it also
distributed a checklist to enable each company to identify any differences between the guidelines and their
own situation.

the company also initiated an information security e-learning course for employees in group companies in
japan.


  upgrading w eb foundations and strengthening it gov ernance

the sumitomo forestry group has used the cloud computing service provided by internet initiative japan inc.
(iij) to integrate the websites of group companies. the management of the system began in september 2010
and the shift to a cloud service is enabling the company to strengthen its it governance, based on the
group-wide strategy.


  future plans

in fiscal 2012, the company will issue guidelines for group companies outside of japan and plans to establish
a system for information security for the sumitomo forestry group throughout the world, not just domestically.


  link to related website: “personal information protection policy” (http://sfc.jp/english/personal_info/)




                                                      53                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                    economic report > promotion of the project speed, long-term management plan




   promotion of the project speed, long-term management plan


in fiscal 2007, the sumitomo forestry group established project speed, a long-term management plan
designed to provide direction for pursuing and developing business activities. while leaving the fundamental
direction of the project unchanged, in may 2011, it reviewed and updated the plan’s numerical targets in
response to the significant changes in its business environment.

the sumitomo forestry group has passed down its sustainable business practices from generation to
generation, as it plants and grows trees, uses the timber to produce building materials, builds houses, and finally
once again plants an equivalent number of trees to those it has used. the aim of this long-term management
plan is to expand the company's business by transforming the revenue structure and promoting a new mindset
among employees. with a strong commitment to sustainable business practices, the plan designates wood as
having a central role in enriching people's lives and contributing to the community.

  link to related website: “long-term management plan” (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/longtermplan.html)




                                                         54                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   economic report > financial performance




   financial performance


sumitomo forestry works to increase its opportunities to proactively disclosure information so it can build trust
with its stakeholders.

net sales (fiscal 2007 to 2011)




recurring income (fiscal 2007 to 2011)




consolidated net sales by segment (fiscal 2011)




  link to related website: “performance highlights” (http://sfc.jp/english/ir/highlights/performance.html)

                                                        55                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    social report > major initiatives in fiscal 2011




 together with our customers


priority areas         csr initiatives            fy 2011 results                  fy 2012 plan                  division

                                          ・ achieved 85.1% certification
                    build long-lasting     rate under the excellent             ・ promote excellent          housing
                    homes                  long-term housing promotion            long term housing          division
                                           act (p.60)

                                          ・ launched smart salabo, which
                                           is installed with a household
                    promote energy-        rechargeable battery system          ・ continue                   housing
                    saving homes           (p.172)                                popularization             division
provision of
                                          ・ achieved 36% of solar power
high-quality
                                           installation rate (p.176)
houses with
excellent overall                         ・ selected for mlit’s excellent
balance                                    long-term house leading
                                           model project in the ‘distribution
                                                                                ・ promote renovation         housing
                                           and renovation of existing
                                                                                  technologies that          division and
                    promote renovation     homes section’ (p.42)
                                                                                  improve the                sumitomo
                    projects              ・ launched smart reforest,
                                                                                  performance of             forestry home
                                           which is installed with the latest
                                                                                  existing housing           tech co., ltd.
                                           equipment toward achieving
                                           zero fuel and lighting costs
                                           (p.172)

                                          ・ launched sales of emergency
                                           supplies at on-line store in the
                                                                                ・ expand services
                                           club forest, a special website
communication                                                                     through an online          housing
                    provide information    for owners of sumitomo
with customers                                                                    store                      division
                                           forestry home houses (p.72)
                                                                                ・ continue activity
                                          ・ enhanced 24-hour, 365-day
                                           support service (p.69)




                                                         56                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    social report > major initiatives in fiscal 2011



 together with our business partners


priority areas       csr initiatives                  fy 2011 results               fy 2012 plan                 division

                                                                                                             timber &
                                           ・ investigated each new supplier                                  building
                                             when an order was made and         ・ additional                 materials
                                             reviewed existing suppliers          implementation of          division
                  ensure traceability of
                                             sequentially on a periodic basis     the csr survey at
                  timber
                                             to ensure compliance for all         overseas business          sumitomo
                                             timber imported directly from        partners                   forestry wood
                                             overseas (p.84)                                                 products co.,
                                                                                                             ltd.
procurement of
                                                                                ・ provide information
sustainable raw                                                                                              timber &
                                           ・ published the building               regarding
materials                                                                                                    building
                  enhance                    materials monthly informational      renovation market
                                                                                                             materials
                  communication with         magazine (p.88)                      and zero-energy
                                                                                                             division
                  the timber and                                                  homes

                  building materials                                            ・ reflect survey
                  business partners        ・ conducted a survey on
                                                                                  results in
                  communication with         production systems and csr
                                                                                  collaborative              housing
                  building contractors       (p.89)
                                                                                  relationships in           division
                                           ・ revised the supplier evaluation
                                                                                  fy2012 and
                                             standards (p.89)
                                                                                  beyond



 together with our shareholders and inv estors


priority areas       csr initiatives                  fy 2011 results              fy 2012 plan                  division

                                                                                ・ continue holding
                                           ・ held 145 individual meetings for
communication                                                                    individual meetings
                                            institutional investors (p.91)                                  corporate
with              improve information                                            for institutional
                                           ・ hosted ir meetings for                                         communications
shareholders      disclosure                                                     investors and
                                            individual investors, attended by                               department
and investors                                                                    briefings for
                                            about 360 people (p.91)
                                                                                 individual investors




                                                            57                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 social report > major initiatives in fiscal 2011



 together with our employees


priority areas       csr initiatives              fy 2011 results               fy 2012 plan                  division

                                                                             ・ promote the use of
                  help employees          ・ promoted the use of childcare-
                                                                              childcare- and
                  achieve a better         and family care-related
                                                                              family care-related
                  work-life balance        programs (p.95)
                                                                              programs

                                                                             ・ hold meetings for
creation of a     promote programs in
                                                                              male employees
workplace in      line with the law for
                                          ・ achieved 15 male employees        taking childcare
which a diverse   measures to support
                                           taking childcare leave (p.96)      leave to exchange
range of          the development of
                                                                              opinions and
employees can     the next generation
                                                                              information
work together
                                          ・ achieved a 24.1% share for
                                           women among newly hired
                  promote affirmative                                        ・ continue to hold
                                           graduates (p.97)
                  action                                                      forums for women
                                          ・ held the housing sales women
                                           job forum (p.98)                                               personnel
                                                                                                          department
                                                                             ・ implement a trial
                                          ・ launched initiatives to keep
                                                                              working hours
                  reduce overtime work     overtime work down at a model
a safe and                                                                    scheme to keep
                                           branch (p.101)
healthy                                                                       down overtime work

workplace                                 ・ maintained the ‘no smoking
                  implement an
                                           anywhere during working hours’              －
                  anti-smoking program
                                           program (p.101)

                                                                             ・ promote the use of
                                                                              the career support
                                          ・ implemented measures in the
human             provide employee                                            desk
                                           five-year human resource
resource          career consultation                                        ・ implement the first
                                           development plan (fy2011 to
development       and support                                                 year of the five-year
                                           fy2015) (p.110)
                                                                              human resource
                                                                              development plan




                                                         58                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    social report > major initiatives in fiscal 2011



 together with society


priority areas      csr initiatives                fy 2011 results                 fy 2012 plan                  division

                                           ・ a total of 539 children and
                                                                                                            corporate
                 mt. fuji manabi no          students participated in           ・ continue
                                                                                                            communications
social           mori project                environmental education             implementation
                                                                                                            department
contribution                                 programs (p.127)

activities for                                                                  ・ expand the
environmental    reforestation project     ・ completed reforestation of 310
                                                                                 reforestation area         forestry and
conservation     in indonesia’s bromo        ha in protected forests and
                                                                                 while nurturing the        environmental
                 tengger semeru              neighboring degraded areas
                                                                                 trees already              department
                 national park               (p.128)
                                                                                 planted

                                                                                                            overseas
                 kti educational           ・ provided scholarships for 46       ・ continue
                                                                                                            business
                 foundation                  recipients in indonesia (p.122)     implementation
                                                                                                            division

                                           ・ collaborated with and offered
                 contribute to public        suggestions to the government,     ・ continue offering         division
                 policy                      local government, and industry      suggestions                responsible
social
                                             (p.129)
contribution
activities                                 ・ provided support for
outside core                                 employees’ volunteer activities
businesses                                   for the recovery from the great
                 social contribution         east japan earthquake (p.124)
                                                                                ・ continue with these       personnel
                 activities for disaster   ・ succeeded in growing saplings
                                                                                 measures                   department
                 support                     from the “pine tree of hope,” in
                                             rikuzentakata city (p.126)
                                           ・ set up the riku café, etc.
                                             (p.127)




                                                           59                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                social report > together with our customers




 policy for long-lasting homes


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry believes that popularizing excellent long-term
houses that become social assets is vital for creating a prosperous
society. as such, the company is promoting the following policies to
extend the life of houses:

  make houses more reliable by improving their basic functions
  create comfortable living environments
  increase future options for layout to accommodate changes in
  lifestyles
                                                                             living space in japanese-style model
  enhance maintenance programs to support long-term upkeep                                    home




     i think it’s really wonderful that you are building homes in which people can live for many years.
     (company employee)



 excellent long-term housing initiativ es


   results

initiatives to obtain certification under the excellent long-term housing promotion act
concerning housing for which measures have been enacted to achieve their excellent long-term use,
construction and maintenance/preservation plans are assessed by the competent authorities on a house-
by-house basis to ensure compliance with certification standards. the achievement of certification brings
preferential terms, including in areas such as taxation and interest rates on loans. in fiscal 2011, 85.1% of all
houses constructed were granted excellent long-term housing certification.


   future plans

we will step up initiatives to improve the rate of certification based on the excellent long-term housing
promotion act.




                                                        60                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                social report > together with our customers




       a home that gives you a sense of japanese tradition and culture: i would like sumitomo forestry
       to develop houses that exude a calm ambience, not just for the people who live in them, but also
       for passers-by. (teacher)



  adherence to housing performance indication system


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry actively promotes the japanese housing performance indication system1 because it
ensures safe and reliable houses, and also raises their asset value.


    results

design performance evaluation: 98.2% implementation2
construction performance evaluation, which is recommended to customers to acquire along with design
performance evaluation: 87.6% implementation2

 1 the japanese housing performance indication system provides a highly reliable and objective evaluation by a third-party expert so that the customer can
    assess the quality and performance of a house. the system comprises 10 evaluation items, including structural stability, fire safety, durability, and energy
    efficiency.
 2 this rate pertains to all houses constructed, including additions and remodeling, whereas the housing performance indication system only applies to new
    construction.



  improv ing durability


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry has set a minimum expected service life of 75 years 1 for principal structural members to
ensure that the houses it builds are highly durable and can be passed down over three generations. standard
specifications for the structural framework are set at level 3—the highest level—for evaluations based on the
japanese housing performance indication system with respect to alleviated deterioration.

1 the number of years a material or component is expected to function as originally intended, assuming a certain level of maintenance (including regular
   inspections) as envisaged by sumitomo forestry.




       i appreciate that the company is working on the universal design and an improvement the
       durability of it's houses. (customer)




                                                                              61                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                social report > together with our customers



 dev elopment of a differential settlement correction method for housing


sumitomo forestry has collaborated with nisshin steel co., ltd. and nisshin kokan co., ltd. to develop the
differential settlement correction method for housing. in regions with soft ground, this method lifts up each of
the home's foundation blocks to correct the problem of differential settlement when it occurs. the three
companies began jointly developing this method in 2006, and it has a number of advantages over other
methods. for example, it is kinder to the environment than the conventional method that involves injecting
chemicals into the foundation, while it also offers superior corrosion resistance and lower costs than the
method that uses hydraulic jacks to lift the house. a patent application is pending.

  link to news release: development of a construction method for correcting unequal settling of homes
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20111004.pdf)



 highly versatile homes using the big-frame construction method


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry provides skeleton infill homes—a design concept that separates the structure from the
interior and equipment—based on the company’s original big-frame construction method utilizing the wooden
beam rahmen structure. the structure’s strength and high versatility makes it possible to alter the layout
according to changes that occur in future life stages.


   results

strengthening sales of the big-frame construction method
in fiscal 2011, the company took orders for 2,517 homes—around
a 160% year-on-year increase—as the features of its products
were appreciated by its customers.



                                                                           home using the big-frame construction
                                                                                              method




 disaster preparedness


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry offers three housing construction methods—multi-balance construction method, big-frame
construction method, and two-by-four construction method—which excel in seismic, wind and fire resistance
and meet various requirements. all structures that employ these three construction methods are among the
recomended supecifications of government regulated semi-fireproof construction houses by the japan
housing finance agency.




                                                         62                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                social report > together with our customers


    results

success in developing semi-fireproof wooden shinkabe structure: realizing construction
even in semi-fire prevention districts
in april 2011, sumitomo forestry developed a technology that allows a traditional shinkabe1 interior to be
constructed in wooden buildings, such as a three-story wooden house, in semi-fireproof districts, without
altering the standard depth of the pillars or walls in sumitomo forestry home houses. a patent application is
pending for this unique technology.

1 a wall structure in which the walls are set between the pillars and the pillars remain exposed when the wall is finished. this is commonly seen in traditional
   japanese rooms. this is in contrast to the okabe method, in which only the walls are visible while the pillars are hidden. this is often seen in western-style
   rooms.




       it was reported that homes were swept away by the tsunami caused by the earthquake, so
       shouldn’t you have thought more deeply about safety in this region? (company employee)



  houses designed to prev ent crime


    policy & plans

in its scrupulous attention to the details of its custom-built houses, sumitomo forestry proposes crime
prevention measures from the site survey and design stage.



  pursuing univ ersal design


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry offers houses that integrate universal design as the foundation, which are comfortable for
all members of the family and will be easy to live in for many years to come.

sumitomo forestry’s universal design




                                                                              63                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  social report > together with our customers


   results

research at sumitomo forestry’s tsukuba research institute based on human lifestyle
engineering
the tsukuba research institute is conducting research based on human lifestyle engineering using 3d motion
and view-tracking analysis equipment. in-home improvements are being made based on the results of this
research, including spatial configuration and traffic-flow planning tailored to the family's lifestyle, dimensional
planning designed to enable smooth and strain-free positioning and movements, as well as handrails and other
materials to prevent accidents.

employees 'experience' the universal design house
the company raises awareness of the universal design concept among employees by having them experience
living in the universal design house developed by the tsukuba research institute and encouraging them to
apply what they learn from this experience in their daily work. this includes simulating the experiences of an
elderly person.

publication of a building materials catalogue for housing for senior citizens
in december 2011, sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. published a building materials catalogue for housing for
senior citizens. it features beautiful wood-grained furniture and fittings and large doorways with plenty of space
for a wheelchair to pass, providing residents with homes that give them feelings of safety and comfort and also
enable nurses to carry out their duties more easily. not only the furniture and the fittings, but also the floors
and the walls are made of wood and designed always with the resident in mind, providing a range of functions
and a sense of refinement.

launch of the ikiki tw o-family homes that strengthens family bonds
in october 2011, we launched the ikiki two-family home for young working couples and their still active parents.
the homes are designed to facilitate intergenerational communication while also ensuring the residents have
private time, with spaces both for independent and communal living. moreover, these homes meet the sound
insulation 60 specification, as we used a newly developed method of constructing floors with highly efficient
sound insulation, helping to provide a comfortable, stress-free living environment.

  link to the news release: launch of the ikiki two-family homes that strengthens family bonds
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20111014.pdf)

launch of the mamato home that helps mothers raise their children
in june 2011, we launched the lifestyle proposal-type mamato home, based on the concept of “creating homes
where both mothers and their families can be happy.” the homes were developed mainly via consulting with
our female employees who were raising children or had done so in the past, and their ideas and concerns
were reflected in the home’s specifications. for example, we use traffic-flow planning to improve housework
efficiency and also fully utilize the results of the research that won us a kid’s design award.



  timber used for housing


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry adheres to its timber procurement philosophy and policy with the conviction that it should
procure the timber it uses to build houses from forests that are managed according to sustainable methods.



                                                         64                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                social report > together with our customers


   results

sumitomo forestry's certified timber management system and its
application
sumitomo forestry classifies and manages timber as certified and
non-certified in all stages from distribution and processing through house
construction, in recognition of which it has obtained chain of custody (coc)2
certification of sgec1.
this enables the company to display the sgec logo on its applicable
products and promote environmentally sound materials. all of the company’s
engineered standard studs used in sumitomo forestry houses in hokkaido
are labeled to indicate that they are made of japanese larch grown in
hokkaido.

japanese timber used in about 70% of principal structural                                                              sgec-certified timber used in
members in housing                                                                                                                    housing

sumitomo forestry promotes the use of japanese timber in housing, and in
fiscal 2008 increased the proportion of japanese timber to 70% of the principal structural members. since that
time, this target has been continuously achieved and is helping to revitalize japan’s forests (applicable
structures are those in which the main multi-balance construction method is employed). sumitomo forestry
also builds houses that use japanese timber for 100% of the principal structural members, limited to certain
product models and regions.

  internal link: “using japanese timber in homes (p.199)

confirming the legality of the timber being used
the company confirms the legality of all the timber it uses for home construction, whether japanese timber or
imported timber.

  internal link: green procurement guidelines and timber procurement standards (p.82)
  internal link: preventing the handling of illegally logged timber (p.146)


   future plans

initiatives are being implemented under the action plan stipulated by the timber procurement philosophy and
policy.

  internal link: “action plan for timber procurement” (p.20)

1 the sustainable green ecosystem council is japan's own forestry certification system, in which third parties verify sustainable forest management.
   certification is based on seven standards that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources.
2 a system for third-party organizations to certify that separation and labeling is being carried out appropriately by operators during storage, processing, and
   distribution of timber from certified forests.




                                                                              65                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   social report > together with our customers



  multi-unit residential building initiativ es


   policy & plans

in its rental properties business, sumitomo forestry supplies wooden rental housing under the forest maison
brand name, built with the company’s original two-by-four and big-frame construction methods. by building
structures with excellent seismic resistance and durability while also taking into consideration the surrounding
environment and addressing various other requirements, sumitomo forestry provides homes in which people
can live for a long time with peace of mind.


   results

launch of forest plus rental homes that make full use of the land
in july 2011, the company launched forest plus rental homes that are designed to be considerate to their
surrounding environment. it can flexibly provide forest plus proposals tailored to the site conditions, such as
the land formation and local road network, while also addressing the legislative environment including
regulations on the plot ratio and the degree of slant. a feature of these homes is that they address a wide
range of customer needs, from the freedom to decide the home layout to the option to add to the equipment
specifications, through to the ability to create life plans, such as for asset utilization and tax strategies.

  link to the news release: launch of forest plus (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110708.pdf)




     i wanted to know about the interchanges between house kohoku tsunashima and minamiboso
     city in more concrete detail. (other stakeholder)



  long-term support system


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry has established a long-term support system in order to help its customers live
comfortably in their houses for as long as possible. this system provides maintenance support for 60 years
after a house is handed over to its owner.

long-term support system
  the expected service life of principal structural members is at least 75 years
  the service life for each material is determined and houses are designed to facilitate inspection, repair and
  replacement
  regular inspections are carried out over 60 years
  maintenance programs including renovations are proposed and maintenance records kept
  proposals from the design stage are offered to allow for future changes in the life stages of the occupants
  branch customer support centers are set up for customer consultations after construction
  toll-free call center for dedicated maintenance support: available 24 hours/day, 365 days/year

the long-term support system offers a standard 10-year warranty, which can be extended up to 20 or 30
years on the structural frame and waterproofing, as long as fee-based maintenance work judged necessary by
the company, such as anti-pest treatment in the 10th year, is performed.
                                                         66                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               social report > together with our customers


  results

launch of repair savings and dedicated renovation loan schemes
in february 2011, sumitomo forestry launched repair savings and renovation loan schemes to support the
maintenance work required to maintain the functionality of sumitomo forestry home houses. the objective is
to maintain the functionality of sumitomo forestry home houses to ensure that they remain safe, secure and
comfortable, by encouraging regular maintenance work.

  link to the news release: “new loan and savings services for renovation and repair of sumitomo
  forestry home houses” (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110120.pdf)




     the information about the long-term support system, the renovation of traditional
     japanese-style houses and renovation system for improving earthquake resistance was easy to
     understand even for ordinary people. (other stakeholder)
     it’s great that support is available for many decades after a house has been built. (company
     employee)



 dev eloping earthquake-resistant renov ation technologies


  policy & plans

about 40% of existing detached wooden houses are considered to be insufficiently earthquake resistant, and
therefore require seismic upgrading to ensure security for their occupants. sumitomo forestry home tech co.,
ltd. is developing earthquake-resistant renovation technologies that alleviate the burden for customers while
making the most of existing houses.


  results

development of a shear wall that can be positioned at low cost in a traditional shinkabe wall
in a japanese-style room
the company has developed a new construction method that can easily convert a traditional japanese
shinkabe wall into a shear wall. the method entails positioning a rigid-joint beam shear between the pillars
without having to remove the nageshi beams or ceiling.
the beam incorporates the company’s original t-shaped rigid metal fittings to strengthen the supporting walls.
in comparison to the conventional construction method, which requires removing the nageshi beams and
ceiling to construct the shear wall, this method reduces the extent of the construction required and its costs.

the company has applied for a technological evaluation by the japan building disaster prevention
association (dpa -47) and is awaiting patent approval

patents obtained for earthquake-resistant renovation technology
sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. has developed a number of technologies that propose renovation by
utilizing technology and design capabilities to enhance the structural safety of wooden houses, and five
patents have now been obtained together with sumitomo forestry’s tsukuba research institute.




                                                       67                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 social report > together with our customers



  patent no. 04417743 for portal frame shear walls
  patent no. 4616776 for glass block shear walls
  patent no. 04033354 and others for the sumirin arc construction method
  patent no. 04401808 for composite adhesive beams
  patent no. 04202829 for steel-framed composite beams

introducing some examples of how traditional construction methods have been utilized to
improve existing homes
in april 2011, the tv program hyakunen meika (100-year-old-historical-homes), introduced some case
studies of sumitomo forestry home tech’s renovations of traditional homes. then in september 2011,
renovations bringing wisdom from the past to tomorrow: rehabilitation of traditional japanese houses to
meet the needs of the people who live in them was released to bookstores nationwide, which is the third in
its series of books introducing examples of the group’s renovation of traditional homes. these examples
highlight how the group is renovating traditional homes to improve their anti seitmic and energy conservation
while leaving untouched their unique historical features, thereby communicating to the world the appeal of
japan’s existing stock of traditional homes.


   future plans

sumitomo forestry’s tsukuba research institute and sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. will continue to
research and validate renovation technologies in order to realize comfortable homes, including the seismic
retrofitting of traditional structures, establishment of simple seismic reinforcement, weathering of traditional
homes, energy-saving renovation, and sound renovation.




     i’d like to see an era in which 100-year-old homes are the norm. i hope renovation technologies
     will develop so that this can be achieved. (customer)




                                                        68                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                social report > together with our customers




  putting customers first


sumitomo forestry’ action guideline is “putting customers first.” the core of the company’s business is
providing high-quality housing and services. its objective is to meet all of our customers' expectations over
their house's lifetime, from design to maintenance, and to ensure that all our customers are always completely
satisfied.



  responding to comments and requests for consultation


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry places strong emphasis on its after-sales support after a house has been handed over to
its new owners in order to ensure that its customers are secure and comfortable in their homes.


   results

enhancing our 24-hour, 365-day support service
the company accepts requests for consultation after delivery and for repairs and maintenance. the customer
support system is comprised of customer centers, for customer support within branches nationwide, and the
sumitomo forestry call center, which is a 24-hour 365-day toll-free call center dedicated to accepting
requests for repairs and maintenance from customers throughout the country. the company has clarified these
centers’ separate roles and communicated them as widely as possible to customers. the toll-free call center
for repair and maintenance enquiries has been accepting requests for consultations since july 2010. the
number of consultations it has provided has dramatically increased as a result of the company's proactive
efforts to publicize this service through a range of media, including distributing direct mail and cards and using
a dedicated website for sumitomo forestry homeowners and its home and lifestyle magazine. customer
centers in different areas are even responding to enquiries from customers in disaster-hit regions following the
great east japan earthquake.




                                                        69                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                             social report > together with our customers


number of call center consultations




regular survey implementation
to accurately assess its customers' views, sumitomo forestry administers surveys at the time owners move
in, and in their second and tenth years of occupancy. the survey includes comprehensive questions on home
design, building materials, equipment and fixtures, sumitomo forestry staff attitudes and responses, and other
issues. the company statistically processes and analyses these results to make improvements in the future.
moreover, the customer is given a postcard questionnaire at the end of each after-sales maintenance visit or
inspection requesting feedback on subjects such as the maintenance contractors' attitude and behavior,
response speed, and repair techniques.

responding to a wide range of home and home lifestyle requests through the ow ners
support group
sumitomo forestry has established the owners support group in locations around japan to provide sumitomo
forestry home owners with after-sales support and consultations on house renovating, rebuilding and
replacement. with this addition, it is able to respond to a wide range of requests on homes and home
lifestyles.



  initiativ es to increase customer satisfaction


   policy & plans

to further promote its putting-customer-first policy, sumitomo forestry has established a framework to achieve
even higher levels of customer satisfaction.




                                                      70                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               social report > together with our customers


  results

creating an intranet for all employees
sumitomo forestry has established an intranet, customer
satisfaction pavilion, through which all its employees can share
opinions from customers and also their own views. it also uses the
intranet to share information that can help improve employee skills
including collecting stories on employee experiences and
recognizing employees who have gone out of their way to provide
outstanding customer service.
                                                                             the customer satisfaction pavilion
satisfaction no.1 working group activities                                                  intranet
the satisfaction no.1 working group within sumitomo forestry
works to achieve its objectives of reducing the number of dissatisfied customers and improving the company’s
ability to satisfy customers. comprised of members of the customer service department and the housing
division, since its establishment, it has met once a month and also formed smaller working groups as needed,
formulating various themes and working to make improvements. in fiscal 2011, in order to further improve
customer satisfaction, we began distributing to employees customer satisfaction news – building homes that
inspire emotion, which introduces case studies of proposals that resulted in satisfied customers.



 measures to restore housing in the disaster region


the sumitomo forestry group opened three centers to support the restoration of its customers’ homes, in
sendai, miyagi prefecture, and fukushima, fukushima prefecture, from april 2011 and in mito, ibaraki
prefecture, from august. among the first tasks each center carried out were confirming whether or not the
customer was safe and the damage to their homes, deciding on the level of danger, and then making
arrangements for repair work. in many cases, it was the roof of the home that was damaged and the sheer
volume of repairs required could not be dealt with solely by local roofing repair shops. the company therefore
recruited a large number of workers with the necessary skills from both sumitomo forestry group companies
and its cooperating companies throughout japan and dispatched them to the disaster region, and with their
help it was able to press ahead with the repairs.
going forward, sumitomo forestry group will continue to focus its energies into the recovery, such as through
following up with customers who requested repairs.

opening recovery support centers in tw o locations: ishinomaki city and rifu tow n (rikuzen
hamada)
in november 2011, sumitomo forestry opened recovery support centers in ishinomaki city and rifu town
(rikuzen hamada) to function as consultation sites for its new homes business and renovations business. the
support centers form part of its framework for providing safe and secure housing in the disaster region. in
addition to consultations on the homes themselves, staff at the support centers provide advice on a wide
variety of other topics, such as how to acquire disaster victim certification and how to receive earthquake-
related financing and public donations. in this way, the services of the group these are being utilized on a
much broader scale than in the past.




                                                       71                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 social report > together with our customers



 keeping customers informed


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry continuously provides customers with useful information from the moment they start
considering a new home to the time it is handed over to them and after. this is part of the company's
commitment to maintaining close communication with its customers and supporting their lifestyles.


   results

offering emergency supplies at the on-line store in the
club forest, a special website for ow ners of sumitomo
forestry home houses
on the club forest, a special website for owners of sumitomo
forestry home houses, the company is aiming to substantially
increase the scope of its online sales and add to the lineup of
products available. against the backdrop of customers’ greater
awareness of the need for disaster prevention and response                                  「clubforest」
measures, in 2011 it expanded its lineup of online products to
emergency supplies and foodstuffs. the company also created a framework to securely deliver the products
and also to offer the interiors lineup of products sold by dinos in its online catalogue. the site currently has
around 45,000 members and it is aiming to support their eco activities with the newly added
“eco-encyclopedia” content, which introduces eco-related ideas and feedback from customers.

suteki-na kazoku home and lifestyle magazine
suteki-na kazoku (lovely family) , which is sent out to homeowners twice per year, features a variety of
lifestyle-related information as well as details about group company activities, such as remodelling and
utilization of land. the print runs for each issue were about 240,000 in fiscal 2011.


   future plans

the company plans to enhance the functions of its online store in club forest, the special website for owners
of sumitomo forestry home houses, so visitors can post information and views more easily and so enhance
the websites role as a venue for home-owners to exchange information.

housing-related business for those stationed overseas
the company launched this service in 2008 to enable even those working overseas to have a one-stop
service to meet their japanese housing needs. the service incorporates such areas as custom-built detached
housing, spec homes, renovations, land brokerage, rental brokerage, and monthly apartment homes. in 2011, it
launched a new service, a home web bulletin board for when you return to japan, for those stationed
overseas who frequently have home-related difficulties on returning to japan. through this service, they can
experience a sumitomo forestry home even when overseas. while observing the layout of rooms on their
computer screens, they can virtually experience over the internet a tour around the home, which is useful for
them when considering home building proposals.




                                                        72                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                social report > together with our customers



using tablet to view images of a completed ordered home w hile still at the planning stage
in january 2012, the company became the first in its industry to launch an application for exclusive use on
android os tablet devices. using this application’s various functions, customers can observe on a tablet a
completed image of their yet-to-be-constructed home, search for plans, and simulate a financing plan. tablets
have been distributed to group sites throughout japan, which is helping sumitomo forestry provide its
customers with home proposals that are both easy to understand and fun.


   future plans

in the future, we plan to add contents that reflect the wishes of customers, such as adding a function to enable
them to virtually experience testing that replicates being in a home during a large-scale earthquake and other
types of testing.



 standards for adv ertising


sumitomo forestry strives not to convey uncertain or misleading information. it thoroughly checks its
advertising before it is published to ensure strict compliance with relevant legislation, including the japanese
building lots and buildings transaction business law, act against unjustifiable premiums and misleading
representations, and copyright act. as in past years, there were no material violations in advertising in fiscal
2011.




                                                       73                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     social report > together with our customers




  property dev elopment in harmony with regional areas and the env ironment


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is committed to property development that provides attractive communities where families
can raise children healthily. the company also devises building site plans that encourage communication
between residents so that people of all ages can live together in enjoyment and comfort. when sumitomo
forestry plans a new property development, it surveys the scenery and history of each area and creates
properties in tune with the surroundings. moreover, it incorporates with properties elements to deepen the
affection residents feel for the place in which they live, such as by actively using locally produced timber.


   results

the first ever customer appreciation event at the forest
garden keio horinouchi (hachioji city, tokyo)
in view of the increasing number of new tenants in this complex and
the growing sense of community, the company planned this event to
encourage further interaction among the residents. on the day, it
held a seasonal festivity event and a barbeque lunch, which were
attended by about 100 people. going forward, the company intends
to continue holding events that help foster a spirit of community,
                                                                                    forest garden keio horinouchi
such as consultation meetings on home maintenance and events
held in collaboration with the police or fire services regarding
accident/fire prevention and traffic safety. sumitomo forestry will continue working to improve the local
environment in a way that strengthens the bonds between people.

  internal link: “using japanese timber in homes” (p.199)

property development initiatives

forest garden kamishidami in aichi       colors were selected for external walls that would fit in well with the adjacent
prefecture                               land and buildings environment and integrate with the street.

                                         the ryouonbou design concept was used, incorporating the natural forces of
forest garden toyosatodai in tochigi
                                         the sun, wind and greenery into the design; for example, the landmark trees
prefecture
                                         and garden zone situated to provide relief from the summer heat.




                                                         74                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 social report > together with our customers


   future plans

the company is currently constructing palm springs (inzai city, chiba prefecture) and palm hills (isogo
ward, yokohama city), as well as forest garden wakabadai (inagi city). in order to create residential areas
that blend into their surroundings, the company is developing these properties with underground electricity
cables and without utility poles.
the concept behind creating a development without utility poles is to increase the asset value of the
sub-divided land as a whole and to create attractive and safe neighborhoods that offer excellent views of the
surrounding area.




     as a property development initiative, i felt that i wanted to visit forest garden keio horinouchi,
     where you are aiming to realize a safe and aesthetically pleasing environment by actively using
     regionally sourced timber, and by laying electricity cables underground, thereby eliminating the
     need for utility poles. (customer)
     sumitomo forestry should utilize green-scaping technology widely, for example in its community
     development. (business partner)



  property dev elopment compatible with an aging society


   policy & plans

japan is at the dawn of an aging society and sumitomo forestry is advancing into this care field to provide
elders with facilities where they can enjoy life every day.


   results

completing granda tamagawa ota, the first
w ood-construction, fire-resistant, three-story private-pay
elderly care facility in tokyo’s 23 wards
elderly care facilities were selected by the ministry of land,
infrastructure and transport for inclusion in its fiscal 2009 project,
the first project to promote the establishment of towns with
wooden houses. as part of the project, the company was
contracted by marushuku ltd. to design and construct a facility,                     granda tamagawa ota
which would ultimately be managed by benesse style care co.,
ltd., which manages many excellent elderly care facilities throughout the country.
on its completion in april 2011, this facility became the first property for which the mocca (wood use
integration) department had been responsible for the design and construction. while achieving high levels of
fire resistance within the facility to protect the residents, mocca has created a building that achieves an
abundant feeling of wood by developing and using a new wooden material that utilizes japanese timber in an
environmentally sound manner, both on the interior and exterior of the building.

operating private-pay elderly care facilities
fill care co., ltd., a group company, works under its motto of care with a human touch. it now operates a
total of 10 private-pay elderly care facilities nationwide (three facilities in tokyo, five in kanagawa prefecture,
one in shizuoka prefecture, and one in hyogo prefecture).
                                                         75                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                social report > together with our customers




       i read you built a wooden elderly care facility. as i believe that the demand for facility for elderly
       people would increase, i would like you to build comfortable and anti-sesmic facilities where
       elderly people can feel at home (customer)




  participation in pfi operations


the sumitomo forestry group was at the forefront of pfi1 operations in the construction, maintenance, and
management of the nagoya port authority administration building and the nagoya harbor hall building in aichi
prefecture, with construction completed in september 2010.
next, in february 2012, the convenience store and plaza were completed on the site of the former hall building.
in consideration of the global environment, the company has aimed to save energy by installing rooftop solar
panels and led lights for illuminating the store and the plaza at night.

1 private finance initiative: a method of cutting costs of public works by using private-sector for the construction and management of and fund raising for
   public facilities, including roads, bridge, public-office buildings, and prisons.


    future plans

in a part of the former harbor hall building lot, a spec condminium will be completed within fiscal 2012, and a
complex building comprising a private-pay elderly facility and rental apartments will be completed in fiscal 2013.
the company will continue to play a central role in contributing to the improvement of harbor administration
services and the revitalization of the local community.



  ov erseas property dev elopment initiativ es


    company’s design used for a spec home dev elopment in china

china’s shanghai industrial investment corporation is pressing
ahead with a detached spec-home development plan in zhujiajiao,
qingpu district, shanghai city, and of the project’s total of 90
buildings, construction is underway for 60. sumitomo forestry
landscaping co., ltd. has participated in the design of this project
since the master plan stage, with the goal of designing an
environmentally symbiotic community where the natural and
manmade landscapes are in harmony.
the overall design theme incorporates the company’s design, which makes full use of the unique qualities of
wood, a renewable resource.


    expanding a residential lot business in australia

in collaboration with the australian subsidiary of ntt urban development co., the company established a
residential lot development company and acquired 47.57 hectares of residential lot land in the suburbs of
melbourne, with the plan being to sell 367 lots from 2012 to 2016. the land is located approximately 45
kilometers south east of the center of melbourne in the casey cardinia area, which in the medium-to-long term
is considered to be a promising area to capture potential housing demand.

   internal link: providing environmental housing in australia (p.179)
                                                                                   76                                 sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                             social report > together with our customers


  launching new brands in the united states

in the outskirts of seattle (washington state) in the united states, the company has started sales of spec
homes that feature a new type of design by a designer from the henley group of australia, which is a member
of the sumitomo forestry group. compared to conventional north american homes designed in the traditional
way, these homes have larger windows to create a sense of openness, an outdoor room, and various other
novel features not seen before in the northwestern united states.




                                                     77                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                               social report > together with our customers




  participation in the jti project


    policy & plans

to create rich and varied living environments, sumitomo forestry recognizes the importance of raising the
value of housing assets and improving the overall quality of society's housing stock to facilitating the purchase
of secondhand housing.


    results

since 2006, sumitomo forestry has been a supporting corporate participant in the japan trans-housing
institute(jti)1. by participating in this program, sumitomo forestry is enhancing its after-sales support and
advisory capabilities for homes and lifestyle, developing derivative businesses such as home renovation, and
collecting information on diversifying lifestyles and homes.

1 a non-profit, general incorporated association supported by state funding. it administers the public-sector support system for the rental housing market
   introduced in fiscal 2006. this program provides guaranteed agreements to rent and transplant homes belonging to people whose children have grown up,
   guaranteeing rent even when a home is empty, and subletting those homes to families with young children.




       the impression i am left with is that today, we need to think seriously about the issue of the
       mobility of the working population and the provision of housing. (customer)



  prov iding homes to international students studying in japan


    policy & plans

according to the international students in japan 2010 report published by the japan student services
organization (jasso), the number of international students in japan has increased to about 140,000. of
these, approximately 60% are chinese students and their numbers are increasing every year. since 2008,
sumitomo forestry residential co., ltd. has been managing halls of residence that enable international
students to enjoy safe and comfortable lifestyles in japan. they are providing supports for students who are
studying in japan with different languages and cultures.


    results

the company has expanded its services to facilities in tokyo, saitama, kanagawa, osaka, fukuoka, and
oita, and currently, students from china and eight other countries and regions use this service.




                                                                             78                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                             social report > together with our customers



 prov iding a combined pre-owned home purchasing and renov ation serv ice


responding to the recent increase in demand for a service for both the purchase and renovation of pre-owned
homes, the company has developed a one-stop service by strengthening the collaboration between sumitomo
forestry home service co., ltd., which is responsible for brokering real estate sales and purchases, and
sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd., which undertakes the group’s remodeling and renovation business.
in fiscal 2011, it completed renovation construction on 37 properties.



 launch of the deliv ery plan for condominium renov ation


in 2011, sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. launched its new delivery plan service. the applicant
provides only information on the address of the condominium and the nature of the renovation they want, and
sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. creates a plan without the need for an on-site survey and delivers it
to the applicant free of charge. in the planning process, it uses materials such as the blueprint created at the
point of sales in order to quickly provide the customer with a proposal.



 launch of reforest fire insurance, prov iding home owners with peace of mind


sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. has started accepting applications for its all-risk1 type reforest fire
insurance product, with mitsui sumitomo insurance as the underwriting insurance company. this is the first
such product in the renovation industry and its premiums are about 10% lower than usual2. if the customer
pays for the renovation using a loan from the financial institution with which the company has a business
partnership, they will then be eligible for a discount as part of group-loan agreement3.

1 in addition to payments for the incidents conventionally covered by insurance, such as fire, lightning, explosions, wind damage, hail and snow damage,
   indemnity payments are also made for incidents not conventionally covered, including water leaks, theft, water damage, breakages, and spoilage
2 according to a survey by the company and mitsui sumitomo marine and fire insurance
3 the mortgage corporation of japan and jaccs co. ltd.




                                                                           79                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                          social report > together with our business partners




 quality control for timber and building materials


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry group companies manufacturing wood building materials both within and outside of japan
carry out programs to ensure that their timber and building materials are of the highest quality.


   results

all sumitomo forestry crest plants have acquired iso9001 certification and reflect customer
opinions
all six plants in japan operated by sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. are integrated with iso9001.
they maintain systems for improving quality based on the company president's quality policy and manufacture
high quality products while using a strict system of process controls.
also, they use a quality information management system and work to quickly reflect customer opinions and
complaints back to each plant.

acquiring public certification at the plants of group companies outside of japan
sumitomo forestry group promotes the acquisition of certification that guarantees timber quality, such as jis,
jas, and iso, and is constructing systems to provide high-quality products that customers can use with
confidence.




                                                        80                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                       social report > together with our business partners



acquisition of quality-related certification

                   group company                                         country                     type of certification                date acquired

 sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.                              japan                            iso9001                                 march 19991

 sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd                                                                                                  september
                                                                japan                            iso9001
 environmental greenification division                                                                                                   2002

 sumitomo forestry home engineering co.,                                                         iso9001
                                                                japan                                                                    march 2006
 ltd.                                                                                            jisq9001

                                                                                                                                         september
 alpine mdf industries pty ltd.                                                                  new jis certification
                                                                australia                                                                2008
 (alpine mdf)
                                                                                                 carb certification2                     january 2009

                                                                                                 jis certification for
                                                                                                                                         march 2003
                                                                                                 fiberboard

                                                                                                 new jis certification                   may 2008
 nelson pine industries ltd. (npil)                             new zealand
                                                                                                 carb certification                      october 2008

                                                                                                                                         september
                                                                                                 iso9001
                                                                                                                                         2011

 pt. kutai timber indonesia (kti)                               indonesia                        carb certification                      november 2009

                                                                                                 jis certification                       march 2007
 pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi)                             indonesia
                                                                                                 carb certification                      february 2009

 pt. sinar rimba pasifik (srp)                                  indonesia                        jas                                     march 2012

 pt. ast indonesia (ast)                                        indonesia                        iso9001                                 october 2002

                                                                                                 plywood for general use
                                                                                                                                         july 2010
                                                                                                 jas

                                                                                                 carb certification                      august 2010
 fuxin sumirin wood products co., ltd.                          china
                                                                                                                                         december
                                                                                                 lvl certification
                                                                                                                                         2010

                                                                                                 minister-level certification            february 2012


1 acquired first by the kyushu plant in march 1999 and all other plants subsequently. all plants had acquired integrated certification by 2010.
2 air pollution regulations in north america.



   future plans

in fiscal 2012, sumitomo forestry crest carried out quality-improvement initiatives in each of its production
divisions to reduce by 25% the number of complaints compared to the previous year. in addition, all plants are
developing their iso9001 certification into a company-wide quality management system.




                                                                             81                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                          social report > together with our business partners




sumitomo forestry considers that preventing environmental pollution, reducing environmental impact, and
developing a recycling-orientated economic society in its housing business and timber and building materials
business is crucial to sustaining its company management.
based on cooperation with its business partners, it is procuring sustainable raw materials through its supply
chain.

   green procurement guidelines and timber procurement standards


 sumitomo forestry strives to prevent environmental pollution, reduce environmental impact, and develop a
 recycling-oriented economic society, with a commitment to its environmental philosophy of “contributing to
 society through the vigorous pursuit of business operations in harmony with conservation principles.” in line
 with these principles, the company gives preference in its purchases of goods and services to business
 partners that have established their own green procurement guidelines and timber procurement standards, and
 that work to reduce their environmental impact. in june 2007, the company finalized and announced its timber
 procurement philosophy and policy, formulated to help the company verify the legal compliance of the timber it
 handles and improve traceability.
 as defined in these standards, sumitomo forestry will continue to strengthen the system for verifying its
 business partners in terms of their compliance with legislation and with environmental and social standards,
 based on a “company evaluation,” of their environmental preservation initiatives, and a “product evaluation”
 based on evaluation standards for each product.


     green procurement guidelines (summary)

         1. reduction of the use of substances or emissions that affect the environment or human
            health
         2. reduced consumption of energy resources
         3. use of materials from forests managed in a legal and sustainable manner
         4. usability over the long term
         5. suitability for recycling
         6. use of recyclable materials and reusable components
         7. ease of proper treatment or disposal at end of life cycle




                                                          82                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                     social report > together with our business partners




timber procurement philosophy

timber is a renewable, natural resource. sumitomo forestry considers forest ecosystems and
the blessings from nature provided by forests to be precious assets shared by all of humanity,
and in order to realize a sustainable society in which people and forests can live in harmony, it
cooperates with its business partners to procure timber that is considerate to the environment
and to society.




timber procurement policy

1. to procure legal and sustainable wood
    ・ observe all relevant laws and regulations and maintain a system for confirming that the
      timber is legal

    ・ procure timber from forests that are managed to be sustainable

    ・ while promoting the use of plantation timber, carry out plantation activities that contribute
      to the maintenance of forest resources

2. to build a highly reliable supplychain
    ・ cooperate with business partners and work to improve the reliability of traceability
      measures

    ・ confirm with business partners that high conservation value forests are being managed
      appropriately

    ・ appropriately disclose information to ensure procurement transparency

    ・ maintain dialogues with business partners to ensure that human rights and the fundamental
      rights of workers are being protected and to prevent corruption

3. to reduce the environmental burden and effectively use timber resources during
    their lifecycle
    ・ to contribute to land conservation and the revitalization of the forestry industry by actively
      using domestic timber

    ・ utilize thinnings and wood waste, reuse and recycle wood, and develop the technologies
      to facilitate these actions

    ・ reduce the environmental impact of procurement, such as by increasing distribution
      efficiency

4. together with our stakeholders
    ・ carry out continuous reforms in cooperation with stakeholders

    ・ respect biodiversity and the culture, traditions, and economies of regions that live in
      harmony with forests

    ・ communicate to stakeholders the importance of timber procurement that is considerate to
      the environment and society




                                                   83                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                            social report > together with our business partners


   results

ensuring traceability of timber                 sources of imported timber and wood products
                                                (based on figures provided to the japan lumber importers’ association)
sumitomo forestry procures timber and
timber products from around the world.
during the three years from 2007 to
2009, the company conducted
investigations of all of its overseas
suppliers of directly imported timber
based on its timber procurement
standards. the results confirmed that all
of these suppliers of timber and timber
products were in compliance.
since fiscal 2010, in line with the new
action plan based on timber
procurement philosophy and policy, the company has continued to conduct a study of all its suppliers,
including new suppliers, into their methods of confirming legal compliance) to ensure that 100% of the directly
imported timber and timber products handled by the group is legally compliant.
in addition, in fiscal 2011, the company confirmed the legality not only of its directly imported timber, but also
japanese domestic timber sold to the market and japanese domestic and imported timber used for properties
constructed by the housing division.
from fiscal 2012, it conducts a csr survey at all overseas business partners on issues such as human rights
and labor practices. also from fiscal 2012, following requests from paper companies the company will launch
an independent initiative to ensure the legality of the wood chip it handles domestically. in addition to japanese
domestic timber, these chips include industrial waste and non-japanese timber as their raw material.

  internal link: “action plan for timber procurement” (p.20)

evaluation of supplier in housing business
to optimize and enhance the stability of our materials procurement system, the housing division operates its
own supplier evaluation standards in addition to the group’s overall procurement standards. the housing
division evaluated its main suppliers based on 16 assessment items including “management,” “cost,”
“transportation,” “quality,” and “environment”, making a 5-tier evaluation after visiting the suppliers’ plants.
feedback was then provided to the suppliers for the future improvement of their operations. in fiscal 2011, the
evaluation method was revised so as to be more useful for suppliers in implementing specific improvements.




     the realities of deforestation overseas are not well recognized and i have seen several reports
     documenting a worsening situation. it is a relief to know that a major company in japan is taking
     such an environmental approach. (customer)




                                                         84                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                         social report > together with our business partners




 improv ing quality and w orkplace safety at new housing construction sites


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry runs a membership organization, the association of sumitomo forestry safe building
contractors, in order to maintain and develop sound relationships of trust and cooperation with its partner
building contractors. this organization shares information among members toward improving safety at work
sites, levels of workmanship, and construction management. it also investigates any work-related problems
and awards commendations to contractors and carpenters who demonstrate excellence in their work. based
on sumitomo forestry’s own health and safety management guidelines and with the cooperation of building
contractors, the company is working to eliminate work-related accidents, including construction site accidents
caused by falls and slipping, heavy machinery, or power tools.


  results

developing targets and action plans for three priority areas
the company set forth the basic principle of prevention of industrial accidents through comprehensive
implementation of risk assessment and three priority areas were selected, with consideration given to the
previous years’ industrial accidents, status of industry safety and health promotion initiatives, and compliance
with related laws and ordinances. targets and action plans for each division and department have been
developed. the three priority areas are:

(1) strict legal compliance
(2) prevention of industrial accidents
(3) comprehensive self-management

strengthening direction and education in workplaces
the environment & safety division of the housing division participated in the monthly safety patrols and
workplace health and safety meetings held at each branch, continuously strengthening its role in providing
direction and education for all aspects of health and safety management.

holding monthly meetings to improve safety and quality
meetings are held each month to promote greater safety and higher quality at every branch member and local
chapter of the association of sumitomo forestry safe building contractors.




                                                       85                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           social report > together with our business partners


work-related accidents at building contractor locations




   future plans

the company will provide direction and ensure consistent standards, which will contribute to a reduction in
industrial accidents. also, it will work to improve safety and health and quality by continuously holding training
sessions at each branch.



  w orkplace safety and health risk management at subdiv ision dev elopments


to prevent accidents at construction sites during the development and construction of subdivision properties,
the company has been identifying the risk associated with specific incidents, such as a falling crane, a worker
falling, or an accident involving power tools. work is carried out in line with a risk procedures manual created
following this assessment.



  safety and health in forestry


at all of sumitomo forestry group's forestry offices, both subcontractors and sumitomo forestry group
employees attend a twice-yearly safety conference, where they receive safety and health related guidance
and training. the training mainly focuses on workplace safety and health, environmental education, and
emergency first aid, etc.




                                                          86                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                           social report > together with our business partners




 communication with our timber and building materials business partners

  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry’s operations are focused in the regions and so it works to communicate with timber
suppliers and purchasers in these areas.

  results


     department                     name / scale                                                  description

                                                                         sumitomo forestry sponsors the sumirin-kai, an
                                                                         organization that serves as a forum for communication with
                                                                         regional suppliers of timber and building materials. training
                                                                         sessions and information exchange meetings are held,
                      the sumirin-kai
                                                                         allowing members to deepen mutual friendships, promote
                      ・ 837 people nationwide (as of
                                                                         product r&d, enhance production and distribution, and
                        february 2012)
                                                                         support improvements in the industry as a whole. the
                                                                         training sessions are held in each region two or three times
                                                                         a year and email newsletters are sent to registered
                                                                         members.

                      precut forum 21
                                                                         established with the goals of improving quality and
                      ・ nationwide network of precut1
                                                                         productivity and developing the businesses of all member
                        businesses industry organization
                                                                         companies. as the managing company, the company is
                      ・ established in 1997
                                                                         involved with operation and training, organizes visits to
                      1 a construction-production system in
timber & building        which timber undergoes high precision           other companies in the sector to improve quality levels
materials division       processing before being transported to          among member companies, cooperates on the
                         the work site, employing the latest
                                                                         development of high quality pfwood, and holds training
                         cad/cam technologies to replace the
                         carpentry techniques from the past, and         sessions on applying for excellent long-term housing
                         selecting wood that is resistant to             status, as well as seminars on business opportunities
                         external force through structural design        utilizing japanese timber.
                         verification.

                                                                         in order to provide reliable and safe housing for its
                                                                         customers, sumitomo forestry established the inos
                                                                         group to share its extensive expertise developed over
                      inos group                                         many years, including in computerized structural
                      ・ 252 companies nationwide (as                     calculations and estimates, and to implement its warrantee
                        of march 2012)                                   system.
                      ・ established 1994                                 a general meeting is held once a year to further
                                                                         communication between members and share objectives.
                                                                         during fiscal 2011, the inos group constructed 577
                                                                         houses.

                                                                    87                                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   social report > together with our business partners



     department                   name / scale                                            description

                                                                 for suppliers and purchasers of timber and building
                                                                 materials, this is a distinctive informational magazine with a
                       publication of building materials         history spanning nearly half a century. it aims to “inspire
                       monthly                                   everyone involved in the timber and building materials
                        ・ monthly print run of                   industry” through the timely publishing of related news and
                          approximately 5,000 copies             topics.
                        ・ launched in 1964                       during 2011, it provided its readers with information on
                                                                 such topics as incentives for home acquisitions and the
                                                                 home energy revolution.

                                                                 activities and results for fiscal 2011 were as follows. april:
                                                                 board of governors meeting, september: general
                       crest association
                                                                 meeting, november: plant visit, january: new year party.
                        ・ 65 member companies (as of
                                                                 the company shares information with its key production
                          april 2011)
                                                                 partners to identify industry-wide trends and develop
                                                                 technologies to their mutual benefit.

                                                                 five plants conduct a survey of business operators and
                       conduct a customer satisfaction
                                                                 building contractors concerning issues such as product
sumitomo forestry      survey
                                                                 quality and telephone support, and solicit their evaluations,
crest co., ltd.         ・ once a year (some plants
                                                                 opinions, and wishes. this feedback is then used to
                          conduct it twice)
                                                                 improve the quality of products and services in the future.

                                                                 the niihama plant organized a briefing to give an overview
                       the 19th environmental municipal
                                                                 of the company and its environmental initiatives, as well as
                       meeting (niihama conference) and
                                                                 a plant visit, attended by the secretary general of the
                       the 5th subcommittee fieldwork
                                                                 niihama city hall environmental department, the mayor and
                        ・ 45 people participated (held in
                                                                 others from the administration of the local government of
                          may 2011)
                                                                 ikoma city nara prefecture, and other general participants.


launch of yorisoi for inos group members
in march 2012, the company launched a home with open spaces
and rooms incorporated into the building design to facilitate
communication between generations. one characteristic of the
home is that unlike the company’s communal, two-family home for
parents and their children, the generations live near to each other
but within a reasonable distance, and the home environment can be
easily adapted to address any future changes in the family
structure.



 communication with sumitomo forestry’s business partners


   policy & plans

the company’s housing-business worksites are found in every region of the country, and they rely on the
support of the many companies that the group collaborates with. the company considers communication with
these companies to be vital in order to share with them its philosophy of improving the quality of homes while
protecting the environment.


                                                            88                                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                       social report > together with our business partners


  results


      division /
                                   name / scale                                               description
     department

                                                                    to gain an accurate understanding of the issues and
                                                                    problems faced by building contractors, each year
                                                                    sumitomo forestry housing division conducts the survey
                                                                    on production systems and csr. this questionnaire was
                                                                    designed to identify weaknesses and flaws in sumitomo
                                                                    forestry's standards and plans, as well as facilitate
                        conduct the survey on production            improvements in operations, safety and technical
                        systems and csr every year                  capabilities. it was also useful in familiarizing employees of
housing division
                        ・ a response rate of 86% from all           sumitomo forestry's business partners with the concepts
                          building contractors                      underlying csr, which encompass strict legal compliance,
                                                                    environmental conservation, respect for human rights, and
                                                                    contributions to local communities.
                                                                    in october 2010, the results of the survey and the trends it
                                                                    revealed were presented to the matsu association of
                                                                    building contractors, an annual social gathering of superior
                                                                    building contractor partners.

housing division                                                    the training of the next generation of craftspeople is vital to
sumitomo forestry                                                   pass on skills and to ensure production capacity in the
                        outsourcer training from building
home engineering                                                    future. the sumitomo forestry school of professional
                        contractors
co., ltd.                                                           building techniques offers a one-year carpentry course for
                        ・ curriculum of 5 to 10 days for
sumitomo forestry                                                   people wanting to work for sumitomo forestry, as well as
                          the beginners class and
school of                                                           five- to ten-day elementary and intermediate level training
                          intermediate class
professional building                                               courses offered on behalf of building contractors. it ran two
techniques                                                          such courses in fiscal 2010.

                                                                    each year, evaluations of the housing business’s main
                        evaluation and feedback based on business partners are conducted following visits to their
housing division
                        the supplier evaluation standards           plants, and feedback is then provided so as to help them
                                                                    implement future improvements

                        timber storage and delivery                 based on the action guideline of “putting customers first,”
                        safety conference                           this event introduced complaint case studies in order to
                        ・ 90 people from 70 timber                  widely disseminate information aimed at realizing even
                          storage and delivery-related              safer timber storage and delivery operations and higher
                          companies participated (2011)             quality in the future.

                                                                    this system is for designating building contractors as being
                                                                    of a “master” level and to position them as models for
sumitomo forestry       master building constructor                 others based on their building quality, safety management,
landscaping co., ltd.   evaluation system                           customer services, maintenance of compliance, and other
                        ・ residential landscaping                   factors. there are four evaluation items; building
                          division of the 440 building              capabilities, quality inspections, financial foundations, and
                          contractors nationwide, 31 have           the csr survey, and the results for all building contractors
                          obtained this certification (as of        evaluated are announced. in addition to contributing to
                          2011)                                     improved customer satisfaction and quality levels, the goal
                                                                    of the evaluation is to help achieve the stable management
                                                                    of building contractors through priority ordering.



                                                               89                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                       social report > together with our business partners



 consideration in communities outside of japan and communication


  policy & plans

in consideration of local employment, group companies outside japan procure locally from suppliers in the
communities where they develop their businesses.


  results

overseas initiatives
canyon creek cabinet company, which manufactures and sells cabinets, frequently meets and reports to
suppliers on customer feedback and its own evaluations, enabling it to manage the procurement process in a
timely manner.
in addition, sfc homes stays in continuous communication with suppliers in order to share information on
matters including methods of product manufacturing with low environmental impact and best practices to
promote recycling.




                                                     90                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                      social report > together with our shareholders and investors




  information disclosure


   policy & plans

in the interest of greater management transparency, sumitomo forestry takes a proactive approach to
information disclosure. at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders held every june, the company
presents reports and information as clearly as possible and publishes printed and online versions of its annual
report in both english and japanese, as well as japanese reports for shareholders on business activities. it
also discloses a range of other ir information on its english and japanese websites, including financial
information such as the tanshin short financial statements, summary of financial results and forecasts, and
also information on monthly orders. (japanese website: http://sfc.jp/information/ir/ english website:
http://sfc.jp/english/ir). moreover, the company publishes notifications of its ordinary general meeting of
shareholders in both english and japanese, in these and other ways creating opportunities to communicate
with its stakeholders.

share distribution by shareholder type




   results

explaining business performance through earnings briefings and conference calls
in its efforts to continue gaining greater trust from shareholders and investors, sumitomo forestry holds
earnings briefings and individual meetings to explain its business performance following the announcement of
interim and year-end results, as well as conference calls following release of q1 and q3 results.

holding individual meetings each quarter
sumitomo forestry holds individual meetings for institutional investors following the announcement of its
quarterly results. in fiscal 2011, the company held 145 of these individual meetings both inside and outside of
japan.

hosting ir meetings for individual investors
in addition to holding individual meetings for institutional investors, in july 2010, it hosted its first meetings
specifically for individual investors in tokyo and osaka, which were attended by about 360 such investors. the
company presented both the group's financial results and its efforts to preserve and protect the environment.

                                                          91                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                    social report > together with our shareholders and investors



improving the voting environment
the company is meeting investor needs for an improved voting environment and established a platform on
which institutional investors can vote digitally, while individual investors can now vote online or via their mobile
phones.

   future plans

sumitomo forestry undertakes ir activities in an effort to better convey details of the group's operations, its
corporate stance as well as the kind of group it is striving to become. the company strives to communicate
with all investors, whether shareholders or institutional and individual investors in japan and overseas, in a fair
and appropriate manner. through its ir activities, sumitomo forestry also works diligently to secure a valid
and appropriate valuation within stock markets.



 inclusion in socially responsible inv estment indexes


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry engages in business activities that enhance its selection as a socially responsible
investment (sri) covering not only its financial performance but also its environmental responsiveness, social
activities, and ethical stance.


   results

sumitomo forestry has been a component stock of

  the dow jones sustainability indexes (asia pacific) in the home
  construction section
  awarded the silver class ranking in the sustainability yearbook
  2012
  the ftse4 good global index for eight consecutive years
  the morningstar sri index for four consecutive years




                                                        92                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                social report > together with our employees




 creating a w orkplace in which a div erse range of employees can w ork together



    basic personnel policy

    as sumitomo forestry aims to be a truly “excellent company” in housing-related businesses, it
    shall make efforts to put in place effective personnel systems, carry out appropriate and efficient
    placement of human assets and human resources development and training, and build a group of
    “strong and independent” individuals who are always willing to take up challenges, all in
    accordance with it’s corporate philosophy, which states, “respect for humanity—we work to
    create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity.”



    progress made in top priority initiatives in fiscal 2011

    in fiscal 2010, the company’s four top priority initiatives were a group-wide effort to reduce
    overtime work, promotion of diversity in its human resources, establishment of various
    personnel-related regulations, and personnel training.



employment breakdown (as of march 31, 2012)                          number of employees (as of march 31)

                                  sumitomo forestry co., ltd.                non-consolidated consolidated

management level                                             2,285   2009                 4,547             12,629

non-management level                                         2,423   2010                 4,539             13,601

contract employees                                                   2011                 4,470             13,778
                                                                17
(interior coordinators)
                                                                     2012                 4,452             14,736
contract employees
                                                               128
(non-interior coordinators)

hosted from other companies                                     22

average years of service                       13 years 6 months

average annual salary                              8,038,717 yen

ratio of disabled employees                                  1.93%




                                                      93                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  social report > together with our employees



 employee hiring, promotion, and re-employment systems


   policy & plans

excellent personnel are essential to sumitomo forestry’s ability to contribute to society through its
businesses. in hiring employees, we seek people who have the mental toughness and people-skills to push
ahead with corporate innovation in japan and abroad, have a sense of the fairness and integrity that
characterize sumitomo forestry’s corporate culture, and have an abiding respect for humanity. also, staff
responsible for recruitment are appointed to be fair employment/selection and human rights education
promoters and to completely eradicate any form of recruitment discrimination.


   results

seminars for students beginning their career search
the personnel department’s hiring team holds hands-on workshops on world-class business models for
students who have begun their search for career opportunities after graduation. these activities aim to help
young people make choices about their lives, addressing subjects such as how to select candidate companies
in the job-hunting process, methods of self-analysis, and sumitomo forestry’s own business operations.
in fiscal 2011, the company launched work experience events for different job categories in order to deepen
the interns’ understanding of housing sales, housing engineering, and general management positions.

recruiting results (number of people)

                      fy2009                   fy2010                   fy2011                    fy2012

               male female      total   male female     total     male female    total    male female       total

housing
                 98        19     117     71      16         87    56      15      71       55         15       70
sales

housing
                 22        14      36     22       7         29    16       4      20       19          6       25
engineering

general
                 27         7      34     21       9         30    20       5      25       14          6       20
management

total           147        40    187     114      32     146       92      24     116       88         27      115


re-employment of retired employees
employees who are interested in re-employment can work as contract employees (non-interior coordinator)
until age 65 on condition that he/she meets certain requirements such as working record for more than ten
years and posessing specific skills and experience. sumitomo forestry actively promotes the re-employment
of workers, re-employing 22 people in fiscal 2009, 28 in fiscal 2010, and 27 in fiscal 2011.

new return to work application system
sumitomo forestry introduced a system in fiscal 2008 that offers employees the opportunity to apply to return
to work. employees who had worked for three or more consecutive years are eligible for this program, and the
company determines whether to re-hire employees based on needs and the applicant’s skills. applicants hired
within three years of leaving are able to return to the same grade as their former position. as of april 30, 2012,
49 people are registered in the system.




                                                        94                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                 social report > together with our employees



the company's approach to the employment of non-permanent employees
in recent years, regulations for dispatched employees have been strengthened to correct disparities arising
out of different forms of employment. taking a compliance perspective, in april 2011 the company decided to
change the status of its dispatched employees to directly employed, fixed-term employees (“partner
employees”).


   future plans

sumitomo forestry seeks people with mental toughness and people-skills.



  helping employees achiev e a better w ork-life balance


   policy & plans

as a company involved in housing and lifestyles, sumitomo forestry recognizes the diversity of its employees’
work-styles and strives to provide them with work they find worthwhile. at the same time, it aims to create a
workplace where employees can enjoy fullfiling family life. toward this, it established the work & life group
within the personnel department.


   results


the various programs that support a better work-life balance and their results
      program                                         objective and description                                                      fy 2011 results

                     ・ this system encourages employees to combine their weekends with paid vacation days
                      for five consecutive days of vacation every year between january 1 and december 31, as
refresh vacation      distinct from the new year and summer vacation periods. regular employees and contract                                                   42%
                      employees who have been continuously employed by the company for at least one year
                      are eligible.

                     ・ childcare leave: childcare leave may be taken by employees for the longer of the first 18
                      months of the child’s life or until march 31st immediately following the child’s first birthday.
                     ・ shorter working hours: until the child completes the sixth grade of elementary school,
                      employees may begin or end work earlier or later, work shorter hours, or work a four-day            ・ 100% of female employees who
childcare (revised    week, and be exempted from overtime work.                                                             gave birth took childcare leave.
april 1, 2010)       ・ leave to care for child and attend special events: employees may take the equivalent of            ・ 15 male employees took childcare
                      ten days a year in one-hour increments (with full pay) to care for a sick or injured child until      leave.
                      their children have completed the sixth grade of elementary school. of these ten days, up
                      to five days may be used for attending special events with their children. employees with
                      two or more children are granted an additional five days.

                     ・ family care leave: this system allows up to 365 cumulative days of leave per family
                      member requiring care, and is available to employees and contract employees.
                     ・ shorter working hours: participants may also begin and end work earlier or later, work
family care
                      shorter hours, or work a four-day week.                                                             ・ no employees took family care
(revised april 1,
                     ・ family illness and injury: regular and contract employees may take the equivalent of ten             leave.
2010)
                      days a year (measured by the hour) to care for their family. five of the days annually may
                      be used to care for family members who are ill or injured. employees with two or more
                      family members requiring care are granted an additional five days.




                                                                             95                                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               social report > together with our employees


childcare-related programs




encouraging male employees to take childcare leave
to support male employees whose spouses have given birth to a child, surveys are taken and childcare leave
guides distributed to male employees. the company intranet is also used to publicize the status of employees
taking childcare leave, as well as stories recounting the experiences of employees who have taken childcare
leave. in these and other ways, the company is working to encourage male employees to take childcare
leave.

employees taking childcare leave (number of people)




launching the telew ork program
sumitomo forestry formally launched the telework program in fiscal 2009, in which employees may work at
home or other location remotely. the time saved by not commuting to an office is being used for both work and
family life, and working in a quiet home environment has proven to increase productivity, providing proof of the
concept for the telework program. in fiscal 2011, 12 employees are participating in the program, employees
who have needs for childcare or family care, as well as those whose commute times were especially long.
                                                       96                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     social report > together with our employees



transfers to accommodate spouse transfer
in fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry established a program that facilitates the transfer of employees to the same
destination as their spouse. this enables employees to continue working with sumitomo forestry. to date, 10
employees have participated in this program.

compliance w ith law for measures to support the development of the next generation (next
generation law )
in compliance with the next generation law of the japanese government, sumitomo forestry formulates and
implements action plans to support employees raising families. the company’s 1 st, 2nd, and 3rd action plans
each satisfied designated requirements, earning certification from the tokyo labour bureau.


   future plans

the 4th next generation law action plan (for fiscal 2011 to 2012)
the 4th action plan has two goals. the first is to create a work environment in
which employees can comfortably raise their children, spend time with their
family, and work effectively and positively. the second goal is to create a climate
that accepts both men and women balancing work with raising children.
sumitomo forestry intends to earn certification attesting to the compliance of
the 4th action plan with the next generation law.

(1) aim to achieve a work-life balance and continue to review ways of working                     the kurumin mark of
                                                                                                       certification
(2) encourage employees to take childcare leave
(3) progress administrative reforms toward the smooth use of childcare support
    programs



  promoting affirmativ e action


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is committed to a workplace environment where employees can fulfil their ambitions and
exercise their skills irrespective of gender. in particular, to encourage the success of female employees, the
company is working to expand the presence of women in all job positions and to support working while raising
children. it holds forums, each time with different participants and themes, aimed at solving work-related
problems in job categories where there are few women, and enhancing motivation.


   results


female employment ratios (as of april 1 of each fiscal year)
                                                                                            (%)

         as % of company workforce                fy07 fy08 fy09 fy10 fy11 fy12

female employees including contract employees      15.8   16.4       16.4   16.9   16.8   17.2

female employees in management positions            0.9        0.9    1.3    1.3    1.4     1.5

newly hired female university graduates            25.0   21.0       21.0   22.4   24.6   24.1




                                                          97                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  social report > together with our employees



sponsoring the 9th housing sales women job forum
in november 2011, the company sponsored the 9th housing sales women job forum, at which 20 female
employees working in housing sales and four supervisors engaged in a lively exchange of information. group
discussions were held on methods of working to carry out marketing activities even when working hours are
restricted due to such reasons as childcare and nursing responsibilities.


  future plans

the opinions given in the fiscal 2011 forum will be reflected in future measures. sumitomo forestry plans to
hold these forums on an ongoing basis to provide opportunities for enhancing motivation and problem-solving.



 promoting the employment of people with disabilities


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is promoting the employment of people with disabilities while considering possible
challenges people with disabilities working in companies encounter and the ways of working lead to increased
corporate value.

  results


ratio of disabled employees(%)

   fy08         fy09         fy10         fy11

       1.54         1.83         2.04        1.93




     the question is not how many people with disabilities the company is employing, but whether the
     people with disabilities it employs are happy in their jobs. i would like to support this kind of
     employment. (public official)




                                                         98                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                               social report > together with our employees



  initiativ es at group companies


the company conducted a survey in march 2012 in order to understand csr conditions and initiatives at
group companies both within japan and overseas.

    initiativ es to employ                               initiativ es for                                     initiativ es to employ and
    senior citizens                                      non-permanent employees                              fully utilize people with
                                                                                                              disabilities (japan)




main initiatives                                     main initiatives                                       main initiatives
   introduction of a system to                           promotion of part-time                               achieving and maintaining the
   re-employ retired employees                           employees as permanent                               legally designated employment
                                                         employees                                            rate for people with disabilities
                                                         launch of an employment                              offering opportunities for
                                                         placement dispatching program                        work-training for students with
                                                         when employing permanent                             disabilities
                                                         employees, prioritizing the
                                                         employment of current
                                                         non-permanent employees

note: as laws and regulations differ in each country, graphs marked (japan) refer only to data for japan.



    hiring locally at group companies outside of japan

the company tries to create employment when developing its businesses in group companies outside of
japan by hiring locally.

rate of local employment in group companies outside of japan (%)
                                                                                                                         (as of december 31, 2011)

                                     papua                                                          the
                                                                      new                                        south                     10 group
   country          australia          new        indonesia                         china          united                    vietnam
                                                                    zealand                                      korea                    companies
                                    guinea                                                         states

 local
 employment           100.0%           99.5%            99.9%          99.0%          95.8%          94.8%        94.1%         99.9%           99.9%
 rate


note: the principal 14 companies from within the 19 group companies outside of japan




                                                                             99                                     sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 social report > together with our employees


   support for people with disabilities in ov erseas group companies

initiatives by nelson pine industries ltd. (npil)
npil provides its employees with disabilities with special facilities that are easier for them to use. also, it has
created a rehabilitation policy for the speedy return to work of employees who are temporarily or partially
disabled due to an injury or illness. this policy includes counseling when required, special assistance, and
allowing employees to make a gradual return to work.




                                                        100                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               social report > together with our employees




 a safe and healthy w orking env ironment


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry aims to foster a workplace in which employees can perform their jobs in a safe and healthy
manner. it provides regular health checkups to all employees, whether permanent or non-permanent. this,
along with its other activities to improve workplace health and safety, demonstrates the company’s
commitment to its rules for safety and health management.


  results

appropriate control over working hours and reduction of overtime
in fiscal 2011, the company established a model branch to test measures to reduce overtime work, including
initiatives to improve operational efficiency and to automatically shut down computers 30 minutes in advance
of the previous shutdown time. going forward, while continuing to verify the results of these measures it will
investigate how to implement effective reforms horizontally across the group. in addition, from fiscal 2012
toward appropriately managing work time, the company has changed the method of calculating work hours,
which are now calculated from when the employee enters and leaves the workplace. these changes will not
only enable the company to better manage employee working hours, but also to improve its employee health
management programs.

smoking cessation program
with the growing interest in quitting smoking, the company has been implementing and strengthening its
smoking cessation programs since fiscal 2008. in fiscal 2011, it continued its no smoking anywhere during
working hours smoking cessation program and carried out the initiatives described below based on this
program. as a result, the number of employees who have successfully quit smoking has increased.

four initiatives in the smoking cessation program
1. smoking is forbidden both inside and outside workplaces, from the start to the end of working hours
    (except during breaks).
2. a space for employees to smoke during renovation or construction work is no longer provided.
3. a counseling service has been established (advice on quitting smoking at the mental health counseling
    office).
4. nicotine gum is available for employees at offices at cost.




                                                      101                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                        social report > together with our employees



mental health initiatives
sumitomo forestry has been running a mental health support program since fiscal 2006. a toll-free telephone
service called medical consultation and treatment for mind and body is also available to take calls regarding
workplace concerns, relationships with other people, general frustrations and worries, and requests for
information on medical facilities. the company displays posters and distributes cards to regular and contract
employees to ensure familiarity with the service and encourage its use. currently, nine group companies
provide this service to their employees.

regular health checkups and comprehensive examinations for 100% of employees
for the fourth consecutive year, 100%1 of sumitomo forestry’s employees in fiscal 2011 received both a
regular health checkup and a comprehensive examination, thanks to monthly progress checks by each
business establishment. in addition, since fiscal 2009 a follow-up system has been in place for all patients
requiring further examination, including consultations with the industrial doctor in each office and the delivery
and collection of forms verifying second examinations.

1 this does not include employees on long-term leave for maternity leave and illness.


specific health checkups and an online reservation system for comprehensive examinations
in addition to the regular health checkups given to all employees each year, more comprehensive examinations
are available to employees aged 35 years or more and dependents of employees. metabolic syndrome
diagnostic criteria have been included in regular health checkups and more extensive checkups for employees
aged 40 years or more who are the subject of specific health checkups. sumitomo forestry is committed to
raising the attendance rate of employee dependants as well as employees, and so has introduced an online
reservation system for comprehensive examinations and sends emails with information on the consultation,
thus increasing attendance rates.

prevention of sexual harassment and workplace bullying
in accordance with “our values and ideals” and its employment regulations, sumitomo forestry prohibits
sexual harassment and power harrasment through clearly stated rules and disciplinary standards. the
company has set up the sexual harassment and power harrasment consultation hotline and the compliance
hotline to appropriately handle inquiries and complaints. to raise awareness of the issues among employees,
the company provides information and case studies through the intranet, pamphlets, and training on human
rights and ethics.
when handling a case of harassment, the sexual harassment and power harrasment consultation hotline
promptly and appropriately verifies the facts and gathers information with the accused, the complainant, and
third parties, and then takes the necessary procedures with those concerned. the privacy of all those involved
is protected and every effort is made to ensure that neither the complainant nor those cooperating are treated
detrimentally.




       you have put restricting overtime work at the top of your list of key policies, but you do not tell us
       the results you have achieved. (customer)




                                                                           102               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                     social report > together with our employees



  initiativ es at group companies


the company conducted a survey in march 2012 in order to understand csr conditions and initiatives at
group companies within japan.

    initiativ es for w orkplace safety and                                             initiativ es for mental health
    health




                                                                                  main initiatives
main initiatives
                                                                                      checkups with an industrial doctor
   establishing the safety and health committee
                                                                                      mental health training
   providing safety training



    w orkplace safety and health at plants

sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.’s basic policy is to move “from zero accidents to zero danger.” at each
plant every month, it determines a safety and health theme and then based on this theme carries out safety
training and safety patrols within its manufacturing sites. it also conducts risk-perception activities, such as
assessing the risk relating to each piece of machinery, equipment, and type of work.


    cultiv ating high lev els of awareness about w orkplace safety and health through external
    study courses

sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. has created a program for employees to acquire a range of qualifications
from public institutions so that they themselves can acquire the knowledge to oversee safety and health
conditions at their workplaces.

                                                                      number of employees newly                          total number of employees
                      course name
                                                                    acquiring qualification (fy2011)                               with qualifications

 ohsas18001 internal auditor                                                                                     3                                            6

 rst trainer1                                                                                                    6                                            8


1 based on the directive from the ministry of health, labor and welfare, this is an official qualification provided by the japan industrial safety & health
   association that certifies the ability of the recipient to instruct forepersons at work sites on workplace safety and health.




                                                                                103                                        sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               social report > together with our employees


  future plans

strengthening disaster response
in addition to its usual workplace safety activities, for each plant sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. has
created a manual, “response and evacuation during an earthquake,” to act as its earthquake and tsunami
emergency-response plan. it also carries out emergency evacuation training and during which, without fail, the
time its employees actually need for evacuation is measured so as to facilitate a rapid response if such an
event does occur.
also, unlike its other plants the 2nd kyushu plant handles chemical products, so once a year it carries out
training for measures to prevent the leakage of poisonous materials.




                                                      104                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 social report > together with our employees




 human rights training for employees


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry’s action statement, “our values and ideals,” lays out the group’s shared ethical code,
based on a respect for diversity, regardless of disability, gender or age, a recognition of equality, and a total
rejection of discrimination. it ensures that all employees are familiar with these concepts through training and
other educational programs.
also, the company publishes english and chinese language versions of “our values and ideals” on its
homepage and is working to communicate its policies and philosophy to as many stakeholders as possible.

  link to related website: “our values and ideals (english)”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/values_03.html#cont04)
  link to related website: “our values and ideals (chinese)”
  (http://sfc.jp/chinese/corporate/policies/values_03.html#cont04)


   results

holding study meetings on human rights
in february 2012, sumitomo forestry held a study meeting on
iso26000 and human rights. more than 20 people participated,
including the head of the personnel department, and they left the
meeting with a deeper understanding of human rights-related issues
that could potentially affect the group’s businesses.




                                                                                a study meeting on human rights




                                                        105                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                              social report > together with our employees



 initiativ es at group companies


  initiativ es for human rights

the company conducted a survey in march 2012 in order to understand csr conditions and initiatives at
group companies within japan.

                                     main initiatives
                                        implementing human rights training
                                        establishing the compliance hotline
                                        conducting educational activities to increase understanding of the
                                        labor agreement




in fiscal 2011, the company launched e-learning training courses for employees of group companies in japan
and currently is confirming how many people took part in these courses. moreover, through the survey, it
confirmed that “respect for humanity” which is expressed in its corporate philosophy is being communicated
to the employees of overseas group companies during various training.




                                                     106                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                              social report > together with our employees




 communication with our employees


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry conducts regular employee satisfaction surveys since 2002.
it pursues a mutually beneficial relationship with its labor union to achieve healthy business development
together.


  results

in july 2011, sumitomo forestry conducted its 5th employee satisfaction survey among 4,880 employees, of
whom 90% responded. the level of employee satisfaction increased by 2-points to 76%, compared to the last
survey conducted in fiscal 2008. the results of the survey were released within a report that also included a
message from the president and a breakdown of the responses to each survey question.



 new business proposal system


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is implementing the power for the future project to solicit new proposals for harnessing the
ambitions and skills of employees in creating new businesses. this system is for everyone who works in the
sumitomo forestry group to make new business proposals based on their own ideas.


  results

among the winning proposals in the power for the future projects since fiscal 2006, the following four have
been commercialized.




                                                      107                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                       social report > together with our employees



commercialized projects

                   proposal                                                       business

                                                 launched in 2008, this one-stop service can respond to customer’s
                                                 housing needs in japan while they are overseas, including for
housing business for workers stationed           custom-built detached housing, spec homes, renovation, land
overseas                                         brokerage, rental brokerage, and monthly apartments.
                                                    internal link: “keeping customers informed” (p.72)


                                                 the special wood construction development team began operations
                                                 in 2009. in september 2010, the wooden elderly care facility in ota
                                                 ward to be built by the company was selected for the promotion of
                                                 wooden towns initiatives sponsored by the ministry of land,
‘promotion of wood’ declaration – mocca–
                                                 infrastructure, transport and tourism.
group operations that encourage greater use
                                                 moreover, in april 2011, the mocca (wood-use integration
of timber resources through the use of wood in
                                                 department) was formed under the direct control of the president,
home structures and features, which
communicate the appeal of wood                   preparing for the group-wide mocca (wood-promotion) business.* it
                                                 will encourage greater use of timber, communicate its appeal, and
                                                 contribute to the revitalization of the forestry business.
                                                    internal link: “responding to the needs of an aging society” (p.75)


                                                 in 2010, home eco logistics co., ltd. was established to promote the
                                                 company’s unique expertise in efficient distribution systems and their
distribution business utilizing the housing
                                                 effectiveness in reducing co2 emissions
division’s relay centers
                                                    internal link: “reducing co2 emissions from transportation (p.167)


                                                 in 2010, the company launched an online store in the club forest, a
                                                 special website for sumitomo forestry homeowners. customers can
online sales business for past customers         order home maintenance products and services 24 hours a day.
                                                    internal link: “keeping customers informed” (p.72)



   future plans

the first power for the future project was held in fiscal 2006, and subsequently it is held once every two
years. it has been held three times to date, with the fourth project scheduled for fiscal 2012.




                                                          108                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               social report > together with our employees



  relations with the labor union


as of april 30, 2012, 100% of sumitomo forestry employees who were eligible to join the labor union had done
so. within the labor agreement completed between the company and the sumitomo forestry labor union, the
company recognizes the labor union’s right to freely engage in activities and to collective bargaining, to
guarantee the safety of labor-union members during their work activities, and to constantly strive to the best of
its ability to maintain and improve labor conditions.

the company arranges regular opportunities for labor and management to exchange views. in addition to
informal labor-management discussions attended by the president and other members of management, there
are performance review meetings several times a year and regular meetings with the personnel department.
in addition, meetings are held between the company and the labor union on specific topics and the opinions
expressed in these meetings are reflected in policies. representatives of the labor union are members of the
safety and health committee, the establishment of which is compulsory under the industrial safety and health
act of japan, and the opinions expressed at these committee meetings are reflected in health and safety
policies.

during 2011, the company continued to reform its various employee programs, including those to reduce
overtime work and encourage employees to take paid vacation, and has been working to resolve issues
related to work-life balance.



  initiativ es at group companies


the company conducted a survey in march 2012 in order to understand csr conditions and initiatives at
group companies within japan.

   labor-management related initiativ es




main initiatives
  discussions at meetings with employees




                                                        109                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                             social report > together with our employees




 human resource dev elopment


  policy & plans

to achieve its corporate philosophy and to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity
advocated in the action guidelines, sumitomo forestry works to develop employees with a strong sense of
pride and motivation as a basic policy for human resources development, based on the keywords
‘autonomous’ and ‘support.’ the company will develop its human resources in group companies both within
and outside of japan, through standardized training across group companies as well as accepting employees
from group companies into the company.


  results

formulating a five year plan, from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2015
in fiscal 2010, the company formulated a five year human resource development plan for the period fiscal
2011 to fiscal 2015.

the five year plan policies and initiatives (fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2015)
(1) taking the perspective that group-wide human resource development is needed, standardize training
    across group companies within and outside of japan and accept employees from group companies into
    the company.
(2) develop the group’s human resources by improving the support for language learning, the overseas
    trainee system, and training prior to being sent to an overseas post.
(3) create a sumitomo forestry learning portal (a japanese e-learning system accessible by all group
    employees both within and outside of japan), to ensure all employees fully understand sumitomo
    forestry’s corporate philosophy and its stance on human rights and compliance with legislation, as well as
    to enhance their skills.
(4) continue with training and programs that provide employees with career support. use performance-based
    evaluation while enhancing on-the-job training to ensure their autonomous commitment to their work and to
    encourage their motivation.




                                                     110                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  social report > together with our employees


initiatives for further enhancing human resources development programs




career consultation and support
the career support desk opened to provide employees with assistance specific to their needs in managing
their careers. specialized career advisers provide expert career advice for individual employees.

a special training department and multifaceted training
in order to proactively develop human resources throughout the group, in april 2011 the company established
the sumitomo forestry business institute within the personnel department to plan and manage a range of
training programs.
in accordance with its human resource development basic policy, sumitomo forestry offers its employees a
variety of training opportunities to encourage them to independently pursue their career ambitions and to
provide opportunities to learn business skills that match their individual career plans.

in addition to training tailored to specific job categories and levels, to support employees’ own efforts to
improve their skills and create their career path, it offers a full range of programs. this includes training for
differing needs and e-learning (45 courses, as of december 31, 2012), “menu-based” selective training at
external institutions and support for acquiring certifications, management strategy, mba at overseas business
schools, and other programs for future business leaders. in fiscal 2011, the company invested 95,000 yen per
employee on training and each employee spent an average of 2.15 days on training. 45% of all group
employees undertook training at some point during the fiscal year.




                                                         111                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                   social report > together with our employees



multifaceted training

                                                                                                                              fy2011
                                                                                                                               results
       training programs                                                         description
                                                                                                                            (number of
                                                                                                                              people)

                                          provided training for new mangers and general managers, in addition to
 periodic training for different          a series of training for new graduates upon entry to the company,
                                                                                                                                     1,179
 levels and job categories                follow-up training, and training at the sumitomo forestry school of
                                          professional building techniques.

                                          provided training for those who have changed job categories, staff
                                          development management, training to promote the achievements of
                                          people with disabilities and females in the workplace, evaluator training
 training for differing needs                                                                                                          898
                                          to increase their understanding of the personnel system, and language
                                          training by invited lecturers. also, e-learning training to improve skills in
                                          housing sales, design, and production.

                                          provided training for management strategy, female manager training,
 selective training                       and mba programs to acquire highly specialized knowledge concerning                            22
                                          management and problem solving methodology.

                                          subsidy available for training programs at external institutions to acquire
 "menu-based" training                                                                                                                 128
                                          certifications and enhance business skills.


note: a total of 10,500 group employees are registered for e-learning courses



    future plans

in fiscal 2012, the company plans to add self-development type training to its training program in order to meet
the need of motivated employees to learn.




       i think that the career support desk is worthwhile if enough people use it, but i’m concerned that
       it will be of little use if it only provides a small number of consultations. (customer)




  creating intellectual property


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry strives to foster a climate conducive to the active creation of intellectual property. the
company is addressing environmental problems by creating new technologies and pursuing patents in the
fields of quality timbers, plantation, the effective use of waste, and long-lasting houses.




                                                                           112                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                social report > together with our employees


   results

promoting shared internal utilization of intellectual property rights
in order to leverage its intellectual property for all its businesses, in 2011 the company once again released
onto the intranet its intellectual property white paper. in april 2012, it updated its in-group website so that
fundamental information on intellectual property, such as on the trademarks used in marketing activities, and
various other types of information, are communicated to group employees in an easy-to-understand manner.

enhancing education and evaluation systems
sumitomo forestry holds study meetings on an ad-hoc basis to encourage the active creation of intellectual
property rights and to help prevent the infringement of other companies’ intellectual property. furthermore,
education on intellectual property has been incorporated in training programs for new graduates, mid-career
employees and general employees. five group companies in japan and eight overseas are independently
conducting training on the protection of intellectual property rights.
in conjunction with this training, the company has also initiated patent proposal and award programs with
monetary incentives awarded to employees who submit ideas for outstanding inventions. in fiscal 2011, 329
proposals were submitted from employees outside of the company’s r&d department alone. on a group-wide
basis, it has stopped collecting proposals relating to the great east japan earthquake, but on an individual-
company basis three group companies are conducting contests for ideas.


   future plans

the company will continue to improve its training programs to raise employee awareness throughout the
group, including through e-learning programs.



 passing on wooden-home construction skills


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry recognizes that to continue building houses that utilize the advantages of the traditional
wooden post-and-beam construction method, it is important to pass on skills and techniques to the next
generation of workers. to achieve its objective of nurturing the skills and knowledge of craftspeople
(carpenters), sumitomo forestry founded the sumitomo forestry school of professional building techniques in
1988 as a boarding school for intra-corporate vocational training.


   results

in march 2012, 27 people graduated from the school, for a total of 911 graduates since its establishment. in
fiscal 2012, 40 students were admitted and are currently engaged in training.




                                                        113                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  social report > together with our employees



sumitomo-trained technicians perform at the worldskills competition
in october 2011, the 41st worldskills competition was held in london, the uk. and a carpentry employee of
sumitomo forestry home engineering co., ltd., who had graduated from the sumitomo forestry training
school and won the gold medal in the previous year’s national skills competition, won the silver medal.
in addition, in december 2011, five graduates of the school and current employees of sumitomo forestry
home engineering co., ltd. participated in the 49th annual national skills competition in shizuoka city,
shizuoka prefecture, winning the silver medal and one “fighting spirit” awards. this means that every year
since the 39th nationwide competition the school’s students/graduates have come home with awards.

  link to the news release: “silver medal in carpentry category of 41st worldskills competition”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20111013.pdf)

a training venue for the sumitomo forestry group
the school also accepts craftspeople from group companies and business partners onto its training courses.

  internal link: communication with suppliers in the housing business (p.89)


   initiativ es at group companies


 the company conducted a survey in march 2012 in order to understand csr conditions and initiatives at
 group companies within japan.


    initiativ es for human resources dev elopment

                                             main initiatives
                                               an in-group training system
                                               an in-group system to certify employee skills
                                               a system to subsidize the cost of acquiring qualifications




    initiativ es at group companies outside of japan

 policy & plans
 communicating with local employees and improving their skills are vital for business development overseas.
 the company is pursuing initiatives tailored to the specific situation and business in each country where it is
 developing its businesses.




                                                         114                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               social report > together with our employees



results
launched a training and commendation program at
dalian its, china
dalian sumirin information technology service co., ltd. (dalian
its) in china has been enhancing its career support system,
including japanese and english language training and manager
training. it has established a commendation system for outstanding
employees and sends some to training courses in japan, providing
them with an opportunity to directly experience the history of
sumitomo forestry and its business activities in japan. in                         a lecture in a university
addition, at the weekly morning briefing, the president gives his
message to employees in both japanese and chinese. this is not only a way of improving their language
skills, but also a communication tool to raise their awareness of company policies and their sense of being
part of the group. these initiatives are helping to increase employee motivation and contributing to improved
human resource development and longer periods of service.

recruitment through a collaboration w ith a university in china
since march 2012, the company has been collaborating with a chinese local university to launch an
internship and recruitment program. while at university, participants in the program will attend lectures on the
company’s business activities and may be recruited as full-time employees on completing an internship.
today in china, many new graduates have difficulty in finding employment to the extent that it has become a
society-wide problem and the university is very optimistic that this program will provide its students with both
educational and work opportunities. from the company’s perspective, it is thought that being able to reliably
recruit personnel who have studied the fundamentals of wooden housing will help it to develop its business in
china, as it will enable it to stably increase employee numbers and also increase opportunities to promote its
employees in china to management positions.

dialogue betw een employees and management in indonesia
pt. ast indonesia (ast) is carrying out a human resources development program in order to improve
employee skills and increase their motivation. it is providing them with training on topics such as reporting,
contacting, and consultation; safety management; and various types of reforms. in addition, once a month it
selects an outstanding employee for a commendation.
ast is also creating opportunities for employees to directly communicate with management. for example,
employees commended for their outstanding performance are invited to a lunch meeting with a member of
management (the japanese representative), where they can convey what they think ast might improve and
their requests for management.




                                                      115                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                             social report > together with society




 communication with society


  policy

sumitomo forestry believes that ongoing communication with society is essential to a company's sustainable
development. the company facilitates communications with local communities and people in the regions in
which it conducts businesses and presents its corporate stance in newspapers, magazines, television, the
internet, and other media. it also participates directly in special events to give the public a more accurate and
deeper understanding about sumitomo forestry.

  link in this report: “improving social infrastructure in papua new guinea” (p.122)
  link in this report: “contribution of social forestry to local communities” (p.203)
  link in this report: “consideration in communities outside of japan and communication” (p.90)


 communication with ngos and npos


                                 as in fiscal 2010, sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. held a permanent exhibit
                                 showcasing its renovation of a historic house, the fujioka family residence, which is
permanent exhibition on the
                                 registered as a tangible cultural property in gojo city, nara prefecture. it is
renovation of a historic home,
                                 collaborating with the npo uchino no yakata on measures to help preserve and
the fujioka family residence
                                 revitalize japan’s historic homes.


                                 in march 2012, the company formulated the sumitomo forestry group declaration of
                                 biodiversity, action guidelines, and long-term targets, and it invited experts from
                                 ngos, npos, and other organizations to a discussion meeting to hear their views and
a meeting to exchange
                                 advice.
opinions with members of
ngos and npos                       link in this report: “exchanging opinions on the group’s plan for biodiversity and its
                                    long-term targets” (p.30)
                                    link in this report: “policy and plans for preserving biodiversity” (p.208)




     i want the company to provide technological guidance in the forest management field, particularly
     for forest thinning and plantation timber. (customer)
     in using timber, i think the company has a duty to carry out research and publicize information
     concerning the link between the use of timber and environmental issues. (customer)
     i learned many things i never knew before, so i hope that the company publicizes its activities
     even more widely and increases the opportunities for contact with local people. (customer)


                                                          116                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     social report > together with society



  disseminating information at symposia and other ev ents


   exhibiting at an international env ironment trade fair jointly held by japanese and
   chinese economic organizations

the company exhibited at the china-japan green expo 2011 held
in beijing, china, in june 2011. it showcased the sumitomo
forestry group’s environmentally sound technologies and products
and also its diverse range of business activities. at the company’s
booth, its subsidiaries in china; sumitomo forestry dalian trading
ltd., paragon wood product (shanghai) co., ltd., dalian sumirin
information technology service co., ltd. (dalian its), and fuxin
sumirin wood products co., ltd. used display panels to introduce
their businesses, while staff from these companies were also
                                                                             the china-japan green expo 2011
present to explain their business activities to visitors. around 90
companies and organizations from japan and china exhibited at the event, which had approximately 20,000
visitors.

  link to the news release: “sumitomo forestry group to exhibit in china-japan green expo 2011”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110523.pdf)


   independently holding ev ents to communicate the appeal of wood and forests during
   the international year of forests

in november 2011, the company opened its sustainable forest
gallery 2011 autumn “the power of forests empowers the future”
exhibition in roppongi hills, tokyo.
this event communicated the value of wood and the importance of
forests by giving visitors the opportunity to actually touch and
experience different types of trees, thereby raise awareness of the
importance of forests in conjunction with the international year of
forests.
                                                                           sustainable forest gallery 2011 autumn




     i’d like the company to communicate to the world the importance of forests and the importance of
     environments that protect forests in future years. i also hope that it contributes to environmental
     protection through its work in forests. (shareholder, investor)




                                                       117                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                     social report > together with society



disseminating information through symposia and seminars

            name of the symposium / seminar                                                    contents

jointly held by the forestry agency ministry of agriculture,
forestry and fisheries of japan and the ministry of
forestry, the republic of indonesia                                  lecture on “the management by sumitomo forestry co.,
                                                                     ltd. of forest certified company-owned forests in
international seminar on the challenge of sustainable                hokkaido and their characteristics”
forestry management
march 2011

study meeting held by the all japan timber building
                                                                     lecture on “company-owned forests and japan’s current
materials and distribution council
                                                                     forestry policy”
may 2011

held by jica                                                         lecture on “sumitomo forestry measures for forest
training for the asia and latin america forestry                     management with iso certification and sgec forestry
certification course                                                 certification” and a training case study based on forestry
june 2011                                                            management carried out in monbetsu forest in hokkaido

                                                                     visitors to the company’s booth were introduced to its
                                                                     j-ver credit operations through case studies
held by the ministry of the environment                              demonstrating how it creates and uses carbon offset
carbon offset expo (market)                                          credits. at the tokyo event, the company showcased its
tokyo, nagoya, and fukuoka                                           project on offsetting co2 that were emitted during
july 2011 to march 2012                                              constructions of detached houses with the credit from its
                                                                     new plantation in indonesia. (p.169) the project received
                                                                     the incentive award a the first carbon offset award.

lecture given at the forestry and forest products
research institute                                                   within the theme of the integration of the housing industry
september, 2011 (at forest tree breeding center)                     and forestry management, a lecture on “changing housing
november, 2011 (at forestry and forest products                      needs in japan and the future of forestry management”
research institute)

                                                                     on the themes of “commemorating the international year
                                                                     of forests and building a strong nation through
                                                                     invigorating forestry,” this seminar was held to deepen the
held by sumitomo forestry
                                                                     understanding of the media on this topic. lectures were
seminar to commemorate the international year of forests
                                                                     given by the department of agriculture, kagoshima
october 2011
                                                                     university; the forestry agency; and the forestry &
                                                                     environment division, sumitomo forestry. the event also
                                                                     included a panel discussion.

                                                                     on the theme of “the future of japan from the
                                                                     perspective of regenerating forests and forestry,” a
                                                                     lecture on “measures for sustainable forestry management
jointly held by ministry of agriculture, forestry and                and forestry regeneration.” to commemorate the
fisheries and nikkei inc. conference to commemorate the              international year of forests, a discussion was held on
international year of forests 2011                                   rebuilding the country by regenerating japan’s forests and
october 2011                                                         its forestry industry, which currently face serious
                                                                     challenges, through collaboration between the government,
                                                                     industry, and academia, toward recovering from the
                                                                     earthquake disaster


                                                               118                                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                               social report > together with society



             name of the symposium / seminar                                             contents

                                                                in this conference, company chairman ryu yano
                                                                participated as the chairperson for the japanese
                                                                delegation, themes important to both japan and new
38th meeting of the japan new zealand business council
                                                                zealand were discussed, including “current economic
november 2011
                                                                conditions and prospects for japan and new zealand,”
                                                                “the food, fishery, agriculture, and forestry industries,”
                                                                and “tourism.”

                                                                in november 2011, within the theme of “preserving forests
                                                                based on the concept of local initiatives but while also
department of economics, meijo university (social
                                                                considering global environmental concerns and
fieldwork)
                                                                companies’ social responsibilities,” the company gave a
november 2011
                                                                lecture on “initiatives for preserving forests inside and
                                                                outside of japan and for actively using timber”

                                                                a company representative took part in a panel discussion
nikkei bp environmental management forum
                                                                on the theme of the “role of the company in a sustainable
december 2011
                                                                society”

ehime university mori no kuni (country of forests); a
                                                                a special lecture on “structural problems in forestry and
special course on forestry environmental management
                                                                the distribution of timber”
december 2011

held by the k-rip, kyushu industrial technology center,
kyushu economic federation, ministry of the environment
                                                                lecture on “creating wood biomass fuel chips from
(epo kyushu)
                                                                plantation forest left-over timber”
the 3rd environmental innovation forum
january 2012

the gunma sumitomo society                                      lecture on “initiatives to combat global environmental
february 2012                                                   problems and for the active utilization of timber”

the 27th international symposium on okhotsk sea and
sea ice                                                         lecture on “the application of the forest biomass as a
“forest-village-sea chain studies”                              renewable energy”
february 2012

keidanren committee on nature conservation
                                                                lecture on “sumitomo forestry and biodiversity –
meeting to exchange opinions on biodiversity
                                                                initiatives and measures of promotion”
march 2012




                                                          119                                 sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     social report > together with society




  human rights policies


all employees, including officers, carry out the group’s business activities in keeping with the sumitomo
forestry ethical framework expressed in its corporate philosophy, action guidelines, and our values and
ideals, which includes prohibiting wrongful discrimination and respecting human rights.

   link to related website: “corporate philosophy and action guidelines”
   (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/philosophy.html)
   link to related website: “our values and ideals”
   (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/values_03.html#cont04)
   link in this report: “the united nations global compact” (p.17)


  human rights programs


if a sumitomo forestry employee violates the in-company ethical regulations, an internal reporting system is in
place for reporting this violation. also, in accordance with japan’s labor standards law, the company has
prescribed regulations for the fair dismissal of employees and does not permit an employee to be dismissed
unfairly.

   link in this report: “human rights training for employees” (p.105)
   link in this report: “the compliance counter” (p.47)


  considering human rights in our inv estments and business dev elopment


   link in this report: “the united nations global compact” (p.17)
   link to related website: “our values and ideals”
   (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/values_03.html#cont04)


  human rights in the supply chain


in accordance with its timber procurement philosophy and timber procurement policy, from 2012 to 2013 the
company will continue with its investigations to ascertain human rights conditions and policies at its suppliers.

   internal link: “communication with sumitomo forestry’s business partners” (p.88)
   internal link: “supplier evaluation in the housing business” (p.84)
   link to related website: “our values and ideals”
   (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate/policies/values_03.html#cont04)




                                                         120                        sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     social report > together with society



 prev ention of child labor and forced labor


the sumitomo forestry group’s offices in and outside japan hire employees in compliance with local laws and
ordinances, and do not engage in illegal labor practices such as child labor and forced labor.

  internal link: “the united nations global compact” (p.17)




                                                      121                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                         social report > together with society




  benefits of business dev elopment for local communities


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry aims to contribute to sustainable local development through its operations. when starting
new businesses or expanding its overseas business sites, the company's policy is to consider the
environment, revitalize local economies and promote employment and thereby operate in harmony with local
communities.


   results

improving social infrastructure in papua new guinea
open bay timber ltd. (obt), which is engaged in plantation forestry
in papua new guinea, started plantation forestry operations in
1984 and has made significant contributions to the economic
development of the local community. obt became a member of the
sumitomo forestry group in april 2007 and continues to develop
plantation timber resources in a responsible manner and to use
those resources effectively.
in the open bay region where obt is located, as government-                                 nesai bridge
provided social infrastructure is inadequate, obt operates a
hospital, kindergarten and supermarket for employees and children. it also provides means of transportation for
the local residents, including emergency transportation of critically ill patients to hospitals and shuttling of
residents to and from marketplaces. in fiscal 2008, it built six wooden bridges (of approximately 20m) over
rivers in preparation for the rainy season floods, which continued to be used today by local residents. in
accordance with the wishes of the local people, in fiscal 2011 it constructed two reinforced concrete
subsidence bridges (of approximately 70m and 30m).


kti educational foundation
to commemorate the 30th anniversary of its founding, sumitomo forestry group company pt. kutai timber
indonesia (kti) established the kti educational foundation in 2000 to provide scholarships to elementary and
middle school students living in the vicinity of the kti plant and plantation forests. the foundation also
provides relief donations for natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. in fiscal 2011, the foundation
provided 42,820,000 rupiah (approximately 380,000 yen) to 46 elementary, middle, and high school students.




                                                         122                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   social report > together with society



contributing to communities by employment and procurement
  internal link: “contribution of social forestry to local communities” (p.203)
  internal link: “consideration in communities outside of japan and communication” (p.90)
  internal link: “hiring locally at group companies outside of japan” (p.99)




    i hope that the company continues to provide support to developing countries and countries that
    have few areas of greenery. (company employee)




                                                     123                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     social report > together with society




 policy on social contribution activ ities


sumitomo forestry strives to contribute to the sustainable utilization of timber resources and local community
development, as well as to protect the abundant forests into the future. with these aims, the company is
engaged in a wide variety of social contribution activities. raising awareness about forests to a larger
segment of society is particularly important to their preservation. this motivates sumitomo forestry to
dedicate resources to environmental education such as lectures for elementary and middle school students, as
well as on-site training at forests. the company is also actively involved in restoring forests damaged by
disaster. sumitomo forestry also supports volunteer activities undertaken by individual employees in local
communities to create a workplace environment that encourages people to contribute to their local
communities.



 introducing a volunteer leav e program


to support its employees’ volunteering activities, in may 2011 the company formulated a volunteer leave
program that allows employees a total of five days of leave a year for volunteer activities. moreover, the
company provided special support for volunteer activities for the great east japan earthquake, setting a time
period within which it would pay the travel expenses and volunteer insurance premiums of employees who
wanted to help.




     i think it is great that the company provides not only its employees with leave for volunteering,
     but also pays their traffic expenses and covers their insurance costs for these activities.
     (customer)




                                                      124                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                          social report > together with society



    funds allocated to social contribution activ ities


funds allocated to social contribution activities (fy2011: sumitomo forestry, non-consolidated)




*   excluding financial donations for earthquake relief.




    breakdown of social contribution activ ities


breakdown of social contribution activities (fy2011: sumitomo forestry group)




    social contribution activ ities for disaster support


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is carrying out support activities to help restore the region devastated by the great east
japan earthquake of march 2011.




                                                           125                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                       social report > together with society


   results

constructing and providing temporary housing
the company gathered a team of over 230 construction supervisors, carpenters, and workers from around the
country to construct temporary housing for the people in the devastated regions of miyagi prefecture and
fukushima prefecture. it has also been utilizing its materials logistics infrastructure and setting up relay
centers for construction materials to be used in its temporary housing.

delivering donations and goods
in addition to the 100 million yen donated by the sumitomo forestry group, the group's employees donated an
additional 20 million yen. moreover, it shipped and delivered a range of items needed in the region, including
food, daily commodities, motorbikes, and bicycles.

supporting the supply of electricity
in response to electricity shortages in areas supplied by tepco, the kawasaki biomass electric power co.,
ltd. facility has remained fully operational around the clock, including during the night and on public holidays.

successfully grow ing saplings from the “pine tree of hope” in rikuzentakata city
the “pine tree of hope” was the only pine tree among thousands in takata-matsubara to survive the great
east japan earthquake and the resulting tsunami. sumitomo forestry tsukuba research institute accepted a
request to grow saplings from the tree and conduct a chemical analysis of the tree trunk. researchers from the
institute came up with two promising methods to cultivate the saplings; a cloning technique such as grafting
and tissue culturing using genetic material collected from the pine, and a technique for cultivating saplings from
some of the pine tree’s few surviving seeds. using these methods, by december 2011 the researchers had
successfully cloned three saplings using the grafting technique and grown 18 saplings from the seeds. going
forward, sumitomo forestry will grow the saplings with the utmost care so they can serve as symbols of hope
for the recovery, and it also plans to use the seeds from these saplings to grow more saplings. the techniques
used in this project utilized the seedling production technologies developed and accumulated by the group in
its plantation forest and greening operations, and the cloning technologies it had developed for projects such
as the cloning of one of japan’s historically important cherry blossom trees.




                                               six days after seeding            the new buds sprout (two months
                                                                                   after the seeds were planted)
  a tree climber collects materials

providing housing products that actively employ tohoku timber
in order to contribute to the recovery of the tohoku region, in july 2011 sumitomo forestry launched the
cheer up japan! support tohoku! project. for this project, it created the support tohoku! (specification)
product, which features pillars and beams entirely made from timber from the six tohoku prefectures, and the
“tohoku timber interiors upgrade” product, which features upgraded interiors that make extensive use of
timber from tohoku. then in august, it established a loan system exclusively for these homes.


                                                        126                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   social report > together with society



  link to the news release: sumitomo forestry to launch cheer up japan! support tohoku! project
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110630.pdf)

participating in the rikuzentakata machi living project
in december 2011, sumitomo forestry set up the riku café, which was
created as a temporary facility as part of the rikuzentakata living room of
the town project being implemented in rikuzentakata city. the company is
participating in this project as part of a collaborative venture between
industry, academia, citizen’s groups, and npos. other temporary facilities
within the same location include a hospital, dental clinic, and a pharmacy.
the goal is for the café to serve as a community meeting place that local
citizens can visit to chat and obtain advice without the need for an             the riku café temporary facility

appointment.




     i would like to commend the company for the 24-hour operation of the biomass power plant in
     kawasaki. (customer)
     i think it’s wonderful how much the company is contributing to the recovery of east japan. as
     sumitomo forestry is a global company involved with people around the world, i hope that it
     contributes to the world by having a good understanding of diverse cultures and valuing local
     people. (customer)



  social contribution activ ities for env ironmental conserv ation


   mt. fuji manabi no mori project

to contribute to local communities, sumitomo forestry launched the mt.fuji
manabi no mori natural forest restoration project in public forests south of
mt.fuji in 1998. major tree-planting activities have been completed and the
trees have now reached the cultivation stage, so the company is continuing
with cultivation activities such as clearing away underbrush and pruning. the
mt. fuji manabi no mori project offers support in training local human
resources to promote environmental education. also, the company has been
participating in research projects, including vegetation monitoring programs
and wildlife habitat surveys by specialists, activities which it has been
supporting for more than 10 years.
under the project, the environmental education program for local elementary
and middle school students was launched in fiscal 2006, and continued in             environmental education
collaboration with the npo whole earth nature school. a total of 539                       support project
students participated in the program in fiscal 2011.
the company also began a nature experience program in fiscal 2007 for children at child care centres, with 30
children participating in fiscal 2011.




                                                       127                        sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                      social report > together with society


   conserv ation of tokyo headwater forests

as part of its efforts to support employees’ volunteer activities, since april 2005 sumitomo forestry has
provided assistance for employees participating in the tamagawa suigen shinrintai (tama riverhead forest
region), sponsored by the tokyo metropolitan bureau of waterworks.


   reforestation project in indonesia’s bromo national park

policy & plans
in 2008, sumitomo forestry began working with the republic of indonesia's ministry of forestry to carry out a
reforestation project (project earth (p.170)) in bromo tengger semeru national park in east java, parts of
which had been devastated by repeated forest fires and sulphur dioxide gas emitted by mt. bromo. the aims of
the plantation forest operations are to recover the forest’s natural functions and to return the precious and vital
forests in the national park for the benefit of local people.

results
completed planting of 310 hectares
tree planting has continued since the project started in january 2009, and to date approximately 310 hectares
of land have been planted with trees. the project proactively employs local people and encourages local
school children to get involved with the plantation activity.

future plans
going forward, the project will continue to expand the land area under reforestation as well as nurturing the
trees already planted. as the surveys carried out up to now have confirmed the inhabitation of rare species, in
the future the connection between their inhabitation situation and plantation operations will be further
investigated and the results utilized in planning.




     i would like sumitomo forestry to open up a forest it manages and cultivates for use for children's
     activities that will help them learn about the environment and sustainable businesses, as they will
     be responsible for the planet in the future. (student)



  social contribution activ ities in local communities


   forester house

policy & plans
forester house, located in the company-owned forest in the besshiyama area of niihama city, ehime
prefecture, helps introduce to the general public the initiatives in sustainable forestry that sumitomo forestry
has been conducting for over 100 years. it also gives information on forests and forestry.
forester house was opened to the public in 1993. it was founded to commemorate the centenary of the
large-scale reforestation plan initiated in 1894 by teigo iba, the manager of the sumitomo besshi copper mine
and later the second director general of sumitomo.




                                                         128                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                      social report > together with society



results
attracting 300 visitors in fy2011, including local people
the facility is used as a base for walks in the forest, nature observation, environmental education, historical
visits, and also for training programs for local people and employees from group companies both inside and
outside of japan.


   elementary and junior high schools in the tohoku region participate in the omurozakura
   research project.

this project was launched in january 2010 by ninna-ji temple, sumitomo forestry, and other organizations.
by february 2012, the first omurozakura seedling cultured by researchers from sumitomo forestry tsukuba
research institute using tissue cultivation had grown to a size at which it could be planted, and so it was
returned to its home at ninna-ji temple. at the same time, the researchers began test-planting at locations
throughout the country managed by ninna-ji temple and also by sumitomo forestry, each site having a
different type of soil and climatic conditions. in addition, elementary and junior high schools in the tohoku
region, which was severely damaged in the great east japan earthquake, were invited to join in with this
research project. the goal is to provide them with an opportunity to think positively about the future by
witnessing the rebirth of these cherry blossom trees. it is hoped that the cherry blossoms grown from cultured-
tissue seeds will become a symbol that continues to remind future generations about the great east japan
earthquake and japan’s recovery from the disaster.



  contributing to education and the dev elopment of the next generation


   community-based support for the next generation in north america

group company canyon creek cabinet company, which
manufactures and sells cabinets, is actively supporting students in
its local area. it provides scrap timber to local boy scouts to help
them practice and improve their carpentry skills, and also provides
them with a meeting room for their monthly leadership meetings. in
addition, it offers local students tours of its factory facilities, during
which the factory employees help the students have a try at
carpentry to gain a better understanding of the company’s activities.
canyon creek cabinet company also supports young people to
                                                                                         factory tour
learn business skills through the regional business week program,
for which it offers bursaries, and also provides offcuts to a local toy
manufacturer which uses them to make wooden toys and puzzles to donate to a local childcare facility and a
children’s hospital. in 2012, it received the community service award from the washington state chamber of
commerce and industry for its ongoing initiatives to support the local region.



  contributions to public policy


   policy & plans

the sumitomo forestry group collaborates and cooperates with the national government, local governments,
and industry and offers suggestions on public policy to improve and solve the worsening environmental
problems and social issues.

                                                           129                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                             social report > together with society


   results

in fiscal 2011, the group offered suggestions on public policy primarily to the following organizations.

                                                                                                       (as of april 30, 2011)

                    name of organization                                                   position

conference to consider forest-related countermeasures to
global warming
                                                                    committee member
(the forestry agency, ministry of agriculture, forestry and
fisheries)

japic                                                               committee member

consortium for building research & development                      director

                                                                    vice-chairperson, standardization evaluation
long-use housing materials standardization promotion council
                                                                    committee member

health maintenance & improvement home research
                                                                    secretary general
consortium

japanese business federation                                        executive director, director

japan federation of housing organizations                           vice-chairperson

wooden home builders association of japan                           chairperson

the machinami foundation                                            director

institute for building environment and energy conservation          director

forest management association of japan                              vice-chairperson / director

the japan-indonesia economic committee                              committee member

the tokyo chamber of commerce and industry                          special advisor, assembly member

the tokyo chamber of commerce and industry
                                                                    committee chairperson
japan committee for the japan-new zealand business council




                                                              130                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                            environmental report > fiscal 2011 activity plans and results




 reducing co 2 emissions


                                                                       :target achieved △:target almost achieved                    :target not achieved
       key                                                                                    self-
                                fy2011 plan                     fy2011 results                                     fy2012 plan                   unit
    initiatives                                                                            assessment

                                                        in offices, the amount of
                                                        electricity used in japan
                      offices: by fy2010, achieve a     declined due to
                      12% reduction in overall          post-earthquake power saving
                      emissions compared with           measures. however, similar
                      fy2006, and maintain this level   progress was not made in
                      to 2014                           reducing gasoline consumption
                                                        and the overall reduction of
                      subsidiaries in manufacturing     10.6% was below the target.
                      businesses in japan: by           nonetheless, the result was an
                      fy2014, achieve an 8%             improvement on the previous
                      reduction in base units*          fiscal year.
                                                                                                        continue with initiatives to
                      compared with fy2006
                                                                                                        achieve targets
                      each plant independently sets     subsidiaries in manufacturing
                      its own base units for targets.   businesses in japan
                                                                                                        in offices, continue with
                      in addition, as a means to        significantly increased their                                                      sumitomo
                                                                                                        far-reaching power saving
                      collectively manage progress      electricity usage, up 15.2%                                                        forestry group
                                                                                                        initiatives; also, enact
                      toward achieving targets, the     compared to the base year;
                                                                                                        measures to further reduce the
                      plants use the rate of decrease   this was due to increased
                                                                                                        use of gasoline and other fossil
                      in their co2 emissions relative   production lines. however, the
reduction of co2                                                                                        fuels
                      to the base year of fy2006.       total was a year-on-year
emissions
                                                        improvement when calculated
                      subsidiaries in manufacturing     according to base units, thanks
                      businesses outside japan: set     to initiatives to reduce
                      targets for each plant in         maximum instantaneous
                      consideration of local laws and   consumption of electricity.
                      regulations, including overall
                      emissions, emissions per unit     made improvements at plants
                      sold, and / or other targets as   outside japan on based on
                      appropriate to each facility.     independently-set base units
                                                        basis, including at alpine, rpi,
                                                        and srp

                                                        switched to energy-saving
                                                        lighting in showrooms and
                                                        model homes and use of
                      reduce total emissions at                                                         continue efforts to reduce
                                                        fuel-efficient company-owned
                      branches nationwide by 9.5%                                                       consumption of electricity and     housing division
                                                        vehicles. as a result, achieved
                      compared with fy2006                                                              gasoline
                                                        a large decrease in co2
                                                        emissions of 15.3% compared
                                                        with fy2006.

                                                        conducted lca surveys and
                      survey co2 emissions volume                                                       continue implementing lca
                                                        revised carbon footprint data
introduction of lca   through lca and revise carbon                                                     surveys and revising carbon        rpi
                                                        displayed on particle board
                      footprint of our products                                                         footprint data
                                                        manufactured

                                                        installed residential storage
                                                                                                        construct the lccm model
decreasing the                                          batteries in monitor homes and
                      propose energy                                                                    home and provisionally
environmental                                           verified their use.                                                                housing division
                      self-sufficient-type homes                                                        calculate lcco2 by using the
impact of housing
                                                                                                        lccm assessment tool
                                                        launched smart solabo.




                                                                              131                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                             environmental report > fiscal 2011 activity plans and results



 zero emissions


         key                                                                                  self-
                                 fy2011 plan                       fy2011 results                                 fy2012 plan                   unit
     initiatives                                                                           assessment

                       continue efforts to achieve                                                      continue efforts to achieve
                       zero emissions at domestic                                                       zero emissions at domestic
                       manufacturing plants and new      advanced zero emission                         manufacturing plants and new
                                                                                                                                          sumitomo
                       housing construction sites        initiatives and achieved 89.3%                 housing construction sites,
                                                                                                                                          forestry group
                       based on the scope and            recycling.                                     aiming for zero emissions in
                       definition of zero emissions as                                                  the tokyo metropolitan area by
                       reevaluated in fy2010.                                                           december 2012.

                                                                                                        continue efforts to achieve
                                                                                                        zero emissions through
                       aim for 87% recycling in order    despite efforts at each branch,                recycling at recycling centers
                                                                                               △                                          housing division
                       to achieve zero emissions.        target was not achieved                        utilizing the inter-region
                                                                                                        recovery and recycling
                                                                                                        certification system

attainment of zero                                       a 3% reduction achieved
emissions                                                through visualization of
                                                         separation of management,
                                                         and implementation of
                                                         environmental education,
                                                         which raised consciousness of
                                                         industry waste management.
                       engage in zero emissions                                                                                           sumitomo
                                                                                                        continue efforts to achieve
                       efforts with a target of 99.8%                                                                                     forestry crest
                                                         efforts were made to achieve                   zero emissions at all plants
                       recycling at all plants.                                                                                           co., ltd.
                                                         further reductions by searching
                                                         for and implementing new
                                                         processing methods for
                                                         difficult-to-recycle waste
                                                         products; but despite these
                                                         efforts, the recycling rate was
                                                         0.1% below the target

                                                         because the volume of dust
                       create wood pellets from
                                                         generated in the rainy season                  continue with machine
re-use of waste        unusable dust generated in
                                                         was less than expected, the           △        improvements to increase          rpi
materials              particle board preparation
                                                         result was slightly below the                  pellet production
                       processes.
                                                         target volume.




 sustainability of timber resources


         key                                                                                  self-
                                 fy2011 plan                       fy2011 results                                 fy2012 plan                   unit
     initiatives                                                                           assessment

                                                                                                        continue confirming legal
                       confirm legal compliance of all
promotion of green                                       conducted legal compliance                     compliance of suppliers and       timber & building
                       suppliers outside japan,
procurement                                              survey.                                        create systems for verifying      materials division
                       continuing on from fy2009.
                                                                                                        legal compliance in the future

                       increase share of imported
                                                         although the volume handled                    continue working towards 91%
                       certified timber products to                                                                                       timber & building
                                                         has increased, there was a            △        ratio for certified timber
                       93% of total imported wood                                                                                         materials division
                                                         slight shortfall in the ratio                  materials handled.
sustainable timber     products handled.
and certified timber
initiatives            increase share of certified and                                                  maintain share of certified and
                       plantation timber in log                                                         plantation timber in log          kowa lumber
                                                         100% of target achieved
                       transactions to 100% used in                                                     transactions to 100% used in      co., ltd.
                       all products.                                                                    all products.




                                                                                132                                 sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                            environmental report > fiscal 2011 activity plans and results



  preserv ing biodiv ersity


         key                                                                                 self-
                                  fy2011 plan                  fy2011 results                                    fy2012 plan                 unit
     initiatives                                                                          assessment

                                                        conducted monitoring surveys                   conduct monitoring surveys at
                       set plans for monitoring of                                                                                     forestry &
 preserving                                             at company-owned forests in                    company-owned forests in the
                       biodiversity and conduct                                                                                        environment
 biodiversity                                           wakayama and the shikoku                       shikoku region
                       surveys.                                                                                                        division
                                                        region (mominokiyama)                          (mominokiyama).




  management of hazardous materials


         key                                                                                 self-
                                  fy2011 plan                  fy2011 results                                    fy2012 plan                  unit
     initiatives                                                                          assessment

                                                                                                       strict enforcement of soil
                                                                                                       contamination surveys and
                                                                                                       compliance with survey
 comprehensive          strict enforcement of soil      confirmed no soil                                                              real estate
                                                                                                       procedures in accordance with
 soil contamination     contamination countermeasure    contamination in all applicable                                                business
                                                                                                       the group's guidebook on soil
 countermeasures        rules when land is acquired.    projects.                                                                      division
                                                                                                       contamination risk
                                                                                                       countermeasures created in
                                                                                                       fy2010.

                                                                                                       continue implementing
 appropriate
                        zero contamination of shipped                                                  thorough checks on receipt of
 management of                                          achieved target                                                                ast
                        products with toxic chemicals                                                  raw materials and maintain
 toxic chemicals
                                                                                                       zero contamination.




  effectiv e use of water resources


         key                                                                                 self-
                                  fy2011 plan                  fy2011 results                                    fy2012 plan                 unit
     initiatives                                                                          assessment

                                                        an 11% increase compared to                                                    sumitomo
 reduction of          achieve a 3% reduction in the
                                                        fy2010, which was a result of                  achieve a 5% reduction          forestry crest
 industrial water      amount of industrial water
                                                        taking into account the                        compared with fy2011.           co., ltd. (no. 2
 used                  used compared with fy2010.
                                                        stabilization of the cod1 value                                                kyushu plant)



1 cod: chemical oxygen demand. this shows the amount of oxygen required to oxidize an organic compound in water and is considered one of the most
   important indicators of water quality.




                                                                            133                                    sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                  environmental report > fiscal 2011 activity plans and results



    env ironmental management


          key                                                                                      self-
                                   fy2011 plan                     fy2011 results                                      fy2012 plan                     unit
       initiatives                                                                           assessment

                         implement environmental
                                                           implemented e-learning on the
                         education for employees of the                                                      aim to strengthen knowledge
                                                           subject of the environment a                                                          housing division
                         housing division through                                                            through e-learning and training
  enhancement and                                          total of six times.
                         e-learning.
  promotion of
  environmental
                                                                                                             implement six times
  education              implement comprehensive           implemented five times for
                                                                                                             comprehensive training that
                         training that incorporates        branch general managers and                                                           housing division
                                                                                                             incorporates environmental
                         environmental topics              branch managers
                                                                                                             topics

                                                                                                             continue with initiatives to set
                         set green purchasing ratio                                                          green purchasing ratio targets
                                                           achieved a green purchasing
                         targets in each division and                                                        for each division, department,
                                                           ratio of 71.8% (sumitomo                   -                                          group-wide
                         department and implement                                                            and group company and
                                                           forestry)
                         measures to achieve them                                                            continue with measures to
                                                                                                             achieve them.




    promotion of env ironmental businesses


        key                                                                                   self-
                             fy2011 plan                    fy2011 results                                            fy2012 plan                     unit
    initiatives                                                                           assessment

                                                                                                             commercialize
                                                                                                             products that utilize
 effective                                                                                                   used activated carbon,
 utilization of        achieve 2% increase                                                                   such as landscaping
                                                        a 2.2% increase
 used activated        in the amount of used                                                                 soil and soil                      sumirin
                                                        compared with the
 carbon from           activated carbon                                                                      improvement materials, agro-products
                                                        previous year,
 water                 utilized, compared to                                                                 expand routes to                   co., ltd.
                                                        achieving the target.
 purification          previous year.                                                                        market, and aim for 2%
 plants                                                                                                      increase of the amount
                                                                                                             used compared to the
                                                                                                             previous year.

 effective use         sale of furniture made                                                                expand sales
 of wood               from timber from                 achieved 118% of                                     proactively to major               housing
 leftover from         forest thinnings in              target sales volume                                  interior design fairs              division
 logging               monbetsu, hokkaido.                                                                   held across the nation.

                       ・develop plantation
                       technologies and tree
                       species for marshes
                                                        initiatives for a range
                       and develop elite                                                                                                        sumitomo
                               1                        of themes were
 conduct               trees                                                                                 continue with initiatives          forestry
                                                        progressed, and an
 environment-          ・develop materials                                                         △          for each of these r&d              tsukuba
                                                        overall rate of
 focused r&d           recycling technologies                                                                themes                             research
                                                        progress of 76% was
                       for construction waste                                                                                                   institute
                                                        achieved.
                       materials
                       ・develop smart
                       house technologies
1 trees with superior characteristics in terms of growth speed, timber quality, tree form, etc.

                                                                                 134                                     sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > environmental vision




env ironmental philosophy and env ironmental policies



  environmental philosophy

  with many years of practical experience in silviculture, the sumitomo forestry group has an
  appreciation of the wonderful renewable resource that forests represent and the benefits that
  nature provides. environmental protection is imperative in the 21st century. as a corporate group
  with a close affinity with nature, the group is aware of the potential impact of its activities on the
  environment, and it contributes to society through the vigorous pursuit of business operations in
  harmony with conservation principles.




  environmental policies

  as a positive contribution to the creation of a sustainable society that achieves a balance
  between the environment and economy and gives due consideration to such issues as
  biodiversity and the prevention of global warming, the sumitomo forestry group shall ensure
  conformance of its business operations to the following policies.

  1. develop a business domain centered on trees and wood
     cultivate forests as a way to preserve and enhance natural environments and forest
     functionality while seeking to actively utilize those timber resources.

  2. develop and sell environmentally friendly products
     pursue the development, design and sale of products and technologies that are
     environmentally superior in terms of the entire product lifecycle.

  3. minimize environmental impact
     make efforts to prevent environmental pollution through accurate assessment of direct and
     indirect influences on the environment.
     promote green procurement of timber and other building materials and green purchasing of
     office products and other goods.
     achieve and maintain zero emissions through proper waste treatment and 3r (reduce, reuse,
     and recycle) initiatives.

  4. make ongoing improvements to environmental activity and the environmental
  management system
     establish environmental budgets to ensure implementation of the environmental policies.
     make ongoing improvements to environmental budgets and the environmental management
     system through reviews conducted at least once a year.

                                                     135                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                          environmental report > environmental vision



5. ensure strict legal compliance
   adhere to all environmental laws, rules and regulations, voluntary standards, accords with
   stakeholders and other environmental conventions.

6. promote environmental education
   provide environmental education for all people involved in the business operations of the
   sumitomo forestry group and encourage voluntary environmental activities.

7. place emphasis on communication
   actively disclose information and respect the opinions of stakeholders while pursuing
   environmental initiatives.

8. publicly disclose and ensure implementation of the environmental policies
   make the environmental policies available to the general public and ensure familiarization
   with the policies by all people involved in the business operations of the sumitomo forestry
   group.

                                           akira ichikawa president and representative director
                                                                          (revised april 1, 2010)




it is important that sumitomo forestry effectively communicate its vision to society. (expert)




                                                 136                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                          environmental report > environmental vision




 medium-term env ironmental management plan


in december 2009, the sumitomo forestry group set forth the medium-term environmental management plan,
including specific guiding principles and targets for the group’s environmental management going forward,
replacing the previous plan that was established in december 2005. the plan takes the medium-term
perspective, examining specific quantitative targets to define the vision of where sumitomo forestry should be
in five years’ time, setting out shared targets for the group as well as targets for each division, and major
affiliated company.

measures to achieve the targets are set forth by various perspectives: product (customer), business process
innovation (internal, business partners), human resource development (employees, business partners),
communication (industry, general public), etc. by advancing efforts to achieve the targets below, the group will
realize true environmental management.

medium-term environmental management plan (excerpt of major objectives)

                                  area of
                                                  basic strategy
      unit     responsible     environmental                                                                                              fy2014
                                                   (objectives)                                                        fy2011
                                   impact                               evaluation metrics / targeted values                           targeted
                                                                                                                       results
                                                                                                                                          values

                                                reduction of co2
                                                emissions (offices;                                                                 -12% (2010
                                                                        percentage of reduction of total co2
                                                excluding                                                          -10.6%           target value
                                                                        emissions compared with fy2006 (%)
                                                manufacturing                                                                       continues)
                                                companies)

                                                                        percentage of reduction of co2
                                                                        emissions per sales unit compared with
                                                                        fy2006 (%): all manufacturing
                                                                        companies in japan, including offices
                                                                        *   each plant uses voluntarily-set base                    -8%
                                                                                                                   15.2%
                                                                            units                                                   (each plant)
sumitomo                                                                *   the percentage reduction of total
               environmental
forestry                                                                    co2 emissions compared with
               management      global warming
group(shared                                                                fy2006 (%) is used concurrently as
               department
targets)                                        reduction of co2            a progress management indicator.
                                                emissions
                                                (manufacturing          emission volume percentage reduction
                                                companies in japan)     guidelines for capital investment and
                                                                        emission volume transactions

                                                                        sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.
                                                                                                                                    -10%
                                                                        (total for kashima / shizuoka / niihama)

                                                                        sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.
                                                                        (total for nagoya / kyushu / no. 2                          -20%
                                                                        kyushu)

                                                                        sumirin agro-products co., ltd.                             -10%



                                                                      137                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                      environmental report > environmental vision




                                       area of
                                                         basic strategy
      unit         responsible     environmental                                                                                                      fy2014
                                                           (objectives)                                                              fy2011
                                        impact                                   evaluation metrics / targeted values                              targeted
                                                                                                                                     results
                                                                                                                                                      values

                                                       reduction of co2
                                                       emissions                 set for each company in consideration
                                                       (manufacturing            of national policy on co2 reduction
                                                       companies outside         targets, etc., in each country.
                                                       japan)

                                                                                 attainment of zero emissions
                                                                                 *   definition: no incineration of
                                                                                     industrial waste generated by
                                                                                     domestic manufacturing facilities,
                                                                                     as well as no incineration or landfill
                                   resource
                                                                                     for new construction sites.
                                   consumption,
                                                       attainment of zero        *   target units:                                              achieve zero
                                   resource                                                                                    89.3%
                                                       emissions                     housing division, sumitomo                                 emissions
                                   recycling, and
                                                                                     forestry landscaping co., ltd.
                                   industrial waste
                                                                                     (residential landscaping), sumirin
                                                                                     sash co., ltd., sumikyo co., ltd,
                                                                                     sumikyo wintec co., ltd.,
                                                                                     sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.,
                                                                                     sumirin agro-products co., ltd.

                                   resource
                                   consumption,
                                                       promotion and
                                   resource                                      percentage of certified forests in newly
                                                       expansion of                                                            100%             100%
                                   recycling,                                    acquired forests managed by the group
                                                       sustainable forests
                                   biodiversity, and
                                   others
forestry &         forestry &
environment        environment                         establishment of          implement monitoring surveys in
division           department                          forestry                  company-owned forests (collect and                             4 out of 4
                                                       management that           review fundamental materials:                                  locations
                                                                                                                               4 out of 4
                                   biodiversity, and   enables both              2008-2011).                                   locations
                                   others              preservation and                                                                         set specific
                                                                                                                               (cumulative)
                                                       conservation of           from 2012, set specific numeric                                numeric targets
                                                       biodiversity and          targets by region based on comparative                         from 2012.
                                                       forestry businesses       analysis of data collected.

                   international   resource                                      percentage of certified timber handled
                                                       increase sustainable                                                    products         products
                   marketing       consumption,                                  and percentage of plantation timber
                                                       timber handled                                                          88%              95%
                   department      and biodiversity                              handled.

                                   global warming,
                   timber and                          increase utilization of
                                   resource
                   building                            environmentally           volume of environmentally sound               4,039 ecocute    6,000 ecocute
                                   consumption,
                   materials                           sound building            building materials handled                    units            units
                                   and resource
                   department                          materials
                                   recycling
timber &
building           sumitomo
                                   resource                                                                                    log              log
materials          forestry
                                   consumption,        promote use of                                                          479,000 m 3      1,300,000 m 3
division and       wood                                                          volume of japanese timber handled
                                   and global          japanese timber                                                         lumber           lumber
major affiliated   products co.,
                                                                                                                                            3
                                   warming                                                                                     262,000 m        500,000 m 3
companies          ltd.

                   sumitomo
                   forestry
                   crest co.,      resource                                      green procurement rate
                   ltd.            consumption,        promote use of            (compliance with sumitomo forestry
                                                                                                                               81%              100%
                   (kashima/       and global          sustainable timber        timber procurement standards)
                   shizuoka/       warming                                       (m 3 basis)
                   niihama
                   plants)




                                                                             138                                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                   environmental report > environmental vision




                                        area of
                                                           basic strategy
      unit         responsible     environmental                                                                                                    fy2014
                                                            (objectives)                                                           fy2011
                                        impact                                    evaluation metrics / targeted values                             targeted
                                                                                                                                   results
                                                                                                                                                      values

                                                       expand use of
                                                       sustainable raw
                                   resource
                   overseas                            materials
                                   consumption,                                   percentage of sustainable timber used
                   resources &                         *   sustainable raw
                                   resource                                       for wooden raw materials                     94%              100%
                   manufacturing                           materials:
                                   recycling, and                                 (total for npil, alpine, kti, rpi, fsw)
                   department                              plantation timber,
                                   biodiversity
                                                           certified timber,
overseas
                                                           and waste wood
business
division and
                                                                                  percentage of houses sold that meet
major affiliated
                                   resource                                       certain environmental standards (total
companies
                                   consumption,                                   for sfc homes, paragon, dsh,
                   overseas
                                   resource            promote                    henley)
                   housing &                                                                                                   percentage:      percentage:
                                   recycling, and      environmentally            *   certain environmental standards:
                   real estate                                                                                                 96%              90%
                                   living              friendly housing               north america, australia: standards
                   department
                                   environments                                       in each country
                                   (others)                                           china, south korea: company's
                                                                                      own standards

                   building
                   materials
                   procurement
                                   global warming,
                   & logistics
                                   resource
                   department                          promote and expand         percentage of japanese timber used in
                                   consumption,
                   marketing                           the use of japanese        all products (based on the total volume      55%              70%
                                   resource
                   strategy                            timber                     of timber used)
                                   recycling, and
                   department
                                   others
                   product
                   development
                   department

                                   resource
housing            residential                         promotion of
                                   consumption,                                   percentage of housing units using
division and       property                            environmentally                                                         100% (310 out
                                   resource                                       next-generation energy-conservation                           100%
major affiliated   development                         symbiotic property                                                      of 310 houses)
                                   recycling, and                                 standards (base: construction starts)
companies          department                          development
                                   global warming

                                   biodiversity, and
                   sumitomo                            promotion of
                                   living
                   forestry                            residential greening       no. of garden vegetation species that
                                   environments                                                                                22,246 trees     35,000 trees
                   landscaping                         that is considerate to     are native to the region
                                   (residential
                   co., ltd.                           biodiversity
                                   greening)

                                   resource
                   sumitomo
                                   consumption,
                   forestry                            promotion of re-use        number of sumstock house
                                   resource                                                                                    19 units         12 units
                   home service                        of housing                 transactions
                                   recycling, and
                   co., ltd.
                                   industrial waste




                                                                                139                                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                       environmental report > environmental management




env ironmental management system


env ironmental management structure

with the goal of contributing to the creation of a sustainable society, all companies in the sumitomo forestry
group base their activities on environmental policies created by the company. based on this and in
accordance with the relevant business activities of each division and department, a system is in place with
the president at its head to progress environmentally sound business activities within the group.
sumitomo forestry group companies create and manage environmental budgets, including affiliated
companies that are outside of the scope of iso14001 certification.




                                                   140                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           environmental report > environmental management


   iso14001 certification

iso14001-certified organizations




in fiscal 1995, sumitomo forestry adopted an environmental management system (ems), and in fiscal 1997,
its housing division was the first organization in japan's housing industry to acquire iso14001 certification. in
fiscal 2002, the certification was upgraded to encompass the entire company. efforts were taken to extend
this certification to group companies, and by the end of fiscal 2011, three companies were included in the
integrated iso14001 certification: sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd.; sumitomo forestry home
service co., ltd.; and sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.

companies that have also obtained iso14001 certification independent of the group-wide integrated
iso14001 certification are: alpine mdf industries pty ltd. (alpine); nelson pine industries ltd. (npil)
(http://www.nelsonpine.co.nz/); pt. kutai timber indonesia (kti) (http://www.kti.co.id/); pt. rimba partikel
indonesia (rpi); and pt. ast indonesia (ast).



                                                       141                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           environmental report > environmental management


 audits by external certification bodies

policy & plans
iso14001 certification reviews are conducted annually and renewal examinations are held every three years
by external certification bodies.


results
in fiscal 2011, the company underwent a surveillance review. the audit indicated one minor area of irregularity
and also recommended 14 proposals for improvement. this minor irregularity and proposals were studied by
the relevant departments, which decided on appropriate actions to take, and internal environmental audits
were conducted to determine the effectiveness of initiatives.

  link in this report: “preventing air pollution” (p.148)




     although your response to this issue was excellent, i thought you could have explained your
     response in a little more detail, including diagrams. (other stakeholder)


 internal env ironmental audits

policy & plans
different departments of group companies conduct audits of each other to reliably and efficiently advance
environmental conservation efforts. employees are qualified as internal environmental auditors by passing an
examination upon completion of a training course held in-house. the results of internal audits are reported to
management, which prescribes improvements as needed.


results
in fiscal 2011, 81 departments conducted internal environmental audits. the group’s internal environmental
auditors evaluated initiatives, proposed improvements, and checked compliance frameworks. in the fiscal year
under review, two training courses were administered to certify internal environmental auditors. as of the end
of fiscal 2011, a total of 1,192 employees including 446 from group companies have qualified as such
auditors.




                                                        142                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                              environmental report > environmental management



the main items on the sumitomo forestry group’s environmental management yearly schedule

                                    environmental budget                                                                iso14001

                                                                                         internal-company notifications about the management
 april
                                                                                         review*
                    report summarizing the results in the previous
 may                full fiscal year

 june

 july                                                                                    audit by an external certification body

                    report summarizing the results in the first fiscal                   internal-company notification of the results of the
 august
                    quarter                                                              external audit

 september

 october                                                                                 training course for internal environmental auditors
                    report summarizing the results in the first half of
 november
                    the fiscal year
                                                                                         arrangement of the internal environmental audit and the
 december
                                                                                         corrective actions
 january
                    preparing the report for the next fiscal year
 february           report summarizing the results in the third fiscal
                    quarter
 march                                                                                   management review


note: the president confirms that the group’s environmental management system is functioning correctly; specifically, that the organizational objectives are
        appropriate for the actual conditions and that the results are in-line with objectives. then, if required, the president indicates the necessary
        improvements to be carried out.




                                                                                 143                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           environmental report > environmental management




  promoting env ironmental education and training

   policy & plans

the company conducts environmental education programs to foster awareness of environmental issues
among employees and to encourage them to take action of their own accord.

   results

environmental email new sletter
sumitomo forestry sends an email newsletter on environmental
topics to all employees once, sometimes twice, a month and also
posts in-depth information on an intranet portal for environmental
understanding. the portal encourages employees to educate
themselves about the environment through a wide array of
information, ranging from familiar environmental topics to expert
knowledge.
                                                                                  intranet environment portal
internal training
during training for new employees joining the company, they are given a lecture on the group's environmental
initiatives. in addition to this, they are taken on a training trip to the besshiyama company-owned forest in the
city of niihama, ehime prefecture. they are provided an opportunity to think about the environment while
experiencing a regenerated forest firsthand. the company also gives lectures on proper treatment and
recycling to employees in charge of industrial waste, and provides technical environmental education, including
courses to train internal iso14001 environmental auditors.

establishing an education & training department in the housing division and providing
e-learning
the company has been strengthening its system for improving employee capabilities. in april 2011, it
established the training & education department, which was tasked with providing practical education and
training to improve the skills of employees in the housing division.
as part of a series of training programs, each year it runs an e-learning course for all employees that have
joined the housing division in the last three years. the aim of the course is to reinforce the fundamental
knowledge required of housing sales personnel, and content ranges from general topics to specific initiatives
on the environment underway at the company. in addition, practically every month it runs a comprehensive
training course for manager-level home-sales employees. within these courses during fiscal 2011,
environmental topics were included in the training content on seven occasions; the goal is for a “trickle-down
effect” to increase awareness of environmental issues from management down to personnel at the lower
levels.


                                                       144                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                            environmental report > environmental management




 efforts to reduce env ironmental risks


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry identifies important environmental risks relating to its business activities, such as risks
associated with industrial waste, soil contamination, and illegal logging, and develops appropriate
countermeasures. in particular, the sumitomo forestry group regards industrial waste from its various
business activities as its most serious environmental risk, and accordingly continues to ensure proper
disposal.


   results

in fiscal 2011, there were no significant violations of any environment-related laws or ordinances.


 proper treatment of industrial waste


   policy & plans

it is said that approximately 70% of illegally dumped industrial waste in japan is construction waste. the
sumitomo forestry group makes sure it disposes of waste in an appropriate and responsible manner. the
company has reviewed its management systems, appointed personnel in charge of industrial waste treatment,
provided training in industrial waste for those newly appointed to this position, and carried out voluntary
compliance audits concerning industrial waste at each company as well as comprehensive site inspections of
intermediate treatment plants at third parties on a regular basis.


   results

electronic manifest system monitors conditions at industrial waste processors
all of the waste treatment contractors working with the housing division's branches and new housing
construction sites have adopted electronic manifest systems (jwnet). during fiscal 2011, 99.9% of all
manifests, including those for housing demolition waste, were electronic.

acquisition of permits as industrial waste processors
group companies sumirin agro-products co., ltd’s asuka plant and the sakura plant and japan bio energy
co., ltd obtained permits to operate as intermediary industrial waste disposal companies, and started
operations. related laws and regulations state that companies have a responsibility to circulate manifests and
store records after intermediary processing even if secondary treatment and residual landfill disposal does not
occur. the sumitomo forestry group appropriately processes industrial wastes which are generated from its
own manufacturing activities, and industrial wastes from consignment waste treatment services to other
companies.
                                                       145                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                        environmental report > environmental management



           company name                                                                          outline

                                                ・ intermediary processing (fermentation) of water purification cake 1 generated from
sumirin agro-products co., ltd.                    water purification plants
asuka plant / sakura plant                      ・ processed water purification cake is used as a raw material of tsuchitaro,
                                                   seedling growing media for agriculture and horticulture2.

                                                ・ intermediary processing (shredding) of construction wood waste, prunings,
                                                   thinnings, waste pallets and other wood waste
japan bio energy co., ltd.
                                                ・ wood chips from the shredded waste are delivered nearby to kawasaki biomass
                                                   electric power co., ltd., where it is used as a fuel for power generation.


1 water purification cake is desiccated, hardened fine-grained soil remnants produced by water purification plants during the processing of natural river and
   lake water.
2 use of the water purification cake from the sakura plant of sumirin agro-products co., ltd. has been suspended, as following the accident at the nuclear
   power plant caused by the great east japan earthquake of march 11, 2011, the levels of radiation detected in soil collected from near to the adjacent water
   purification plant exceeded the level considered safe.


going forward, soil testing will continue and use of the purification cake will remain suspended until the
samples have returned to safe levels.


   future plans

the sumitomo forestry group will continue to ensure proper disposal of industrial waste by carrying out
independent audits of industrial waste processing and management at the division and company levels and by
inspecting disposal sites.
in addition, it will continue with the gradual shift to the e-manifest ‘jwnet,’ including at divisions other than the
housing division and also at group companies.




      the descriptions of environmental risk and the measures to address this risk were easy to
      understand. (employee）



 prev enting the use of illegally logged timber


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry performs checks of all overseas suppliers of logs, timber, and wood products to confirm
legal compliance and to ensure that the group does not handle any illegally logged timber. to improve reliability,
the group sends local sumitomo forestry representatives and inspectors to visit logging sites and confirm
compliance when necessary.




                                                                            146                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           environmental report > environmental management


   results

all wood suppliers passed legal checks
surveys conducted over the three years from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2009 show the company achieved 100%
compliance for all timber directly imported from overseas suppliers. in fiscal 2011, in accordance with the
action plan, which is based on timber procurement philosophy and policy, the sumitomo forestry group is
continuing to confirming legal compliance, including for new suppliers, in order to maintain 100% compliance for
all directly imported timber and wood products. from fiscal 2012, the company conducts a csr survey at all of
its overseas business partners, which will encompass such topics as human rights and labor practices. in
addition, from fiscal 2012 and based on requests from its client paper manufacturing companies, it has
independently launched an initiative to confirm the legality of the wood chips that it handles within japan.
these wood chips include in their raw materials industrial waste other than japanese timber and also imported
timber.

  link in this report: “action plan for timber procurement” (p.20)



 countermeasures against soil contamination


   policy & plans

soil contamination is difficult to discover because unseen contaminants can build up in places underground
over a wide area. since there is the potential risk of soil contamination in various places at businesses that
buy and sell land, rent and lease land, and handle chemical substances, the sumitomo forestry group has
standardized procedures for inspecting soil contamination prior to the purchase of new land in the spec home
business, in addition to soil contamination countermeasures for land owned and managed by the company.


   results

management of guidebook on soil contamination risk countermeasures
in april 2010, the revised soil contamination countermeasures act was enacted, increasing the frequency of
inspections and notifications for soil contamination. a more diverse range of soil contamination problems are
likely to be discovered as a result. in response, sumitomo forestry created the guidebook on soil
contamination risk countermeasures in fiscal 2010 as a basic tool for countering the risk of soil
contamination and then released a revised version in april 2011. using this revised guidebook as a baseline
reference, the sumitomo forestry group will take specific and effective action to address the risk of soil
contamination, with any actions actually carried out being guided by the advice of designated investigative
organizations and government agencies with expert knowledge.

voluntary soil cleanup at sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd’s kashima plant
in fiscal 2008, sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd's kashima plant conducted a soil contamination survey on its
grounds as a voluntary initiative. as a result, the groundwater was found to slightly exceed the standards set
for volatile organic compound (voc) contamination.
the plant cleaned up the soil in fiscal 2009. subsequent analysis of water samples in november 2011 found no
values exceeding the relevant standard and to be below the measurement threshold.




                                                       147                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           environmental report > environmental management



 countermeasures against water pollution


  policy & plans

at facilities designated under the stipulations of the water pollution control law, the company conducts
regular water quality surveys of discharged water, and strictly manages quality in accordance with baseline
values.


  results

the water pollution control law was revised in may 2010, establishing fines for improper recordkeeping of
pollution measurements for discharged water, and others. it also obligates companies to take measures
necessary to prevent water pollution caused by sewage and effluent. the sumitomo forestry group has
thoroughly complied with this revised law and taken measures to address water pollution.

  link in this report: “effluent water quality survey results (p.223)



 appropriately managing and reducing the use of hazardous chemical materials


sumitomo forestry group endeavors to identify, appropriately manage, and reduce the amount of hazardous
chemical materials used and emitted in its business operations. in november 2008, the pollutant release and
transfer register (prtr) act was revised, including the target substances that must be identified by the
emitted or transported amount beginning in fiscal 2010. the sumitomo forestry group reports to the
authorities in compliance with the revised law.

  internal link: “management of hazardous materials” (p.221)



 prev enting air pollution


  policy & plans

at facilities equipped with boilers, which are compliant with the air pollution control law, emissions and
concentrations of nox, sox, and soot and dust are regularly measured to ensure that strict compliance with
concentration standards is maintained.
the revised air pollution control act of may 2010 established a system of fines for violations to the legal
requirement of recording and reporting of measurements of pollution levels, such as the volume of smoke and
soot emitted. in addition, the revised law prescribed the legal requirements of those responsible for
“implementing the measures required to control emissions of smoke and soot.” the sumitomo forestry group
is working to ensure compliance with the revised law and is implementing measures to prevent air pollution.


  results

the iso14001 surveillance review conducted by an external certification body in fiscal 2011 indicated one
slight area of irregularity, which was at the sumitomo forestry crest’s niihama plant. a vent had become
blocked, which resulted in dust concentrations in a waste wood boiler exceeding the legally designated level.
despite this being recorded and reported, there was a delay in reporting it to the supervising department.
the company examined the measures implemented in response to the review’s indication and confirmed
whether or not their implementation was appropriate.

                                                       148                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           environmental report > environmental management


   future plans

the review conducted by an external certification body in fiscal 2011 indicated one slight area of irregularity at
the sumitomo forestry crest’s niihama plant. in response, the plant immediately reported on this irregularity in
accordance with the prescribed reporting route, conducted an inspection and took measurements to determine
the optimum combustion conditions to minimize the generation of smoke, and is currently preparing an
operations manual, which up to the present time has not been completed. in addition, during fiscal 2012 it
completed work to repair the blocked boiler vent and intends to re-measure dust concentrations in the near
future.

  link in this report: “amount of air pollutant emitted (p.223)
  link in this report: “audits by external certification bodies” (p.142)



  reducing inconv enience to local residents


   policy & plans

the company makes efforts to prevent noise and vibrations during construction of houses to reduce
inconvenience to nearby residents.


   results

development of masking method for improved sound insulation
sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. has developed a method that suppresses noise generated during
renovation projects. noise levels are reduced with the use of a soundproof and insulating masking sheet made
of layers of special noise-masking felt and a special coating film. this new method provides customers with a
higher level of comfort when living at home during a renovation.

  link to the news release: “masking method for improved sound insulation”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110215.pdf)




                                                       149                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                             environmental report > environmental management




  promoting green purchasing


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry promotes its offices to conduct green purchasing—the priority purchasing of products that
have a low environmental impact. office product and company vehicle purchasing guidelines were
established in 2006, laying down a clear set of standards for progressing with green purchasing. high
fuel-efficiency vehicles have been selected based on group standards to be the standard model vehicles
leased and operated by group companies, and the changeover to these vehicles is progressing gradually. the
re-evaluation of these standard model vehicles will be conducted at least once a year from the perspective of
both cost and environmental considerations.


   results

company-ow ned vehicle initiatives
the share of standard models among new vehicles leased was 87.8% in fiscal 2011, making the share of high
fuel-efficiency vehicles among the group’s total vehicles leased, including existing vehicles, 62.7% as of
march 2012, an improvement over the previous fiscal year. in march 2012, a re-evaluation of the standard
model vehicles was conducted, as set forth in the guidelines. following this re-evaluation, in addition to hybrid
vehicles on its list of models to be used as fleet cars, it included a highly fuel efficient gasoline powered
vehicle, which is now called the third eco car, to its list.

moreover, the group is switching over to dunlop enasave ec202 high fuel-efficient tires for its group-owned
vehicles (all passenger vehicles except freight vehicles).

office supplies procurement initiatives
the group’s green purchasing ratio in fiscal 2011 was 71.8%, an improvement on the 69.8% in fiscal 2010.




                                                         150                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                    environmental report > balance of input and output




  env ironmental impact of business activ ities




1 gigajoules




                                              151               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                          environmental report > balance of input and output



  env ironmental impact from the construction of a new house




1 megajoules




    all the data on environmental impacts is on a single year basis, so it is impossible to know how it
    compares to the previous year. (customer)




                                                      152                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                     environmental report > balance of input and output




 life cycle assessments


   policy & plans

the sumitomo forestry group has been carrying out life cycle assessments (lca) since fiscal 2006 to identify
the environmental impact of all of its business activities. lca is a method of comprehensively evaluating the
environmental impacts of a product throughout its life cycle, including raw material procurement, manufacture,
transportation, sale, use, re-use and disposal, and is carried out with the cooperation of tokyo university of
agriculture and technology.


   results

launch of display of carbon footprint of products1
pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi) conducts lca surveys for the particle
board (pb) it manufactures and sells, from production and transportation
of the raw materials through to manufacturing of the product. based on the
results of these surveys, in october 2009, rpi began voluntarily
displaying carbon footprint of products on its pb. this marks the first time
that an indonesian company has labeled timber products, and in both 2010
and 2011, 90% of products were labeled. rpi’s products make effective
use of resources, using wood leftover from logging, wood waste, and
timber from company-owned plantations. further, rpi’s products are
manufactured using low carbon emission methods, including the use of
electricity from a wood biomass power generation facility.

1 greenhouse gases emitted during the entire life cycle of the product and service, from procurement of
   raw materials to disposal and recycling are converted to co2 to present the data in a more                carbon footprint labels on particle
   understandable manner.
                                                                                                                             boards




                                                                          153                                    sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                         environmental report > balance of input and output


comparison of carbon footprints of products before and after installation of wood biomass power generation facility
  (pb manufactured by rpi)




2 for the purpose of this comparison, density=0.68g/cm 3 is converted into ton to equalize the base units.
3 source: abstracts of papers presented at the 2nd meeting of the institute of life cycle assessment, japan (march 2007).
note: calculated based on jan.-dec. 2010 results


inventory analysis4 of housing materials
in fiscal 2007, sumitomo forestry carried out an inventory analysis of structural plywood, staircases and
countertops to raise the accuracy of lca for a single house (single product.) the analysis demonstrated that
structural plywood made from japanese timber emitted less co2 from procurement, transportation and
processing than imported timber. in fiscal 2011, it began inventory inspections for when wood was used to
produce sashes, siding, and heat insulating materials.

4 analysis of the input (energy, materials, etc.) and output (gas emissions, waste, etc.) of a product over its life cycle, from manufacture to disposal.


creation of lca database related to harvesting & transportation of logs
a body of inventory data showing the average environmental impact of japanese logs has now been
accumulated. utilizing this data and with the goal of acquiring fundamental knowledge on methods to reduce the
environmental impact of japanese logs, in fiscal 2011 sumitomo forestry collaborated with the dr. hattori’s
laboratory in the graduate school of the tokyo university of agriculture and technology to conduct an
inventory analysis of the production of japanese logs.


     environmental impact assessment of japanese timber – a case study of the
     production of resources

     1. background
          timber has been established to be a highly environmentally sound material. processing
          timber requires the consumption of a smaller amount of energy than its alternatives, it is a
          renewable resource, and the carbon dioxide that is emitted when it is incinerated is
          considered to be carbon neutral.1 however, there is only a limited number of inventory
          analyses of timber compared to its alternatives, and there is a lack of reliable and established
          data. therefore, it is difficult to find detailed assessments that compare it to other materials.
          when conducting an analysis of timber, it is vital to have inventory data on logs, but the
          situation in japan is that there are only a small number of research examples that can be
          used.



                                                                             154                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                              environmental report > balance of input and output



2. survey outline
 2.1 target of survey
    the survey was conducted in three districts: the monbetsu district, hokkaido; the niihama
    district, ehime prefecture; and the hyuga district, miyazaki prefecture. it was conducted in
    20 locations over an area of 359 hectares, as outlined in table 1.

 2.2 system boundaries
    diagram 1 shows the scope of the boundaries in the survey system.

    table 1: outline of the districts surveyed              figure 1: system boundaries in the inventory analysis
                  number       area of                                of japanese timber

                    of          forest      survey
         area
                  survey      surveyed       period
                  items       (hectares)

                                           oct 2006～
     monbetsu             8       193.5
                                             feb 2007

                                            may 2003～
        niihama           5        98.7
                                                 dec 2004

                                           oct 2007～
        hyuga             7        66.8
                                             jan 2009

                                            may 2003～
         total           20       359.0
                                                 jan 2009



    at monbetsu, thinning was carried out at all locations, mainly on larch trees. at niihama,
    selected thinning2 on tree groups was carried out at one location and thinning at four
    locations. at hyuga, thinning was carried out at three locations and clearing at four
    locations.

 2.3 survey method
    the base unit in the inventory analysis was set as 1m3 of logs.
    ・ foreground data: data was collected at work sites via a questionnaire for recording
        volumes consumed, including the volume of light diesel oil.
    ・ background data: the idea inventory database, which is installed with the milca3 lca
        support system, was used.
    ・ impact assessment method: the japanese version of the life-cycle impact assessment
        method ver.2 (lime2) was used.

3. results (summary)
   1)    the majority of emissions generated in the production process of japanese timber are
         created during harvesting operations.
   2)    the volume of co2 emissions during harvesting operations may differ due to the effects
         of the ‘work system,' ‘the harvest material per area where harvest operations are
         conducted,' and ‘the party conducting the operations.'
   3)    it was calculated that 1m2 of japanese logs generates 10.1kg of co2 emissions.
   4)    it was calculated that the cost to society4 to produce 1m2 of japanese logs is in the
         range of 41 yen to 57 yen.


                                                        155                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                           environmental report > balance of input and output



the data suggests that a work system using high performance forestry machinery generates
more co2 emissions in the production of japanese logs than a work system that uses
conventional forestry machinery. as a result, in order to reduce the volume of co2 emissions
generated during harvesting operations, it is important to improve the efficiency of the use of
high performance forestry machinery and to limit their fuel consumption.

   notes / literature
    1 dr. akira hattori (2005): the institute of life cycle assessment (lca) japan academic journal、1 (1) 、34-35
    2 a forestry method that avoids rapid changes to the environment by harvesting only a small amount of trees in each harvest.
    3 japan environmental management association for industry: lca support system “milca”
    4 the hidden monetary impact that a product has on society during its life, resulting from its environmental impact.




                                                               156                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                       environmental report > balance of input and output




  contribution to expanding carbon stocks


    policy & plans

as trees grow, they absorb co2 from the atmosphere and sequester it as carbon (carbon stock). trees
continue to store carbon, even after being harvested and processed into products and co2 is only released
when the wooden materials are eventually incinerated.
when mature trees are harvested and used as building materials, the carbon sequestered in the trees is
stored for a long period of time. this is the reason bedhind that building wooden houses almost means creating
forests in the city.

the sumitomo forestry group promotes the use of timber from sustainably managed forests in the
construction of its high-quality, long-lasting wood houses and for the wooden building materials it uses. the
group also encourages the active use of timber. mocca (wood use integration) operations 1. aim to expand
the applications of timber and promote its wider use, which in turn increases timber-based carbon stocks and
helps to curb global warming.

1 the collective term for all businesses within the group that aim to expand the use of timber through promoting wooden construction and the use of timber.



    results

carbon stock of the timber in company-ow ned forests in japan
in fiscal 2012, the carbon stocks of company-owned forests in japan was equivalent to about 10.74 million
tons of co2,

   link in this report: “conservation and sustainable use of timber resources” (p.189)

carbon stock of the timber used in housing construction
in fiscal 2011, the carbon stocks of the sumitomo forestry group’s timber used for housing construction was
equivalent to about 203,000 tons of co2, (for 9,007 houses) roughly the amount of co2 emitted by
approximately 40,000 households over one year.

increasing the carbon stock through promoting the use of w ood
against the backdrop of the enactment in october 2010 of the act for promotion of use of wood in public
buildings, the applications for timber, particularly japanese timber, are expected to increase in the future. with
this situation in mind, in april 2011 the company established the mocca (wood use integration) department.
centered on the activities of this department, the sumitomo forestry group is working to promote the use of
wood and thereby increase the carbon stock from timber and contribute to efforts to combat global warming.




                                                                            157                                     sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                    environmental report > tackling climate change




 climate change and sumitomo forestry’s role


   policy & plans

climate change resulting from global warming is a serious environmental problem facing the planet. the 17th
conference of the parties (cop17) to the united nations framework convention on climate change adopted
the durban agreement, with the goal of holding down the increase in global average temperature below 2 °c or
1.5 °c above pre-industrial levels. japan announced that it would not take part in the kyoto protocol's second
commitment period, but it seems to be inevitable that it will have to review its position following its international
commitment to meet the target established at the 2009 summit conference of the leading industrialized
nations, of reducing total greenhouse gases by 25% compared to 1990 by 2020.

given that the household sector accounts for about 14.4%1 of japan’s total co2 emissions, as a housing
provider the sumitomo forestry group has a major role to play in reducing co2 emissions that result from
home living. it will make a positive contribution to the prevention of global warming by reducing co2 emissions
from its business activities while facilitating absorption or storage of co2 through proper forest management
and the promotion of group operations that encourage greater use of timber resources through the structural
application and incorporation of wood.

1 from data on japan’s emissions of greenhouse gasses from greenhouse gas inventory office refer to the fiscal 2010 share of co 2 emissions
   according to category (indirect emissions)




      the initiatives being conducted by sumitomo forestry for the risks anticipated from climate
      change are concrete and left a good impression on me. (student)




                                                                       158                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                            environmental report > tackling climate change



 impact of climate change on the business


risks presented by climate change
 among those countries in which the sumitomo forestry group has business sites, japan, australia and new
 zealand are bound by the terms of the kyoto protocol, which established greenhouse gas reduction targets
 to be achieved by fiscal 2012. as a result, there is a risk that the regulations and tax systems could be
 tightened in these countries.
 in july 2012, australia introduced a carbon pricing system (carbon-emissions tax) and plans to move to an
 emissions trading system in 2015. china and indonesia are also both currently investigating introducing the
 same system, which is expected to have an effect on the activities of companies with business sites in
 these countries.
 given that sumitomo forestry uses wood as a natural raw material, the depletion of timber resources or
 changes in forestland resulting from climate change could impact on the procurement of raw materials. in
 addition, the growth of company-owned forests could be affected by strong wind and heavy rain damage or
 changes in ecosystems resulting from climate change.
 as demands to disclose greenhouse gas countermeasures further increase, it may become necessary to
 gather wide-ranging information along the whole supply chain, beyond the scope that is identifiable within the
 company, in order to address these demands.
 at sites in new zealand and elsewhere where hydroelectric power generation is used, there is the risk that
 energy supply could be disrupted by climatic factors and the level of precipitation.


opportunities presented by climate change
 using the kyoto mechanisms established by the kyoto protocol, there is an opportunity to create credits
 through cdm projects.
   link in this report: “cdm business using wood biomass power generation” (p.232)

 in housing construction, sumitomo forestry aims to differentiate itself from its competitors through full
 compliance with energy conservation standards at the high level, and also by supplying life cycle carbon
 minus (lccm) houses and other products with outstanding performance and equipment to generate and
 store energy.
   link in this report: “developing of life cycle carbon minus (lccm) homes” (p.171)

 climate change generates opportunities such as promoting forest growth and developing untapped
 resources, and the company believes this leads to new business opportunities, including discovering new
 suppliers.




    recently we have witnessed many examples of abnormal weather, so i think our ability to
    respond to such events is going to be tested. (customer)




                                                     159                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                          environmental report > tackling climate change




  fy2011 co 2 emission results


sumitomo forestry group: fy2011 co2 emission volume




trend in direct emissions




note: co2 emission volumes are for the entire group in each fiscal year.
note: sumitomo forestry offsets its co2 emissions from offices, which were 1,590 tons in fy2010 and 2,542 tons in fy2011, by utilizing the forest-absorption
      credits issued under the j-ver system.




                                                                           160                                     sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                          environmental report > tackling climate change




 sumitomo forestry group co 2 emission volume reduction targets


   policy & plans

in december 2009, the sumitomo forestry group updated its co2 emissions reduction targets and
implemented initiatives to meet these new targets. from april 2011, in addition to setting units for each plant,
the company newly established a “per sales unit” for targets so that it could manage the progress toward
achieving co2 emissions targets at all subsidiaries in manufacturing businesses in japan in an integrated
manner.


     medium-term environmental management plan: co2 total emission volume
     reduction targets

     offices                           ： by fy2010, achieve a 12% reduction in overall emissions compared
                                          with fy2006, and maintain this level to 2014
     subsidiaries in                   ： by fy2014, achieve an 8% reduction in the per sales unit compared
     manufacturing                        with fy2006
     businesses in japan                  each plant independently sets the base units for targets. in addition,
                                          as a method of collectively managing progress toward achieving
                                          targets, the plants also use the rate of reduction of total co2
                                          emissions from the base year of fy2006.
     subsidiaries in                   ： set targets for each plant in consideration of local laws and
     manufacturing                        regulations, including overall emissions, emissions per unit sold, and /
     businesses outside of                or other targets as appropriate to each plant
     japan


   results

offices

                                   fy2006
                                                        fy2007              fy2008               fy2009              fy2010           fy2011
                                (base year)

emissions at offices                    36,403               36,857              34,841               33,403               34,052         32,558
(t-co2)                                                    (+1.2％)               (-4.3％)             (-8.2％)               (-6.5％)      (-10.6％)


note: figures in brackets indicate the percentage change compared with fy2006
note: the figures are aligned with the organization in the base year (fy2006) in order to manage progress toward targets




                                                                           161                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                             environmental report > tackling climate change



  following the earthquake in fiscal 2011, group companies within japan initiated a range of power saving
  measures, and as a result they were able to significantly reduce the amount of electricity and thereby cut
  their co2 emissions. however, as the group was unable to make similar progress with initiatives to reduce
  its usage of gasoline, the overall reduction was 10.6%, which was below the target.

subsidiaries in manufacturing businesses in japan

                                 fy2006
                                                     fy2007              fy2008         fy2009        fy2010            fy2011
                               (base year)

 subsidiaries in
 manufacturing
                                        188.8              210.9                221.1       231.6           234.1             217.4
 businesses in japan,
                                                       (+11.7％)            (+17.1％)      (+22.7％)       (+24.1％)          (+15.2％)
 per sales unit (tons of
 co2 / mil. yen)


note: figures in brackets indicate the percentage change compared with fy2006


  although there are differences between individual plants, sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. reduced its total
  co2 emissions year-on-year through initiatives to reduce the maximum instantaneous consumption of
  electricity at sites including its kashima plant. at the same time, it also improved its base unit performance
  from the previous year. however, its overall result fell well below the target as compared to the base year,
  due to an increase in its production line compared to the base year, and also because some of the
  komatsujima plant’s machinery was transferred to the kyushu plant following the sale of the komatsujima
  plant.

subsidiaries in manufacturing businesses outside japan
  co2 emissions at pt. kutai timber indonesia (kti) and fuxin sumirin wood products co., ltd. increased
  along with an improvement in their productivity. however, the overall total decreased due to a decline in
  productivity at alpine mdf industries pty ltd. (alpine).
  the biomass power generation system introduced at pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi) to reduce co2
  emissions is operating roughly as hoped, and the company reduced its emissions year-on-year.
  at overseas plants, targets are set on a per-plant basis according to the conditions in each country and
  each is carrying out initiatives to reduce emissions according to base units. as a result, in companies such
  as alpine, rpi, and pt. sinar rimba pasifik (srp), improvements can be seen based on the units that they
  have independently established.

co2 emissions data and base unit emission results for each plant inside and outside japan are shown in the
environmental data.

  link in this report: “environmental data” (p.239)


   future plans

the group is continuing to implement initiatives toward achieving the co2 emissions targets established in the
medium term environmental management plan. in addition to thoroughly implementing power saving measures,
its offices are working to reduce emissions by measures to further cut their use of gasoline and other fossil
fuels.




                                                                        162                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                             environmental report > tackling climate change




     i want sumitomo forestry to keep developing initiatives worldwide. i believe that these initiatives
     will definitely have a positive impact on people in different countries. (management consultant)



  reducing co 2 emissions from offices


   policy & plans

in order to reduce the co2 generated by offices, the sumitomo forestry group sets common targets across all
group companies and continues to advance its efforts.


   results

initiatives to reduce gasoline consumption
the sumitomo forestry group in japan promotes ‘eco-driving’ among its employees, encouraging them to
participate in external training courses such as the eco training course run by the japan automobile
federation (jaf). since fiscal 2009, 16 employees have taken part in this course. in addition, an initiative is
being implemented to reduce gasoline usage, whereby employees using fleet cars record and identify how
much gasoline they use each day in order to drive more efficiently.

use of fuel-efficient tires on company-ow ned vehicles
since fiscal 2009, the company has promoted switching to the dunlop fuel-efficient tire enasave ec202 on
company-owned vehicles used by group companies in japan (all passenger vehicles except freight vehicles).
this is equivalent to an annual reduction of approximately 61,200 liters of gasoline and 143 tons of co2
across all vehicles.

sw itch to fuel-efficient company-ow ned vehicles
in order to reduce gasoline consumption, the company is switching to fuel-efficient vehicles selected based on
group standards. in fiscal 2011, 87.8% of upgraded company-owned vehicles were fuel-efficient vehicles.

adding the “3rd eco car” as the standard model for company-ow ned vehicles
in march 2012, the company released its revised office product and company vehicle purchasing guidelines,
which added the 3rd eco car, which is a highly fuel efficient gasoline powered vehicle, as the group’s standard
model to the list of vehicles to be used by the company, in addition to hybrid vehicles.

implementing the perfect no overtime day
the company implemented the perfect no overtime day in june during the environment month and in
november during family week. on these days after a specific time, all lighting was turned off.


   future plans

the company will work to further reduce its co2 emissions by continuing to replace conventional vehicles in
its fleet with highly fuel efficient vehicles (its standard model).

  link in this report: “promoting green purchasing” (p.150)




                                                          163                        sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                              environmental report > tackling climate change



 implementing power sav ing measures in response to the great east japan earthquake


   policy & plans

the sumitomo forestry group has been pushing ahead with a range of power saving initiatives not only in
response to the electricity shortages that followed the great east japan earthquake, but also from the
perspective of reducing co2 emissions.


   results

responding to the government order limiting the use of electricity
in july 2011, the government issued an order that obliged large-scale users of electricity within the areas of
the tokyo electric power co., inc. or tohoku electric power co., inc. to reduce their electricity consumption by
15% compared to its maximum power usage in fiscal 2010. this applied to the tsukuba research institute and
sumitomo forestry crest co. ltd’s kashima plant, and through measures that included monitoring of peak
usage of electric power through a peak demand controller, shifting the time when the equipments that used the
most electric power were used, and rotating operations on production lines, they succeeded in reducing
electricity usage by more than 15% compared to the peak usage on weekdays.

implementing pow er saving measures throughout the country
responding to the power shortages that followed the great east japan earthquake, from july to september
the company implemented power saving measures at all its sites throughout the country, except for those in
the disaster region, with the goal of reducing power consumption by at least 15% compared to the level in
fiscal 2010. specifically, this involved strict management of lighting and air conditioning in work places to
ensure they were turned off when the area was not in use, controls of lighting and air-conditioner
temperatures, and measures to ensure that all employees were aware of the importance of saving power.
toward this, the weekly email magazine included one or two methods of saving power, while a review of work
styles was also conducted, including adjusting working days and working times. thanks to these efforts, during
the 2011 summer period (june to september) the sumitomo forestry group was able to reduce the amount of
energy it used in the area under the jurisdiction of the tokyo electric power co., inc. and tohoku electric
power co., inc. by 24.3% compared to fiscal 2010 and by 6.3% in other areas. these savings were
equivalent to 1,706 tons of co2 emissions, and moreover the company decided to continue to implement
these power saving measures after the summer of 2011.

energy conservation in model homes and show rooms throughout japan
in response to the electricity shortages that followed the great east japan earthquake, sumitomo forestry
has been turning off advertising boards and other types of external lighting at model homes, tenant offices, and
company offices (roadside branches), and has also introduced green curtains and solar power systems at
some locations.
in addition, in fiscal 2008 it launched a project to switch to environmentally sound lighting at its model homes
and showrooms throughout japan; this has now been completed for the showrooms and is being carried out
sequentially at model homes. since fiscal 2009, the company has maintained its policy of turning off lighting
during weekdays at these locations when there are no customers present.




                                                        164                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                environmental report > tackling climate change


   future plans

at the present time, it is anticipated that electricity demand-supply conditions will continue to be tight in the
near future. based on this situation, in order to reduce the maximum instantaneous consumption of electricity,
from july 1 to september 30 in the summer of 2012, the sumitomo forestry group will implement power saving
measures at offices and business sites at all group companies. the goal is to keep electricity usage to the
lowest possible level and achieve at least a nationwide 15% reduction in electricity consumption compared to
fiscal 2010. specifically, this will entail continuing the initiatives launched in the summer of 2011, such as
ensuring that the lighting and air conditioning is always turned off within business sites when an area is not
being used, adjusting workdays and times, and far-reaching reductions in the use of electrical equipment that
had a lower rate of reduction in the previous fiscal year. improvements will also be implemented at those
group organizations and business sites that have not achieved sufficient power saving results up to the
present time.
sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd., which is among the group of companies designated a large-scale
electricity user, will continue measures at its business sites to reduce electricity consumption, with a particular
focus on the reduction of the maximum instantaneous consumption of electricity during the summer.




     even though something might seem small, making many small steps can have a big impact. many
     households are saving money and energy, and i think this will soon be the norm for offices too.
     (customer)



  reducing co 2 emissions at plants


   policy & plans

pt. rimba partikel indonesia (rpi) is reducing its co2 emissions through its initiative to generate power
through wood biomass. also, pt. kutai timber indonesia’s (kti) particle board plant has cut its co2 emissions
by switching fuel, from light diesel oil to natural gas.


   results

initiatives in new zealand
nelson pine industries ltd. (npil) won the award for excellence in two out of the total nine categories at the
eeca awards 20121, held in may 2012. it was highly evaluated for its achievement in reducing the amount of
wood for fuel and electricity it used through the introduction of two reforms; the improvement of the combustion
efficiency of mdf2 combustion furnaces, and the reduction of wood for fuel as well as the consumption of
electricity by installing a motor system that can save power. these technologies were introduced in april 2010
and they have helped to achieve a reduction in co2 emissions of approximately 19% compared to the level
prior to their introduction. in addition, in comparison to the cost of installing these technologies of
approximately 45 million yen, they save the company about 78 million yen each year in reduced energy costs.
moreover, the judges highly praised these projects for the contributions they make to the environment. npil is
located on the south island, new zealand, which relies almost entirely on hydro-electric plants for its power
supply. therefore, it is prone to power shortages during the winter, when rainfall levels are low but demand is
high due to the cold temperatures. by reducing the amount of power that it consumes, npil is helping to
reduce the burden on the regional energy supply.


                                                           165                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                             environmental report > tackling climate change


1 these major awards are held once a year by the energy efficiency and conservation authority (eeca), which was established by the new zealand
   government for the purpose of promoting energy efficiency, and the event is sponsored by private sector and government institutions. it recognizes
   innovative technologies that achieve exceptional results in the fields of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
2 medium density fiberboard


  link in this report: evaluation by non-group third parties (p.40)

initiatives in indonesia
rpi is using wood biomass to create power and replace its conventional diesel power generation system. it is
reducing its co2 emissions by using the waste timber and sawdust created by sawmills in the vicinity of its
plant as the primary fuel in this system. the united nations’ cdm executive board registered this initiative as
a clean development mechanism (cdm) project in may 2008. in march 2011, it was issued credits (cer) for
its reduction of 10,982 tons of co2 emissions during fiscal 2009, which was its total calculated according to
cdm rules.
rpi’s co2 emissions in fiscal 2011 were 8,125 tons, which is a 48% reduction compared to before it launched
its wood biomass generation project in 2006.

rpi co2 emissions




  link to news release: rimba partikel indonesia acquires indonesia’s first cdm project emission credits
  with wood biomass power (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110427.pdf)
  link in this report: cdm business using wood biomass power generation (p.232)




      i think it will be necessary to remain environmentally aware in the production process, long into
      the future. (student)




                                                                             166                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                               environmental report > tackling climate change



  reducing co 2 emissions from transportation


   policy

the sumitomo forestry group is implementing measures to reduce co2 emissions generated by the
transportation vehicles it uses to carry out its business activities.
the revised energy saving law requires that companies "reduce by more than 1% the average annual energy
consumption basic unit in the medium-to-long term," that they generate from the transportation of goods.
sumitomo forestry and sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. are required to submit a report on this to the
japanese government as a "specified shipper (that transports freight of more than 30 million ton-kilometers 1 a
year)".

1 amount of freight transported (ton-kilometer) = amount of freight (ton) × distance transported (kilometer)



   results

results for fiscal 2011 in response to the revised energy saving law
sumitomo forestry and sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. submitted a report to the japanese government on
its achievements in meeting the requirements of this revised law. in compiling this report, the environmental
management department requested to collect the data and explained its methods of calculating the data,
mainly to the timber & building materials division that is responsible for more than 90% of sumitomo
forestry’s actual results.

results for fiscal 2011

                                         energy usage                                                     energy consumption
                                                                           co2 emissions
                                    (crude oil equivalent)                                                          basic unit2

sumitomo forestry                                         2,391kl                      6,364t-co2                     0.000493kl / m3

sumitomo forestry
                                                          2,328kl                      6,184t-co2          0.000064kl / 1,000 yen
crest co., ltd.


2 calculation of energy cousumption
   sumitomo forestry                      energy： consumption per volume handled
   sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.      energy： consumption per net sales


rationalizing and improving the efficiency of the distribution of home building materials
in fiscal 2007, the company reformed its home building materials logistics system. instead of building materials
being sent individually from their manufacturer to the construction site, it coordinated its nationwide network of
31 relay centers and constructed a logistics system for the consolidated shipment of various building materials
from multiple manufacturers. thanks to this system, in fiscal 2011 the company was able to reduce the co2
emissions by 162,591 delivery vehicle trips compared to before the system was introduced (equivalent to
about 1,441tons of co2). in addition, after the system was launched, it began to reduce the number of delivery
vehicles used per facility. moreover, in order to further reduce co2 emissions generated when transporting
home building materials, in fiscal 2010 it made full use of the expertise in logistics efficiency that it had
acquired up to that time and established home eco logistics co., ltd, which uses the relay centers to make
deliveries. it is responsible for all the group’s housing business logistic operations in japan, and in addition it
provides outsourcer services for the sales logistics of materials manufacturers and deliveries to the
construction sites of other home manufacturers.



                                                                              167                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > tackling climate change


home eco logistics distribution system




   future plans

the company is collaborating with carriers to reduce co2 emissions, such as by measures to improve the
efficiency of loading and distribution. in addition, going forward it, as the owner of goods, plans to verify the
level of co2 emissions in its supply chain from its shipment of goods both within japan and overseas.
initially, home eco logistics co., ltd. delivers homebuilding materials such as fittings, bathroom vanity units
and fitted kitchens, and plans to increase the range of items handled in the future.




     i think that using the relay centers to consolidate materials from multiple suppliers and then send
     them to construction sites as a single shipment is a great way of doing it. (customer)
     it is wonderful that you are minimizing the environmental impact of your model homes and fleet of
     cars. (customer)




                                                        168                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > tackling climate change



 plantation forest operations to offset co 2 emitted by principal structural members from
 harv esting timber to construction of housing

   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry offsets the co2 emissions it generates through harvesting of trees that are used as
principal structural members in its homes to construction (approximately 6 tons per home) by planting trees. in
order to offset the co2 emitted by all the custom-built and spec homes sold during the five-year period
beginning with fiscal 2009, the company plans to plant approximately 1,500,000 trees on 1,500 hectares of
land, and then manage cultivation of the trees for another ten years after planting.
there are two methods of tree plantation, “environmental reforestation,” which aims to regenerate ecosystems
on waste land, and “industrial reforestation,” which aims to both comprehensive forest management and
contribute to regional communities. this initiative is conducted as part of project earth which is promoted by
the group.

   results

environmental reforestation in indonesian national park
between fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2011, the company conducted environmental reforestation on approximately
180 hectares of deforested land in indonesia’s bromo tengger semeru national park east java. in 2010, the
company‘s plantation forest was damaged by the volcanic ash and gases from the eruption of mt. bromo,
which is located within the same national park as the forest. however, for every tree destroyed in the eruption,
it has planted another.

start of regional cooperation-based reforestation in east java village
in fiscal 2010, sumitomo forestry launched a regional cooperation-based industrial reforestation project
centered on supiturang village at the foot of mount semeru in the lumajang regency, east java, indonesia.
part of the profits obtained from harvesting mature trees in this area will be distributed for improving the
lifestyles of the local people, with the remainder of the profits are being used for an initiative to cover the costs
of reforestation and cultivation. the company aims to contribute to the regional society through these
sustainable plantation activities.
environmental reforestation in bromo tengger semeru national park and regional cooperation-based industrial
reforestation had covered a cumulative plantation land area of around 720 hectares by fiscal 2011.

  link in this report: praise and awards from third party organizations (p.40)

   future plans

in fiscal 2012, sumitomo forestry plans to carry out 300 hectares of forest plantation in total, comprising 60
hectares of environmental reforestation in the bromo tengger semeru national park, and 240 hectares of
regional cooperation-based industrial reforestation, which is a continuation from activities of last year. the
cumulative total area of plantation land since fiscal 2009 is expected to reach 1,020 hectares. the company
will continue to conduct its business with consideration for biodiversity, while engaging in activities that make a
contribution to regional society.




     we need timber for our homes. i think rising co2 is a problem and i hope that the company
     conducts its activities while considering how best to coexist with nature. (other stakeholder)



                                                        169                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > tackling climate change



 offsetting co 2 emissions through the japan verified emission reduction (j-ver) system


   policy & plans

as a measure to combat global warming, the ministry of the environment is promoting the the japan verified
emission reduction (j-ver) system for offset credits as a means of reducing emissions of greenhouse
gases. under this system, projects to absorb greenhouse gases within japan receive carbon offset credits
equivalent to the quantity of co2 they reduced or absorbed. sumitomo forestry is actively utilizing the j-ver
system to offset the co2 generated by its business activities.


   results

offsetting the co2 from model homes
sumitomo forestry is implementing a range of initiatives to reduce co2 emissions from its model homes. in
october 2010, for a futher environmentally sound initiative, as part of the series of initiatives in its project
earth scheme, it has launched an independent initiative aiming to offset the co2 generated by its electricity
and other power used at its approximately 300 model homes around the country by using the credits it
generates in the j-ver system from company-owned forests. the offset period for credits is from october
2010 until march 2014, and in fiscal 2011 the company offset 2,542 tons of co2.

offsetting co2 emissions from sumai haku
in february 2012, the company held sumai haku 2012, its interactive wooden housing fair, in tokyo, nagoya,
and osaka. it used the credits it acquired in the j-ver system to offset the co2 emissions (63 tons at the 3
locations) that were generated at the venues through their use of electricity, gas, and water.

  link in this report: initiatives for and use of the japan verified emission reduction (j-ver) system (p.234)



 participating in japan’s trial integrated emissions trading market


in october 2008, the government of japan launched an integrated emissions trading market on a trial basis
with a view toward adopting full-scale emissions trading in japan. there are 521 participant companies with
set targets (including 392 industry associations, federations, and other organizations), 68 companies
participating in trading of emissions credits, and 126 companies participating as emissions-reducing entities in
the domestic clean development mechanism, in total 715 companies (as of july 6, 2009). participant
companies establish and pursue a voluntary goal for reducing co2 emissions. in addition to undertaking their
own efforts to reduce emissions, the participants help reduce japan’s co2 emissions by trading emission
allowances and credits.
in september 2011, sumitomo forestry’s results in fiscal 2010 in achieving its targets were audited by the
japan quality assurance organization, which confirmed that the data was accurate and that the company had
achieved its targets. the results of the audit and the issues pointed out within it are used as feedback within
the company toward further improving the accuracy of data in the future.




                                                        170                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                             environmental report > tackling climate change




 dev eloping life cycle carbon minus (lccm) homes


  policy & plans

the reduction of energy usage in daily life is essential to realizing a low-carbon society. the sumitomo
forestry group is working to develop lccm housing to reduce co2 emissions throughout the life cycle of a
home, from construction and operation through to dismantling and disposal. the lccm concept aims to
achieve a negative co2 balance across the whole life cycle of a home by using renewable energy such as
solar power, solar heat and biomass. this is premised on the deployment of technologies to reduce the co2
produced throughout the life cycle of a home, and the establishment of an energy-saving lifestyle utilizing these
technologies.


    ＜sumitomo forestry’s lccm house＞

    sumitomo forestry is striving to realize an lccm house in which co2 emissions are negative
    throughout the life cycle of the house, and which also creates lifestyle value through a variety of
    lifestyle-oriented services. sumitomo forestry home houses are a wooden custom-built home
    constructed from renewable resource, timber. by promoting measures including the proactive
    use of domestic timber, sumitomo forestry home houses achieve a reduction in co2 emissions
    as compared with steel-framed and concrete homes, from materials procurement through to
    construction. by implementing the following range of measures in the sumitomo forestry home
    houses, the company is working toward the realization of a comfortable lccm house.

       to reduce co2 emissions at the occupancy stage, promote excellent insulation and air
       tightness, highly efficient housing equipment, and the adoption of energy-generating
       equipment.
       control energy consumption in the home to optimize the internal energy balance, including
       energy creation and storage using solar power systems, residential fuel cells and storage
       batteries, as well as electric vehicles, which are likely to become widespread in the future.
       to encourage proactive energy conservation by homeowners, provide environmental
       information such as temperature, humidity and energy consumption in the household. also
       provide a variety of lifestyle-oriented services for homeowners.




                                                      171                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                              environmental report > tackling climate change


   results

launch of the smart house smart solabo
sumitomo forestry launched its new solabo in 2010 as a
wooden home that generates its own energy. advancing this
concept, in february 2012 it launched the smart solabo,
which not only features the same energy saving functions as
the wooden home, but is also installed with smart house
technologies.
                                                                                      smart solabo
this product makes extensive use of the qualities of wood,
which is a highly renewable natural resource, while also being installed with a variety of smart house
technologies that enable the residents to make the best use of energy. it generates energy through a solar
power system, while residents can visualize the energy they use through a home energy management system
(hems). the energy generated is stored in a 12kwh high-capacity residential storage battery system for later
use. the use of wood and smart house technologies enables smart solabo home owners to reduce their
electricity use and co2 emissions, providing them with a home that saves them money and also reduces their
environmental impact.

renovation to improve earthquake resistance and insulation, at the same time as realizing
energy savings by making pow er usage visible
in april 2012, sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. launched its new renovation product, smart reforest.
through renovations to improve earthquake resistance and insulation, it improves the fundamental functions of
modern homes to provide safe, secure, and pleasant living environments. moreover, the company responds to
customer requests and building conditions to provide a renovation proposal that can achieve zero lighting and
heating costs through its installation of a combination of power generation, saving, and storage equipment.
centered on the installation of a solar power system, these proposals combine the latest energy equipment,
such as a system for visualizing energy use, a residential storage battery, and a power outlet for use by
electric vehicles.

initiatives to re-use storage batteries
testing is now underway to validate re-use of the lithium-ion battery that powers the leaf electric vehicle sold
by nissan motor co., ltd., with a view to its application as a reusable storage battery in the lccm house to
achieve energy self-sufficiency. in the future, as electric vehicles become widespread, used lithium-ion
batteries could be re-used in homes to help realize a low-carbon society through efficient utilization of
resources. in order to gather a variety of data related to use of such a lithium-ion battery in the home and
develop performance enhancements, in february 2011 the company recruited monitors for houses equipped
with residential storage batteries and has installed verification equipment in their homes.




                                                       172                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           environmental report > tackling climate change


summary illustration of house equipped with a storage battery




  link to the news release: ranked highest in dbj environmental ratings
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20120427.pdf)

selection as a leading co2 conservation business in homes and buildings (category:
specified disaster areas)
sumitomo forestry’s sustainable energy house (support tohoku project) was selected by the ministry of
land, infrastructure and transport for its 3rd project for promoting co2 reduction in houses and buildings,
fiscal 2011 (category: specified disaster areas). this project aims to promote the widespread adoption of zero
energy homes and reduce co2 emissions at the same time as constructing highly feasible housing to support
the recovery from the great east japan earthquake. further, to support those in the disaster area the
government subsidies part of the maintenance costs of the homes selected for the project.

the sustainable energy house was highly evaluated by the government and selected for this project for its
active use of tohoku timber as the main structural material and for the immaculate flooring, and balanced use
of technologies for creating and saving energy. these included insulation that surpasses the next generation
energy saving standard (region ii), the use of the passive ryouonbou natural heating and cooling design
concept, and the installation of a solar power system. it was also selected for encouraging home owners to be
more aware of the importance of energy saving and for the company’s goal of comprehensively promoting the
widespread adoption of environmentally sound homes.

sustainable energy house (support tohoku project)




                                                         173                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    environmental report > tackling climate change



   link in this report: praise and awards from third party organizations (p.42)




       houses will be used for a long period of time. i would like you to build houses that promote
       environment-friendly aspects, not just reduce harms. (student)
       i strongly recommend you to coperate with ngos and npos, when you promote enviromentally
       simbiotic houses. (expert)



  reducing energy use through the ryouonbou design concept


the ryouonbou design concept draws on the wisdom and techniques of japan's traditional houses to
effectively take advantage of nature's blessings and offer a housing style that enables people to live
comfortably while limiting energy consumption.

the ryouonbou concept is based on three design principles for creating housing that is cool in the summer
and warm in the winter: kaze no sekkei wind design, taiyo no sekkei sun design, and midori no sekkei
greenery design.

research on a model house demonstrated that the ryouonbou design concept could reduce co2 emissions
during occupancy by about 40%1 compared to houses built to specifications mandated by 1992 energy
conservation standards.

1 this figure only applies to emissions attributable to heating and cooling


comparison of co2 reduction (for air-conditioning and heating only) during occupancy using eco assessment




                                                                              174           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                environmental report > tackling climate change



case study plan for placement of greenery and channels for the airflow




deciduous trees grow thick with leaves in summer, blocking out direct sunlight and creating a cool, shady area
of foliage. in winter, the trees lose their leaves, allowing the sunlight into the rooms.




by planting trees on the north side of the house it is possible to make it cooler in summer. this also has the
effect of protecting the house from the northerly winds.




in addition to blocking out sunlight during summer, the greenery also cools the air. the use of climbing plants
such as bitter melon offers the added benefit of fresh produce.




we recommend trees that suit the individual home and change appearance with the seasons. as well as
bringing out the beauty of a home, greenery also helps blend the building in with its surroundings.




in addition to allowing rainwater to be absorbed in the earth, a green parking space prevents the powerful rays
of the summer sun from being reflected back into the atmosphere, thereby moderating increases in
temperature in the area around the home.




strategically placed foliage in front of windows and other open areas restricts the view in the house from
outside and enhances privacy.



                                                         175                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                environmental report > tackling climate change




a lawn effectively reduces the reflection of the heat of the sun back into the atmosphere. leaf transpiration,
whereby moisture evaporates from the grass, helps moderate increases in temperature.




by strategically placing trees according to prevailing wind direction, it is possible to obstruct the cold northerly
wind in winter, reduce its force and chill, and divert its direction.




     i think that the ryouonbou design concept is a really important development for home builders.
     (customer)



  growing use of solar energy in houses


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is working to further reduce a house’s environmental impact by employing a solar power
system in addition to the ryouonbou design concept.


   results

in fiscal 2011, about 36% of all new detached houses sold by sumitomo forestry were equipped with solar
power systems. the company is also increasing its installation rate for of dual power generation incorporating
solar power generation systems with the residential storage battery enefarm or the gas cogeneration system
ecowill, increasing the rate to approximately 14% in fiscal 2011.

                                   fy2008        fy2009         fy2010       fy2011

solar power installation rate             4%          22%           28%          36%

dual power generation
                                      -                3%               5%       14%
installation rate


holding the “generating electricity: kikorin’s house fair 2011,” show casing housing
development that saves pow er and energy
sumitomo forestry held its generating electricity: kikorin’s house fair 2011 throughout japan for about one
and a half months from july 2011. focusing on showcasing homes installed with a solar power generation
system, the company held a series of events in a variety of venues–including on the internet, at already-built
homes, at model homes, and at design-consultation meetings–for potential customers to see, learn, and
actually experience the appeal of its environmentally sound housing. thanks to these events, the many
participants were able to experience and understand the appeal of living in a sumitomo forestry eco-home
that generates its own electricity through solar power.




                                                          176                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                            environmental report > tackling climate change



 solar hot water system dev eloped


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is developing a solar hot water system in collaboration with an equipment manufacturer.
the company is promoting the diffusion of this system, which makes efficient use of solar energy, as it helps
to save energy and reduce co2 emissions. the heat energy in this hot water system is used more efficiently
than in a solar power system, and a double solar system combining the two systems is even more economical
and environmentally sound.

comparison of annual heating / lighting expenses and co2 emissions using combined solar power and hot water
  generation system




                                                      177                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                           environmental report > tackling climate change



  adoption rate of next-generation energy conserv ation standards


    policy & plans

the japanese government has established energy conservation standards geared toward reducing energy
consumption in houses.
sumitomo forestry’s standard housing specifications have been based on next-generation energy
conservation standards1 since fiscal 2005.


    results

increasing adoption of next-generation energy conservation standards
in fiscal 2011, next-generation energy conservation standards were employed in 98.8% of the detached
houses built by the company, an improvement on last year. the standards also correspond to the highest
energy-saving level (level 4) under japan's housing performance indication system.

1 these refer to the "standards and owner determination of energy usage rationalization pertaining to houses" (notice no 3 of the ministry of economy,
   trade and industry and the ministry of land, infrastructure and transport [2006]), and "guidelines for design, construction and maintenance of energy
   usage rationalization systems for houses" (notice no 378 of the ministry of land, infrastructure and transport [2006]).




  promoting env ironmentally friendly, energy-sav ing renov ation


    policy & plans

70% of existing homes were built before 1992, and are said to have inadequate heat insulation. energy
conservation in existing homes is an important issue in the prevention of global warming. sumitomo forestry
home tech co., ltd. offers environmentally friendly, energy saving renovation, including solar power
generation systems, the latest water-saving household appliances for the kitchen and bathroom, and natural
ventilation and lighting to reduce reliance on heating and cooling equipment.


    results

launching renovation campaign to improve earthquake resistance and insulation
sumitomo forestry home tech co., ltd. continues to provide its customers with renovations that improve the
seismic resistance and energy-conservation functions of their homes. during 2011, from october 1 to
november 30, customers requesting renovations were provided with proposals that included an inspection to
confirm the functions of their current home, such as a diagnosis to check its levels of seismic resistance,
insulation, and energy conservation. in addition, the proposals included a natural lighting and ventilation
simulation showing how the customers’ homes might utilize natural energy.




                                                                            178                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                             environmental report > tackling climate change



 prov iding env ironmentally sound homes in australia


  policy & plans

australian group company henley properties group is providing a zero-emission demonstration house
incorporating energy- and water-saving measures in response to growing environmental awareness and
severe water shortages.


  results

in april 2010, the company opened its zero energy demonstration
house. this house achieves more than 70% energy savings
compared to a conventional home through utilizing a design that
takes advantage of climatic conditions and through installing a solar
power system.

installing a home energy management system (hems)
the installation of a home energy management system within the
home enables residents to check and record the amount of energy
                                                                             zero emission demonstration house
they are using. the company has been collaborating with
telstra, one of australia’s leading communication companies,
and developed the system that residents can confirm and adjust their home’s energy use via the internet or a
portable device while away from home.

water-saving measures
the company installs 1,000-liter rain water tanks on the roofs of its zero energy demonstration house to
catch and store rain water, which can be used for flushing toilets and for water sprinklers in gardens. in
addition, waste water from baths and washing machines is filtered for re-use for watering gardens.




                                                       179                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 environmental report > resource recycling




 policy on resources


   policy & plans

approximately 76.2 tons of resources are used for the principal structural members and building materials that
go into a single house built to the company's standard specifications. therefore, first of all the company is
working to reduce the environmental impact and effectively utilize resources, focusing on zero emissions
initiatives, including reducing the generation of waste, reusing resources, and recycling.

in addition, at the time of inputting raw materials, it is necessary to eliminate redundant materials and use
components that generate a low amount of offcuts, in order to reduce the volume of resources. the company
also believes it is important to utilize recycled products in order to advance the recycling of resources.
sumitomo forestry is working to complete the loop of recycling by using recyclable resources, thoroughly
separating wastes at construction and demolition sites, and promoting the use of recycled products.




     i think it’s wonderful that your philosophy of using natural resources based on reuse, repair, and
     recycling enables you to keep the amount of waste you produce to the absolute minimum.
     (housewife)
     i was surprised at how high your recycling rate is. (company employee)




                                                       180                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                 environmental report > resource recycling




  zero emissions initiativ es


in order to advance the recycling of resources, the company first defines the “zero emissions” target to be
pursued, and works to achieve this target.


      definition of zero emissions

      the group will not simply incinerate or bury in landfills all of the industrial waste generated from
      its plants in japan and new housing construction sites.



based on this definition, the group will continue zero emissions activities at domestic manufacturing facilities,
and initially aims to achieve zero emissions at new construction sites1 in the capital area by december 31,
2012.
the recycling rate at the end of fiscal 2011 was 89.3%.

1 includes residential landscaping




  waste reduction at new housing construction sites


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry identifies the volume of waste generated at new housing construction sites and works to
reduce this volume, while also preventing inappropriate disposal. the company is also working towards the
achievement of zero emissions by promoting the processing of industrial waste by utilizing “inter-region
recovery and recycling certification system1.”

 1 when manufacturers collect industrial waste across multiple prefectures, this is a special system whereby approval for waste disposal is not required
    from each separate municipal government provided that the minister for the environment certifies compliance with certain strict criteria such as processing
    capacity, even when the manufacturer outsources collection/transportation, intermediate treatment and final disposal.




                                                                            181                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    environmental report > resource recycling


   results

fy2011 recycling results
within the items targeted for zero emissions, a recycling rate of 86.8% was achieved for waste generated at
new housing construction sites.

volume of industrial waste from new detached housing (fy2011)




treatment of industrial waste utilizing inter-region recovery and recycling certification system
on december 8, 2010, sumitomo forestry obtained industrial waste certification from the minister of the
environment based on an inter-region recovery and recycling certification system. this system enables
companies designated by sumitomo forestry (such as materials suppliers) to be registered as “persons
engaged in the collection or transportation of industrial waste,” so that approval for industrial waste treatment
is not required in relation to the collection and transportation of the company’s waste. this makes it possible
to collect industrial waste by utilizing specialist waste collection/transportation vehicles and trucks returning to
base after having transported homebuilding materials to new construction sites, and to consolidate waste
collection at collection centers registered in the inter-region certification system.
the consolidated waste is entrusted directly to treatment contractors that can process it with zero emissions,
or is transported to in-house facilities where high-level separation can be carried out. after sorting, the waste
is entrusted directly to third-party recycling facilities or is sold at a profit.

establishment of the capital area recycling center
  to achieve zero emissions at new construction sites, waste needs to be sorted to the highest degree
  possible. thinking that it would be effective to establish a specialist in-house waste separation facility to
  carry out high-level sorting of waste, sumitomo established the capital area recycling center in kazo city,
  saitama prefecture and it has been sequentially launching operations at this center since july 2012. the
  ultimate goal of the consolidation and separation of waste from housing construction in the capital area and
  its transportation to recycling centers is to achieve zero emissions in the tokyo metropolitan area by
  december 2012.
  establishment of the recycling center will make it possible to collect and analyze waste-related data, and
  provide feedback on potential improvements in areas such as product development, materials, design,
  production and distribution, which will lead to a reduction in the volume of waste being generated.




                                                            182                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 environmental report > resource recycling


current and new process flows




validation w ith industrial waste traceability system
  in fiscal 2008, the housing division conducted a trial run of an industrial waste traceability system2 that
  uses ic chips to ascertain the actual output of waste from new housing construction sites. in fiscal 2009,
  this industrial waste traceability system was installed and operated at 10 branches, including the six
  branches in the greater tokyo area, mito, kyoto, shiga, and kita-kyushu. the operational plans for the
  capital area recycling center have been drafted with reference to the data collected in this system.
  this system will come to an end at the six branches in the tokyo area and mito along with the launch of the
  recycling center collection system utilizing inter-region recovery and recycling certification system. however,
  operations were launched at the shinshu branch in february 2012 and it will also continue to operate in


                                                      183                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                              environmental report > resource recycling



  other areas as the company works to reduce waste by comparing the data before and after introduction of
  the system.

2 ministry of the environment, ‘project to create the technological foundations to promote the formation of a next generation recycling society’ fiscal 2008


initiatives to limit industrial waste from packaging materials
the group continues its efforts to limit the generation of industrial waste through the use of precut timber,
reducing the amount of packaging materials used. examples of efforts in this area include setting the
dimensions of the eaves to minimize the waste generated when producing precut timber for soffits (the
underside of eaves) and end cuts from materials used to finish the underside of the home’s eaves. in addition,
the practicality and costs of pre-cutting ceramic roof tiles, sidings, and panels for exterior reinforcement are
being investigated for future deployment.


   future plans

sumitomo forestry will continue its efforts to increase its recycling rate at its business sites throughout japan
and achieve zero emissions through recycling at recycling centers that utilize the inter-region recovery and
recycling certification system. the company’s capital area recycling center is working toward achieving
even finer separation of waste at the same time as developing materials recycled from in-house production
and utilizing them in the construction of new houses.



  waste reduction at plants


   results

achievement of zero emissions
zero emissions was achieved at the plants of sumirin agro-products co., ltd. in fiscal 2011 as a result of its
continuing efforts to eliminate emissions. the plants operated by sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. have also
been working to reduce industrial waste by searching for and implementing new methods of processing difficult-
to-recycle waste, but despite these efforts their overall result fell slightly below the target for fiscal 2011.

volume of waste generated at plants (fy2011)




                                                                          184                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > resource recycling




 proper disposal of demolition waste


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry has promoted recycling since before enactment of the construction waste recycling law,
by thoroughly dismantling, sorting, and separately disposing of waste materials when constructing new houses.


  results

the company has achieved a nearly 100% recycling rate for concrete and metal waste. a 98% recycling rate
has been achieved for wood waste, and the present challenge is to develop recycling routes for roofing tiles,
glass, ceramics, gypsum board, and other composite waste.

volume of demolition waste (fy2011)




                                                     185                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                environmental report > resource recycling




 recycling of w ood waste


  policy & plans

offcuts from the timber milling process and waste wood from new housing construction and demolition sites
can be turned into wood chips for re-use in papermaking and particle board or as fuel for power-generating
boilers. recently, it has been pressing ahead with the use of pks (palm kernel shells) from overseas as fuel.
sumitomo forestry has created its own recycling routes for facilitating the distribution of wood chips by
employing the networks it has developed through its timber distribution business.


  results

due mainly to the increased applications of wood chips as a fuel since 2009, the company has increased the
volume it handles as fuel for biomass, boilers, and biomass power generation.

volume of wood chips handled




     i agree with your reuse of natural resources, such as creating wood chips from waste to use as
     fuel. (customer)




                                                      186                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > resource recycling



 effectiv e utilization of used activ ated carbon from water purification plants


  policy & plans

the tokyo metropolitan government bureau of waterworks uses an advanced water purification process that
combines ozone treatment with biologically activated carbon. this system uses a large quantity of activated
carbon, amounting to some 5,000m3 per year, in the process of reducing organic material and deodorization,
necessitating the effective use of the used activated carbon.
group company sumirin agro-products co., ltd. is making effective use of this used activated carbon to
develop and market potting media for agriculture and horticulture and a soil improvement agent for landscaping.


  results

joint patent application w ith tokyo metropolis regarding effect on promotion of plant grow th
for two years (fiscal 2008-2009), sumirin agro-products co., ltd. conducted joint research with the tokyo
metropolitan government bureau of waterworks to develop effective uses for used activated carbon from
water purification process. the research demonstrated that used activated carbon effectively promoted plant
growth when used as potting media for agriculture and horticulture and as a soil improvement agent for
landscaping. sumirin agro-products co., ltd. and the tokyo metropolis have jointly applied for a patent based
on these research results.

launch of soil improver sales
in february 2011, the company started selling a soil improvement agent that utilizes used activated carbon.
sales in fiscal 2011, which were primarily from the kanto area, reached 53 tons.


  future plans

going forward, the company plans to commercialize and expand sales channels for potting media and soil
improvement agents using used activated carbon.




                                                     187                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                environmental report > resource recycling



  recycling of glass pieces


   policy & plans

sumirin agro-products co., ltd. has developed a next-generation, lightweight growing medium for rice
seedlings utilizing glass pieces. conventional red soil-type rice seedling growing media have a significant
environmental impact, as their production involves the extraction of mountain soil, and their heavy weight has
presented problems as the age of those working in agriculture has risen. this product helps to resolve these
issues.


   results

sales of karuido rice seedling grow ing medium
in march 2011, sales of a new rice seedling growing medium
karuido were launched. karuido is an environmentally sound
product that uses granular activated carbon and a recycled material
made by expanding waste (broken) window glass at high
temperature. it weighs about 60% less than conventional products,
and also has excellent permeability and aeration properties. the
product also facilitates a shorter growing period due to faster seed
germination and root growth, and requires no new equipment                  karuido, which uses expanded glass
additional to planting with a transplanting machine, thereby saving         pieces and granular activated carbon
labor.
sales had reached 130 tons by may 2012.

   future plans

sales in fiscal 2011 were focused on the tokai, kansai, and hokuriku regions, but in fiscal 2012 sales will also
begin in the tohoku, joshin’etsu, and kanto regions.


  link to the news release: “sumirin agro-products to launch karuido”
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110225.pdf)




    i think lca is important. i was surprised that potting compost is being created from waste glass
    materials. (customer)




                                                       188                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 environmental report > preserving forests




 conserv ation and sustainable use of timber resources


forests perform a variety of functions for the public good, including erosion control and water control,
cultivating water resources, curbing global warming by absorbing co2, and preserving biodiversity. for these
functions to work effectively, proper forest management is crucial.
the sumitomo forestry group believes that sustainable forest management is necessary to ensure that timber
resources are available in perpetuity, and is advancing initiatives both in and outside japan.




the sumitomo forestry group owns
forests with a total area of 42,868
hectares within japan. outside japan, it
manages forests with a total area of
approximately 200,000 hectares. the
functions of forests that serve the public
good can be enhanced by appropriate
forestry management including weeding,
pruning, and thinning.
forests absorb co2 then retain it as
carbon – or “carbon stock.” the carbon
stock of the sumitomo forestry group
forests in japan was 10.74 million t-co2,
and the carbon stock of plantation forests
overseas was 3.62 million t-co2.



                                                       189                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  environmental report > preserving forests




in fiscal 2011, the sumitomo forestry group harvested approximately 560,000m3 of trees. the harvested
trees were milled and processed, then provided to the world as a variety of applications, including housing and
furniture. in some cases, for example structural members used in houses, the timber will be used for decades.
even after trees are processed into products, the wood continues to retain co2 as carbon. thus, it can be
said that using wooden products and building wood-construction homes are activities that “create forests in
cities.”


     carbon stock in housing

     one sumitomo forestry home house has a carbon
     stock of about 22.6 t-co2. the carbon stock of all
     houses constructed by the company in fiscal 2011
     (9,007 houses) totaled approximately 203,000 t-co2.

     1 carbon stock of the timber used in housing construction in fiscal 2011




wood products can still be used effectively even after they have served their purpose. for example, in the
case of wood-construction homes, the lumber can be re-used after demolition as wooden materials such as
boards.
wood chips resulting from this process of re-use, and wood that has served its purpose as a wooden product,
can still be used as wood fuel. this is called cascade usage and is a way to use wood completely and totally.
in this way, carbon is retained until wood products are used as biomass fuel to create electricity. at this point,
the co2 released from burning the wood is the co2 that was absorbed during the tree’s growth process, so the
co2 in the atmosphere has not been increased during the life cycle of the tree.

  link in this report: “promoting wood biomass power generation” (p.233)



just harvesting trees and using the timber means forestry resources will be diminished. sumitomo forestry
always plants and cultivates new trees after harvesting trees to ensure sustainability of forest resources.
in fiscal 2011, sumitomo forestry planted forests in japan with a total area of approximately 54 hectares and
13,905 hectares overseas. from a carbon stock perspective, during the time wood products used in cities are
retaining carbon, newly planted trees grow, absorb co2, and retain carbon. by promoting operations that
encourage greater use of timber resources through the structural application and incorporation of wood.
company-owned forests and the carbon retained in the homes built by sumitomo forestry thus increase the
carbon stock and contribute to counteracting global warming.




     i am interested in your use of japanese timber. i hope that you continue to use it in the future,
     and also that you educate people on the importance of using it. (student)
     you communicated well your company’s philosophy with regards to timber. (other stakeholder)
     considering forestry in japan as a whole, in the future i hope that the forestry business develops
     while placing great importance on environmental protection. (customer)


                                                                          190        sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                    environmental report > preserving forests




  promoting sustainable forestry in japan


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry's company-owned forests located in hokkaido, wakayama, shikoku and kyushu regions
cover a total area of 42,868 hectares (about 1/900 of japan's land area).company-owned forests are
categorized as “economic forests,” where the production of timber is the priority, and “environmental forests,”
where the preservation of forests is the focus. thinning is carried out appropriately, taking into consideration
the ecosystems and surrounding environment. the company ensures sustainable forest management using a
range of techniques, including small-area clear cutting for mature forests that are ready for harvesting, which
enables efficient harvesting of trees, followed by reforestation. moreover, it is utilizing this expertise in order to
contribute to the realization of sustainable forestry at non company-owned forests within japan.

distribution and area covered by sumitomo forestry-owned forests (as of march 31, 2012)




                                                         191                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                   environmental report > preserving forests


    results

acquisition of sgec 1 certification for company-ow ned forests
sumitomo forestry-owned forests acquired certification from japan’s sustainable green ecosystem council
(sgec) in september 2006. in fiscal 2011, the first updated inspection was carried out and it was
independently determined that sumitomo forestry had continued to manage its forests appropriately, including
taking measures to preserve biodiversity, among other issues.

   link in this report: “preserving biodiversity” (p.208)

1 japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by third parties. certification is based on seven
   criteria that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources.


selected as the outsourcer for the implementation of a proposal-type recycling business in
wakayama prefecture
sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd. was selected for this model project by the forests and forestry
office in the agriculture, forestry, and fisheries department of wakayama prefecture, which requested
application proposals for the first trial period. within the 170 hectares of wakayama prefecture-owned
kawanaka-forests, 26 hectares were selected to be used for the trial. the proposals from the recycling-
business operators were evaluated based on their ability to comprehensively conduct afforestation operations
in the area over a five year period, including tasks such as clear cutting, transportation, timber sales, and
afforestation. sumitomo forestry wood products intends to minimize implementation costs in this project
through comprehensively utilizing the existing road network and overhead wiring.




       i think that rebuilding the japanese forestry business in japan, which has been in decline, can
       contribute to securing a sustainable, green energy source. toward this, i think the company
       needs to focus not only on its own forests, but also to increase its collaborations with npos and
       ngos that are undertaking rural regeneration activities in regional locations. in this way, i think
       the company can contribute even more to the rebuilding of domestic forestry by creating jobs and
       helping people in regional communities make a living. (customer)
       i think that the decline of the forestry business should have been discussed in a little more detail.
       (other stakeholder)




                                                                             192                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                       environmental report > preserving forests



  initiativ es for efficient and labor-sav ing harv esting of trees


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is working to achieve substantial streamlining and labor saving in its timber harvesting
system in japan’s forests through modernizing its overhead wire lines, centered on its introduction of
next-generation tower yarders1.


    results

the company has developed an in-vehicle-type, highly functional
tower yarder for ‘r&d for harvesting equipment for wood biomass
in remote forests,’ which is a project supported by nedo (new
energy and industrial technology development organization). the
new tower yarders are intended to replace conventional overhead
wire lines and the company has been testing this new equipment for
approximately one year in company-owned forests in kyushu
(hyuga forest office). as a result of this trial, in fiscal 2011,
2,000m3 of forest was harvested using this equipment (result from                               a next-generation tower yarder being used
may 2011 to january 2012), thereby establishing the foundations                                   at a company-owned forest in kyushu
for highly efficient, labor-saving operations.
in addition, the company is actively using equipment installed with wireless control functions, with the intention
of not only increasing the efficiency of harvests but also improving safety at work sites.

1 timber harvesting machinery that has been modified to make it suitable for japanese forests



    future plans

the company aims to introduce the next-generation tower yarders into actual operations during fiscal 2012
and plans to use them to harvest approximately 7,000m3 a year.



  using tree shelters 1 for low density cedar reforestation in tokushima prefecture


sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd. completed a forestry outsourcing contract with a forestry
company in tokushima prefecture, and in accordance with the contract has begun low-cost cedar reforestation
using tree shelters. the tree shelters, which were jointly developed by sumitomo forestry wood products,
sumitomo forestry, and phytoculture control co., ltd, protect the trees from damage from birds and animals,
such as deer, and also encourage their growth by preventing the dispersion of excessive moisture. as a result,
they make possible low density reforestation, with a density of approximately half that required in conventional
reforestation. as a type of next generation forestry that takes into account how the market is expected to
develop in the future, it is thought that tree shelters can play a useful role in improving and reinvigorating the
forestry industry within japan.

1 covering the area surrounding the sapling with a plastic tube




                                                                          193                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   environmental report > preserving forests



 building a forest management model utilizing airborne laser imaging detection and
 ranging (lidar) technology

   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is using airborne laser imaging detection and ranging (lidar) on a trial basis in some of
its forests in order to accurately identify the volume of resources in these forests, to more accurately calculate
the sustainable harvestable volume over the medium-to-long term, and to build an efficient and effective forest
management model.


   results

implementation of lidar
forest measurement using lidar was carried out over approximately 1,500 hectares of company-owned
forest in kyushu, and the measurement data was then analyzed. lidar is a technology for obtaining detailed
measurement of the ground surface. laser beams are projected onto the ground by a laser measuring device
on board an aircraft or a helicopter, and ground measurements are obtained from the direction of the reflected
beam and the time it takes to arrive. when used in a forest region, it is possible to obtain detailed data
including the topography and height of the trees.

validation of lidar efficacy
the efficacy of lidar in surveying the volume of forest resources was confirmed by validating the precision of
forest stand lidar measurement based on a field survey.


   future plans

additional surveys are due to be carried out in forest stands where existing forest survey data differs
significantly from the fiscal 2010 validation results, in order to enhance the precision of the survey data.
wide-area measurement of forests using lidar will also be carried out in other regions in order to build an
efficient and effective forest management model.



 streamlining management of company-owned forests through joint operations


to maximize the functionality of forests, proper maintenance of forests—clearing away of underbrush, pruning,
and thinning—is vital. in japan, however, the large number of owners holding small forestland makes it difficult
to do so efficiently, diminishing the vitality of forests and hindering the use of domestic timber resources. to
overcome this problem, sumitomo forestry is working to increase the efficiency of forest maintenance through
joint operations with forest owners in japan.


joint operations w ith private ow ners of large forests
   policy & plans

the group aspires to fulfill its responsibility to society as a leading private-sector owner of forests in japan by
realizing the renewal of japan’s forests by innovating new private-sector-led business models.




                                                        194                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     environmental report > preserving forests


   results

signing of memorandum on joint operations by three private-sector companies
in october 2009, sumitomo forestry, oji paper co., ltd., and oji forest & products co., ltd. signed a
memorandum of understanding to engage in joint utilization of forestry resources centered on each of the three
company’s forests. this is the first joint operation of its kind in japan between corporations holding large-scale
forest assets.
the three companies are jointly engaged in two projects involving “active use of sgec-certified timber from
hokkaido,” and “a joint forestry operations area in ehime prefecture,” leveraging technology and expertise
accumulated over many years of forestry management, as well as an integrated, upstream-to-downstream
initiative.

                 project name                                          overview of project

                                              sgec-certified logs harvested from forests owned by sumitomo
                                              forestry (monbetsu area) and oji paper group (soya and engaru areas)
                                              will be processed by sgec-certified entities (processing facilities that
 active use of sgec-certified timber from
                                              have been certified by sgec for classification, separation, and
 hokkaido
                                              labeling) , and finished into high-quality structural members made of
                                              engineered wood, then used in custom-built detached houses sold by
                                              sumitomo forestry.

                                              sumitomo forestry and the oji paper group will jointly create a forestry
                                              operations area centered on forests owned by oji paper group with
 joint forestry operations area in ehime      neighboring privately held forests, creating the scale necessary for
 prefecture                                   operating efficiencies, and building new logging roads through the
                                              mountains, thereby increasing the productivity and efficiency of
                                              operations such as thinning.


in fiscal 2011, as part of the project for the ‘active use of sgec-certified timber from hokkaido,’ the company
purchased approximately 318m3 of sgec forest certified japanese larch laminae that was produced and
processed by the oji paper group. the company’s sapporo branch utilized some of these laminae to produce
approximately 110m3 of engineered wood (for columns) for use in orders for detached housing.


promotion of public-private sector forestry management
   policy & plans

to achieve efficiencies in forest management, sumitomo forestry is promoting efficient forest operations by
designating a forestry joint operations area encompassing national forests and private and public forests,
whose ownership structures are different.

   results

signing of agreement to promote forest maintenance betw een ow ners of national, private and
public forests
in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry signed an agreement to promote forest maintenance between owners of
national, private and public forests in relation to company-owned forests in the prefectures of kochi,
kumamoto and wakayama. the initiative in kumamoto prefecture is the largest forest area ever covered by
such an agreement. as a result, it is now possible to efficiently build a network of strip roads, which has been
problematic up until now, and to create efficiencies in forestry operations, with the expectation of reduced
costs.
                                                       195                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                            environmental report > preserving forests



overview of agreement for promotion of forest management
                                                                                           company-owned
       area                             signatories to the agreement                         forest area                   fy2011 results
                                                                                             (total area)

                                                                                                                strip roads built through
                    ・ forestry agency, shikoku regional forest office, reihoku forest
                                                                                                     225 ha     company-owned forests(breakdown)
kochi prefecture      management department
                                                                                                    (716 ha)    upgraded: approx. 420 m
                    ・ sumitomo forestry co., ltd., niihama forestry office1
                                                                                                                constructed: approx. 40 m

                    ・ forestry agency, kyushu regional forest office, kumamoto
                      nambu forest management department
                    ・ forestry and forest products research institute, forest and
                      agricultural land maintenance center, kumamoto water and forest                           new strip roads built through
kumamoto              resource office                                                                 317ha     company-owned forests(breakdown)
prefecture          ・ sumitomo forestry co., ltd., hyuga forestry office2                          (3,935ha)    company owned: approx. 400 m
                    ・ kyushu yokoi forestry co., ltd.                                                           other: approx. 900 m
                    ・ oji forest & products co., ltd., hyuga sales office
                    ・ nippon paper industries co., ltd., nippon paper lumber co ., ltd.,
                      yashiro sales office

                    ・ forestry agency, kinki chugoku regional forest office, wakayama
                      forest management department
                    ・ forestry and forest products research institute, forest and                               new strip roads built through
wakayama                                                                                              288ha
                      agricultural land maintenance center, wakayama water and forest                           company-owned forests(breakdown)
prefecture                                                                                         (1,539ha)
                      resource office                                                                           company owned: approx. 2,850 m
                    ・ sumitomo forestry co., ltd., ogawa forestry office3
                    ・ miyama forest owner’s cooperation



1 now sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd., niihama forestry office
2 now sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd., hyuga forestry office
3 now sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd., wakayama forestry office


  future plans

going forward, the partners will continue to jointly engage in thinning operations and sales of products made
from the thinnings, and aim for even more appropriate and efficient operations.




                                                                            196                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  environmental report > preserving forests



 effectiv e use of unused biomass resources


  policy & plans

branches and twigs from thinning of forest, and wood left over from logging become a source of greenhouse
gas emissions, and can be a remote cause of regional natural disasters, such as mudslids. sumitomo forestry
wood products is actively promoting effective use of such unused biomass resources.


  results

start of supply of wood left over from logging
as wood biomass fuel
sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd. has taken
a lead role in researching the construction of a system
to collect wood left over from logging and provide wood
biomass fuel, as part of the model demonstration
project for new business creation using wood
resources since fiscal 2008. following a positive
assessment of the results, sumitomo forestry wood            wood left over from logging (left) and wood chips (right)
products co., ltd. has been providing sumitomo joint
electric power co., ltd. with all the necessary amount of wood left over from logging for their biomass power
generation business launched in july 2010, in which a portion of the coal used to generate electric power is
replaced with biomass chips. as well as cutting co2 emissions by 6,900 tons per year, this also contributes to
the preservation of regional forests. similar initiatives are being promoted with the kochi plant of sumitomo
osaka cement co., ltd., involving the supply of wood left over from logging. in fiscal 2011, sumitomo forestry
wood products supplied the two companies with a combined total of approximately 20,000 tons of left-over
wood.

  link in this report: promoting wood biomass power generation (p.233)


  future plans

following the launch in july 2012 of the feed-in tariff program for renewable energy, sumitomo forestry is
aiming to further expand its business of supplying wood left over from logging across the nation.




                                                      197                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                               environmental report > preserving forests




 proactiv e use of domestic timber


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is promoting measures to encourage the active use of japanese timber, including the
development and diffusion of standards to ensure the supply of timber with consistent quality, cost reductions
through joint forestry operations, and the effective use of wood left over from logging.


   results

expansion of supply using company-developed standard fs (forest service) grade
in order to increase demand for japanese timber, it is necessary to provide products with consistent quality,
while also ensuring stable supply. in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd. began selling
japanese timber products using a company-developed standard for pre-cut timber, the fs (forest service)
grade. the other company-developed standard is mizdas®1, which is targeted at timber blocks of japanese
cedar and cypress, but fs grade is a general standard for pre-cut timber, covering cedar posts and studs.
this standard leads to enhanced recovery rate and cost-competitiveness, for example by broadening the
acceptable range of surface cracks, and by allowing wane if it is within 30cm from the tip end of the timber, as
the wane is cut at the pre-cut stage.
sales have been focused on the kanto, tohoku and hokuriku regions, and in fiscal 2011, supplies of fs grade
products reached 390,000m3, 13 times the fiscal 2010 level.

promoting systems for utilizing japanese timber
sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd. is working to reduce costs by creating joint forestry operations
areas with small-scale forest owners and proposing efficient forestry management including maintenance of
forestry roads and thinning/final cutting and planting. with regard to distribution, a system has been established
in which products bypass the log market and are shipped directly to customers, incorporating the market-in2
technique into harvesting plans. also, the company is engaged in a project to utilize wood left over from
logging, such as branch and short timber, in biomass power generation and as a fuel mixed with coal during
burning.


   future plans

the company plans to expand sales of fs grade products and increase the range of products available, such
as cypress posts, foundations and engineered wood, while developing a nationwide customer base.

  link in this report: “streamlining management of company-owned forests through joint operations” (p.194)

1 a system that is incorporated into timber drying equipment to automatically control temperature and humidity via computer
2 a management approach whereby the requirements of the customer or buyer are identified during the development, production and sale of a product, and
   only the quantity of the product required by the user is supplied.


                                                                          198                                     sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                              environmental report > preserving forests




       i think that using japanese cedars to manage forests is helping to preserve these forests.
       (customer)
       i feel that today, timber-related businesses have important roles to play both in terms of protecting
       the environment and creating jobs. (customer)



  using japanese timber in homes

    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry embraces a policy of actively using japanese timber in its houses, and is promoting
initiatives to encourage the use of its super cypress laminated engineered wood for structural use, made from
japanese cypress (chamaecyparis obtusa), and its original load-bearing wall lattice panels, made from
japanese cedar (cryptomeria japonica) and japanese larch (larix leptolepis).

    results

supply of homes w ith enhanced ratio of japanese timber
in fiscal 2008, the company reached its target of using japanese
timber for 70% of the principal structural members in sumitomo
forestry home house, where the main multi-balance construction
method is employed. sumitomo forestry also supplies houses in
certain regions, or limited to particular models, in which this ratio is
increased to 100%, such as myforest-waraku miyabi, myforest-
taiju, and a hokkaido specification product.
                                                                                                                     super cypress
supply of homes using certified timber
to produce homes that use timber from certified forests, such timber
must be appropriately separated and marked in the processing, distribution and home construction processes.
since february 2008, sumitomo forestry has been supplying houses that use sgec-certified timber in
hokkaido, where it was possible to implement these systems in each process and to procure certified timber
on a stable basis throughout the year.

supply of homes actively using regionally-produced
timber
in hokkaido, sumitomo forestry offers a 100% “made in hokkaido”
model that uses only locally grown japanese larch and sakhalin fir.
the company has built houses in nagano, nara, wakayama,
yamaguchi, ehime, kochi, and oita using at least some locally
produced timber.
in august 2010, the company launched sales of forest garden
keio horinouchi built-for-sale housing (in hachioji city, tokyo) ,                                      tama certified cypress, produced from
where some of the principal structural members (posts and                                                          local trees in tokyo
foundations) use japanese cypress certified based on the tama
timber certification scheme1, thereby contributing to the revitalization of regional forests.

   link in this report: “property development in harmony with regional areas and the environment” (p.74)
1 a scheme in which forest owners, materials manufacturers, the log market and timber product manufacturers register, and the tama timber certification
   council certifies that the wood has been produced in appropriately managed forests in the tama region.

                                                                           199                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                   environmental report > preserving forests




       i think it’s good if consumers make a conscious decision to use environmentally sound
       homebuilding materials. (customer)
       sumitomo forestry does not exclusively use japanese timber, but also uses imported timber. i
       think it is good that the company sets separate environmental initiatives for each type of timber.
       (business partner)



  using japanese timber in products


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is committed to the proactive use of japanese timber in interior materials and furniture.
the proactive use of domestic timber supports the revitalization and sound cultivation of domestic forests and
also contributes to environmental conservation, including preserving national land and curbing global warming.
thus, it also contributes to the achievement of the government’s goal of 50% self-sufficiency in timber.


    results & future plans

making effective use of thinnings: the monbetsu no mori
line of furniture
sumitomo forestry markets the monbetsu no mori line of furniture
that makes effective use of thinnings of hard wood harvested from
company-owned forests primarily in monbetsu, hokkaido. the
thinnings from hard wood used as raw materials for the monbetsu
no mori brand comes from sgec1-certified forests. in fiscal 2010,
companies involved in production of the monbetsu no mori brand
acquired certification for a distribution system for sgec-certified                                       furniture products made with thinnings of
timber products, and can now display the sgec label on products.                                          broadleaf trees from forests in monbetsu
this is the first time in japan that furniture displaying the sgec
label has been sold and the number of companies that support initiatives such as these are increasing.
through these companies, sumitomo forestry is aiming to also exhibit is products overseas. going forward, it
intends to develop products that use not only mongolian oak, but also other tree species such as the
japanese ash and the japanese white birch.

1 japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by third parties. certification is based on seven
   criteria that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources.


production of ayasugi and totorop interior materials using
japanese timber
sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. uses japanese cedar for its
ayasugi line of interior materials such as entrance hall storage
areas, doors, stairs, and flooring, and japanese-grown sakhalin fir
for its totorop line of doors, walls, and flooring. a cycle of planting
and logging japanese-grown sakhalin fir trees, which are commonly
grown in hokkaido, enables a balance between timber supply and
forest regeneration.                                                                                                      ayasugi flooring



                                                                             200                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   environmental report > preserving forests



exterior products using japanese cypress thinnings and small trees
sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. sells the environmentally sound original
deck hinoki brand that uses thinnings from japanese cypress, and has also
increased sales of product variations such as japanese cypress fences/open
verandahs. japanese cypress is a conifer that possesses beautiful grain and
superior durability, and, as such, has traditionally been used in shrines and altars.
cypress thinnings and small diameter trees are procured through the domestic
network of the sumitomo forestry group, and are used effectively as products
employing the group’s own heat treatment technology. during fiscal 2011, the                    original deck hinoki
                       2
company sold 8,000m of original deck hinoki.




     when using wood, i think it’s good if consumers know where it comes from. (student)



 dev elopment of efficient timber drying technology


when manufacturing cedar and cypress posts, cracking tends to
occur in the wood-drying process, especially for cedar due to its
high and unstable moisture content, making it difficult to ensure
consistent quality as a dried timber.
sumitomo forestry responded by developing and promoting the
mizdas® system, which is incorporated into timber drying
equipment, to automatically control temperature and humidity via
computer. this system which adjusts the drying process to the
moisture content and temperature of the timber to be dried reduces
                                                                            timber dried with the mizdas® system
cracking, distortion and other damage to the timber, and makes it
possible to supply highly competitive and high-quality mizdas® cedar posts and mizdas® cypress posts at
low cost.




                                                        201                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  environmental report > preserving forests




as forecasts for global timber consumption continue to rise, loss of forests and destruction of ecosystems are
accelerating at a dramatic pace due to forest fires, illegal logging, and slash-and-burn farming in southeast asia
and other parts of the world. in this environment, sumitomo forestry is expanding its forest plantation business
overseas in order to promote the active use of sustainable plantation timber.


   promotion of the plantation forestry business ov erseas


    policy & plans

 in order to ensure a stable supply of raw materials while still protecting the environment, group companies
 outside japan are increasing their use of plantation timber by reducing procurement of raw materials from
 natural forests, and are promoting plantation forest operations.


    results

 during fiscal 2011, overseas group companies reforested a total area of 13,905 hectares. however, the total
 number of samplings planted by rpi in indonesia declined because of the later-than-usual start to the rainy
 season, which delayed the start of its reforestation operations.

 trees planted in fy2010 and fy2011

                                                                           reforested area
               company name                         country
                                                                         2010              2011

  kutai timber indonesia (kti)                indonesia                    2,814ha           4,168ha

  rimba partikel indonesia (rpi)              indonesia                    1,051ha             395ha

  nelson pine industries (npil)               new zealand                    216ha             109ha

  open bay timber (obt)                       papua new guinea               965ha           1,208ha

  pt. wana subur lestari (wsl)                indonesia                      638ha           6,086ha

  pt. mayangkara tanaman industri (mti)       indonesia                           -          1,939ha




                                                          202                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                  environmental report > preserving forests


reforestation in indonesia(thousand trees)




   future plans

the company is aiming to increase the percentage of raw material from plantation trees, which it will use to
produce plywood and other timber products. it is actively implementing measures to expand the size of its
plantations and during 2012, rpi plans to plant approximately 1.5 million saplings.




     i was surprised by how different the land is before and after reforestation. (student)



 contribution of social forestry to local communities


   policy & plans

in its plantation forest operations in indonesia, the sumitomo forestry group cooperates with residents living
in the vicinity of its projects to ensure that regional society also receives the economic benefits of plantation
forest operations.




                                                       203                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   environmental report > preserving forests


   results

contributing to regional society through social forestry
in 2000, the company launched “social forestry” in indonesia, a program for distributing seedlings to local
residents free of charge. kutai timber indonesia (kti) (http://www.kti.co.id/) and rimba partikel indonesia
(rpi) then promise to buy the grown trees back in six to seven years, when the trees are ready for harvesting.
as well as endeavoring to support the independence of local residents, social forestry also fosters
communication in order to build strong relationships with regional society.

in fiscal 2011 in the area around the plantation forest operations, more than 30 regions and about 5,100
people were involved with forest plantation through social forestry.

acquisition of forestry certification in cooperation w ith local residents
kti formed a reforestation cooperative together with local residents in fiscal 2007, and acquired fsc®-fm
certification for 152 hectares of plantation forest in december 2008. certification was obtained for an
additional 179 hectares of plantation forest in january 2011, taking the total area of certified plantation forest
to 331 hectares.


   future plans

in order to increase its total area of forests that are certified, in september 2011 the company applied for
fsc®-fm certification for an additional 673 hectares of plantation forest and expects to acquire this
certification during fiscal 2012.




     if you are satisfied with the progress of your measures overseas, could you not do something
     about the devastated forests in japan? (other stakeholder)



  increased handling of timber from certified forests and plantation forests


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry procures timber from forests all over the world
and therefore has a major obligation to preserve the world's forests.
the sumitomo forestry group has set forth its timber procurement
philosophy and policy and action plan, and is promoting
procurement of sustainable timber. the timber & building materials
division’s international marketing department and timber & building
materials department have acquired chain of custody (coc)3
certifications from both the forest stewardship council (fsc®)1
and the programme for the endorsement of forest certification
(pefc)2 to encourage the use of timber from sustainable forests.
the action plan based on the timber procurement philosophy and policy has set a target of 70% handling of
timber from certified forests (fsc®, pefc, and sgec) and plantation forests within the process of timber
distribution by fiscal 2012.




                                                        204                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                  environmental report > preserving forests


 1 the forest stewardship council (fsc®), which is a third party organization, provides a global forestry certification system. its forest management (fm)
    certification authenticates forest management, while fsc chain of custody (coc) certification confirms that forest products from certified forests are
    appropriately separated and marked in the storage, processing and distribution processes.
 2 abbreviation of the programme for the endorsement of forest certification schemes. it is implemented by the international supervisory organization that
    inspects forest certification schemes independently created in various countries and promotes mutual recognition between these schemes.
 3 the pefc is a forest certification program that promotes sustainable forest management by offering certification from third parties independent of
    stakeholders.



    results

volume handled
the volume of certified timber and plantation timber handled in fiscal 2011 was approximately 1.45 million m3
(70% of the timber handled by sumitomo forestry).
also, the percentage of the total volume of logs purchased that were fsc certified timber was 45%. when
pefc, sfi4, and other certification schemes are included, this figure becomes 60%.

major forestry certifications

     type of forestry
                                                                    name of certified division or company
        certification

            forestry              forestry & environmental business department, forestry & environment division
            certification         (company-owned forests)

            coc
            certification         international marketing department, timber & building materials division (pre-cut materials),
 sgec
            (group-wide           housing division (pre-cut materials)
            certification)

            coc
                                  sumitomo forestry wood products co., ltd., and sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.
            certification

            fm certification pt. kutai timber indonesia (reforestation cooperative), open bay timber ltd.

                                  international marketing department and timber & building materials department, timber &
 fsc® coc                         building materials division; sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.; kowa lumber co., ltd.; alpine
            certification         mdf industries pty. ltd.; pt. kutai timber indonesia; sumitomo forestry (singapore) ltd.;
                                  nelson pine industries ltd.; open bay timber ltd.

            coc                   international marketing department and timber & building materials department, timber &
 pefc
            certification         building materials division


4 abbreviation of the sustainable forest initiative. estublished by american paper and forest association in 1994.


acquiring fsc® certification for its timber from a plantation forest in papua new guinea, the
first time in this country
open bay timber ltd. (obt) acquired fsc®fm / coc certification in september 2011 for its plantation in
papua new guinea. the tree species it is planting is the eucalyptus deglupta (local name：kamerere), which
is conventionally harvested 18 years after planting. obt acquired fsc certification for 11,770 hectares of the
31,260 hectares of plantation forest that it manages.

   link to the news release: “open bay timber, sumitomo forestry group company in papua new guinea,
   acquires fsc certification” (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20111012.pdf)




                                                                            205                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                 environmental report > preserving forests



sales of environmentally sound plyw ood kikorin-
plywood
in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry launched sales of the
environmentally sound plywood kikorin-plywood. more than
50% of the raw materials used to manufacture kikorin-plywood
are timber from forests certified by fsc® or pefc, as well as from
plantation forests that are sustainably managed. in fiscal 2011, the
volume of kikorin-plywood sold was 31,524m3. a portion of the                      kikorin-plywood
sales from this product are allocated to the company’s planting
activities in indonesia to contribute to the environment.

sales volume of kikorin-plywood

       fy2009                fy2010                 fy2011

       2,224m3              10,224m3               31,524m3


   future plans

initiatives are being implemented under the new action plan stipulated by the timber procurement philosophy
and policy.

  link in this report: “action plan for timber procurement” (p.20)




     i think it’s wonderful that a virtuous cycle is being created in which income from plywood is used
     for future forest plantation. (customer)




                                                       206                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                   environmental report > preserving forests



  implementing large-scale commercial forest plantation business


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is conducting a large-scale commercial forest plantation business in cooperation with alas
kusuma group, a company involved in the forestry management and plywood manufacturing businesses in
indonesia. as well as realizing the stable supply of timber, this initiative not only contributes to the economic
development of the local community by providing employment for local residents in commercial forest plantation
operations, but also to the preservation of biodiversity.


   results

implementing full-scale plantation operations
this initiative classifies forestland degraded by illegal logging and slash-and-burn farming, into three areas: (1)
forests preservation zones, (2) buffer zones, and (3) forestation zones. by further classifying forestation zones
by environmental factors such as soil composition and moisture content, the initiative matches forestation
operations to local environmental conditions. full-scale plantation operations started in 2010.

promoting initiatives and research into the “right tree for the
right site”
aiming for sustainable commercial plantation forestry that contributes to the
preservation of biodiversity, sumitomo forestry identifies areas to protect,
such as riparian forests, and carries out mosaic planting whereby
forestation is undertaken only in designated areas suited for that purpose.
in addition, the company continues to undertake research into the suitability
of trees in specific areas, selecting species of trees that are suited to the
land in the particular plantation site.                                                trees grown on an industrial
                                                                                                  plantation

   future plans

the plan is to expand the area of plantation operations from the current 140,000 hectares to 280,000
hectares.
when drawing up forestation plans in the future, the company is also considering the use of leading-edge
satellite information technology currently under development through joint research with the japan aerospace
exploration agency (jaxa)’s space open lab system.

  link in this report: “plantation forest operation using satellite information” (p.231)




     i want to see proactive initiatives to help restore destroyed tropical rainforest. (customer)




                                                        207                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     environmental report > preserving biodiversity




 biodiv ersity and sumitomo forestry’s operations


wood has been the axis of sumitomo forestry's businesses since its founding centuries ago. while many
companies are indirectly involved with biodiversity through their supply chains, at sumitomo forestry, forests
that nurture trees and support biodiversity are directly and inextricably its business field—and the company is
acutely aware of the critical importance of, and its responsibility for, biodiversity. moreover, wood is one of the
blessings it receives from biodiversity. if this blessing is lost, the company risks losing the foundation of its
business, thus it is imperative that it is proactively and aggressively involved with preserving and encouraging
biodiversity to an even greater degree than other companies.
   how our businesses are linked to biodiv ersity


        business domain                                     activities to preserve biodiversity

                                     ・ preservation of natural forests
forestry / environment operations    ・ biodiversity-friendly operations in company-owned forests
                                     ・ protection of rare animal and plant species

timber and building materials        ・ procurement of timber from forests where sustainable forestry is practiced
distribution / building materials    ・ manufacture and handling of products using certified timber and plantation timber
manufacturing                        ・ greenification of land where plants are located

housing / real estate /              ・ landscaping using native / indigenous plant species
landscaping                          ・ proactive use of japanese timber

                                     ・ switchover to plantation timber as raw materials
overseas operations                  ・ plantation operations that consider zoning and coexistence with the local
                                       community.

research and development             ・ conservation of precious germ-plasm stocks

                                     ・ regeneration of tropical rain forests
social contribution activities       ・ restoration of native forests at the mt. fuji manabi no mori
                                     ・ environmental education activities at the mt. fuji manabi no mori




     as trees are your ‘business partners,’ i think it is only natural that you put so much effort into
     preserving forests. (customer)
     i hope that sumitomo forestry becomes the leading supplier of timber to the world at the same
     time as aiming to preserve the diversity of natural resources in the environment, and that through
     these efforts it can spread and promote its environmentally sound approach throughout the
     forestry industry. (customer)



                                                          208                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > preserving biodiversity



 policy and plans for biodiv ersity preserv ation


   policy and plans

sumitomo forestry declared its commitment to preserve biodiversity when it revised its environmental
philosophy and set forth its timber procurement philosophy and policy in fiscal 2007. the company has
promulgated its policy on biodiversity preservation in company-owned forests in japan.

in fiscal 2009, to identify the impact of its businesses on biodiversity, the company conducted assessments
and evaluations—from the perspective of biodiversity—of its operations, particularly in those business
domains where it is thought its activities impact biodiversity. based on these results, in each business unit, it
sought out third-party perspectives from experts and specialists from ngos and npos to ensure that it
objectivity and effectively advances its activities.
in addition to creating its declaration of biodiversity, in fiscal 2011 the company defined its action guidelines
and long-term targets for biodiversity. going forward, the entire sumitomo forestry group will push ahead
with initiatives to preserve biodiversity in accordance with these three commitments.


   results

in march 2012, the sumitomo forestry group formulated its declaration on biodiversity, which sets out its
attitude and approach toward biodiversity; the biodiversity action guidelines, which establishes in-group
guidelines for its initiatives in the future; and its biodiversity long-term targets. these commitments were
created with reference to the aichi targets, which were adopted at the 10th conference of parties to the
convention on biological diversity (cop10), and were created after a comprehensive review of what the
group could feasibly achieve. going forward, each department will carry out initiatives based on the
declaration, action guidelines, and long-term targets, while also considering the advice from ngos, npos,
and other experts that were received at the opinion-exchange meeting held in march.
the group will make full use of this advice as it pushes ahead with key initiatives, in accordance with the
guidelines and the long-term targets.


   declaration of biodiv ersity

based on the declaration of biodiversity, the group’s activities to protect biodiversity are as follows.


    the sumitomo forestry group declaration of biodiversity

    the forefather to the sumitomo forestry group was founded more than three centuries ago, and
    since then we have developed our businesses while conserving forests, whose clear water, air,
    and soil are the source of life for many living creatures. going forward, we at sumitomo forestry
    will continue to place the greatest importance on preserving biodiversity through our forestry
    business for providing timber, which is a renewable and natural material, and for managing
    forests, which support diverse ecosystems. we shall also strive to help realize a sustainable
    society that exists in harmony with nature.




                                                       209                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                       environmental report > preserving biodiversity


   biodiv ersity action guidelines

the company formulated the following action guidelines to guide group companies as they actively pursue
initiatives to protect and promote biodiversity.


    the sumitomo forestry group’s biodiversity action guidelines

    1    position biodiversity as a key issue with the goal of coexisting with the environment and,
         together with its stakeholders, pursue initiatives to protect and promote biodiversity.
    2    ensure that each and every employee in the group understands the importance of
         biodiversity and acts while considering both the direct and indirect consequences of their
         actions on biodiversity.
    3    minimize the impact of all group activities on biodiversity
    4    through its timber and forest-related businesses, provide to society the gifts acquired from
         forest ecosystems and contribute to the improvement of people’s lives.


   biodiv ersity long-term targets

in order to globally develop its key biodiversity initiatives both within japan and overseas, the company
formulated the long-term targets described below. toward efficiently achieving these targets, it has also
established incremental time schedules for reaching each target, and going forward it will progress initiatives
specifically designed to achieve them.

                【the sumitomo forestry group’s biodiversity long-term targets: summary】

                                                  group-wide targets

      1 (aim to achieve sustainable forests)
        in all timber-related businesses, from upstream to downstream, work to prevent any reduction in forest
        areas and aim to achieve sustainable forests.
        ・ regenerate forests through reforestation and the recharging of natural resources and maitain logging
          to less than grown volume of the forest.
        ・ increase the procurement and use of sustainable timber, including forest certified timber, plantation
          forest timber, and japanese timber.
        ・ promote the effcient use of thimber and, recycle, and reuse timber.
      2 (increase the amount of co2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber)
        in order to increase the amount of co2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber, promote
        the use of timber by cultivating healthy forests and encouraging the use of timber construction materials
        and the construction of wooden buildings. in this way, contribute to the protection of biodiversity and
        help alleviate climate change.

                                                     individual targets

      3 (forests) promote forest management that regenerates, maintains, and increases biodiversity
        ・ carry out zoning that protects ecosystems and the habitats of living creatures.
        ・ maintain to 20% or above the percentage of the environment protection priority forests area of
          company-owned forests in japan.
        ・ maintain to 100% the percentage of company-owned forests in japan that are forest certified.
        ・ establish targets for protecting endangered species based on the results of the biodiversity
          monitoring conducted within company-owned forests in japan starting 2012.
        ・ conduct operations at plantation forests overseas while considering how best to contribute to local
          communities, economies and education.

                                                              210                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     environmental report > preserving biodiversity



                【the sumitomo forestry group’s biodiversity long-term targets: summary】

   4 (products)
     provide products and services that are considerate to biodiversity, such as forest-certified timber and
     products and services that have received an environmental assessment.
   5 (construction)
     work to develop homes and communities that are in harmony with the natural environment and their
     surrounding urban landscapes.
   6 (design)
     manage and minimize the generation of waste through promoting a zero-emissions policy in
     construction operations.
   7 (greening)
     be considerate to the surrounding ecosystems and tree species and actively cultivate native species.
   8 (plants)
     manage and minimize the generation of pollutants, waste, and noise pollution, and reduce their impact
     on biodiversity.
   9 (public relations)
     actively communicate the importance of biodiversity to all stakeholders, including customers, business
     partners, and local communities.
  10 (research)
     collect the latest information and develop preservation technologies in order to implement measures to
     protect biodiversity.
  11 (social contribution)
     protect those trees that are historically and culturally important and also preserve their genetic material.




link to news release: ranked highest in dbj environmental ratings
(http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20120427.pdf)
link in this report: meeting held to exchange opinions on the biodiversity long-term targets (p.30)
link in this report: awards and evaluation by non-group third parties (p.40)




  it is wonderful that you go as far as preserving and promoting biodiversity in your business
  activities. i also think your harmonic plants™ are very interesting. (housewife)
  i hope you continue with your plantation forests both within japan and overseas, but i think an
  approach of selecting the right tree for the right region is also very important. (customer)




                                                          211                               sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > preserving biodiversity




 preserv ation initiativ es at company-owned forests in japan


the company has created the sumitomo forestry red data book
to list the rare flora and fauna that might exist in company-owned
forests, and provides training to those who work in these forests.
this data book was created with reference to the red data book
published by prefectural authorities, and is updated whenever
necessary. forests are subject to appropriate zoning based on
criteria such as tree growth volume, and efforts are being made to
protect areas around water, which are rich in biodiversity, through
the creation of a riparian forest management manual.                          sumitomo forestry red data book

since fiscal 2008, the company has conducted monitoring surveys
of the habitation status of mammalian and avian species in company-owned forests. in order to ascertain the
long-term impact of logging and plantation operations on mammalian and avian species, surveys will be
conducted in the regions of hokkaido, shikoku, kyushu and wakayama, with one of the four regions being
surveyed each year. therefore, the plan is to survey the same region once every four years.

in 2012, the company plans to conduct its second monitoring survey to assess the habitation status of
mammalian and avian species in company-owned forests in the shikoku region.




     i think it’s wonderful that sumitomo forestry is carrying out very specific activities, such as
     creating the red data book and conducting monitoring surveys. (customer)




                                                       212                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                       environmental report > preserving biodiversity




policy on biodiversity preservation in company-owned forests in japan
(excerpt)
(formulated september 2006)

1. diversity of ecosystems
   we will properly manage strictly protected areas designated under the natural parks law and
   other legislation in a manner stipulated by the law. in other areas, we will ensure continuity of
   forests by limiting the area of forest harvested, particularly when clear cutting is conducted.

2. diversity of species
   we will work to prevent a decline in the number of species existing in natural forests by
   refraining from expansive planting projects and other extreme activities involving the
   replacement of species that would have a major impact on existing ecosystems. we will also
   give the utmost consideration to the protection of rare flora and fauna in all operations,
   making reference to the sumitomo forestry red data book.

3. genetic diversity
   genetic variation and the maintenance of populations to support them will become issues in
   the future. however, analysis is complicated and therefore we will closely watch monitoring
   activities carried out by government and public institutions and their findings.




monitoring surveys of mammalian and avian species in company-owned
forests

as part of a monitoring program for sgec1 forestry certification, in may 2011 sumitomo forestry
conducted a monitoring survey of company-owned forests in wakayama prefecture. mammalian
and avian species were surveyed and photographed at fixed locations to obtain the basic
information needed to preserve biodiversity in company-owned forests and determine the impact
of logging on the surrounding environment.
in june 2011, it also conducted a monitoring survey of company-owned forests in the shikoku
region (momi no ki yama). in conjunction with the adoption by the company of a new method of
small-area clear cutting at momi no ki yama this survey was designed to evaluate what effect
this method was having on biodiversity. this monitoring survey will be continued over a period of
several years and survey items will include effects on plants, insects, and soil animals.

1 japan's own forestry certification system through which forest management is verified as sustainable by third parties. certification is
   based on seven criteria that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources.


survey results

the survey confirmed the presence of the asian black bear and the japanese serow in
company-owned forests in wakayama.




                                                                      213                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                        environmental report > preserving biodiversity



confirmed mammalian and avian species in the surveyed area

 survey year                2008                   2009                  2010                  2011

                               shikoku                kyushu              hokkaido            wakayama

mammalian
                                      14                     11                    10                    12
species

avian species                         31                    33                     38                    25

                                                                                             asian black
main important               japanese              japanese                                            bear
                                                                               sable
species2                        squirrel                serow                                  japanese
                                                                                                    serow


2 species included in red data book by national or regional stipulation (designated as endangered species) under the act for protection
   of cultural properties, act for preservation of species, prefectural ordinances, and other laws and ordinances.


no. of confirmed species sightings in company-owned forests in the shikoku region
  (momi no ki yama) in 2011

                                                                                  main, important
                                                   no. of species
                                                                                        sightings

                                                                                              aburachan
plants (plant survey)                                                   33
                                                                                     (lindera praecox)

insects (butterfly survey)                                                1     dryad (minois dryas)

                                                                                        aphaenogaster
insects (bate trap survey3)                                               7
                                                                                                 famelica

                                                                                          stenoluperus
insects (sweeping survey4)                                              28
                                                                                            nipponensis

soil animals5                                                           71       ligidium japonicum


3 bate trap survey: a cup or similar object is buried in the ground and ground-walking species of insects that fall into the cup are
   collected
4 sweeping survey: a net is swept over the top of trees, grass, and flowers and stationary insects are collected
5 soil animals survey: soil insects are collected from within a quadrat of 0.5×0.5m, including those on the surface of the soil


based on the results of the monitoring survey conducted in company-owned forests in
wakayama, regional environmental planning, inc., the company that conducted the survey,
made the following observations on the impact of clear cutting upon mammalian and avian
species.

1. mammalian species
   in addition to ascertaining the effects of clear cutting in the clear cutting area, the survey
   confirmed that while there was a fairly large number of confirmed sightings of herbivores, due
   to the fence erected to prevent the entry of deer, only a few species were observed; namely,
   hare (lepus brachyurus) and japanese sika deer. in addition, although only a small number
   of animal species were observed in the clear-cutting area, a variety of species were found to
   be present in the adjacent forest area. therefore, as plant life recovers it is thought that in
   the future these clear-cutting areas will also become habitats for a variety of living creatures.



                                                                      214                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                          environmental report > preserving biodiversity



2. avian species
   the effects of clear cutting were conspicuous. only a few bird species were confirmed in the
   clear-cutting areas, and there was an obvious difference between clear-cutting areas and the
   surrounding forest in terms of bird numbers, species, formation of groups, and territories.
   however, it is considered that this result indicates not a situation in which birds were
   completed segmented between the two areas, but rather a situation in which continuity was
   comparatively well maintained. from these observations, it is thought that, going forward, bird
   species will increase as plant life recovers in clear-cutting areas.

3. shared
   the area covered by this survey supports a wide variety of mammalian and avian species.
   umbrella species6, such as asian black bear, and endangered species, such as the
   japanese serow (capricornis crispus), great spotted woodpecker (dendrocopos major), and
   the japanese thrush (turdus cardis) are confirmed and thus, it is thought that habitats
   capable of supporting a diverse range of mammalian and avian species are being preserved.

the company will continue to carry out the monitoring survey in collaboration with regional
environmental planning, inc., with the goal of accumulating data to ascertain what effects its
forestry operations are having on the surrounding forest and to investigate forestry methods that
will minimize any adverse impact. moreover, it is also using the results of the surveys to set
appropriate numerical values for targets.

6 the species at the top of the food chain




i’d like sumitomo forestry to continue listening to third-party viewpoints and tackle the issues
even more. (student)




                                                  215                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                environmental report > preserving biodiversity




 preserv ation of ov erseas plantation forests


   policy & plans

indonesia has the third largest area of rainforest in the world, but it is said that around 700,000 hectares of
forest are lost each year due to factors including forest fires, illegal logging and slash-and-burn farming.
sumitomo forestry is working to curb the decline in rainforests and preserve biodiversity through reforestation.

   results

sumitomo forestry has a large-scale commercial forest plantation in west kalimantan, indonesia. in order to
protect precious forests, forest plantation is being carried out using techniques matched to specific areas,
based on appropriate zoning that takes biodiversity into consideration.

  link in this report: “implementing large-scale commercial forest plantation business” (p.207)

reforestation based on appropriate zoning




                                                        216                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                environmental report > preserving biodiversity




  landscaping operations that help to preserv e biodiv ersity


    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry and sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. have named the biodiversity-friendly plants
and trees to be used in landscaping, “harmonic plants®1,” and actively promote them.

through the landscaping business, the companies have been encouraging planting that includes native
species, and aiming for promotion of biodiversity, they have clearly classified the trees and plants used in
landscaping from the perspective of biodiversity as “harmonic plants®”, so that species having a clearly
adverse impact on local ecosystems are not used.
the conservation level for the planned planting site is classified into one of four area types—protected area,
conservation area, satoyama area (countryside close to rural communities), city area—and “local seedlings”,
“native plants” and “cultivatable species” are used according to the impact on each area’s ecosystem. in the
landscaping of residential gardens, consideration is given to the color of the space by incorporating certain
cultivatable species and introduced plants that do not affect the local ecosystem, rather than limiting planting
only to native plants.

the thinking behind “harmonic plants®




1 protected areas do not include “harmonic plants®,” as the artificial transplanting or introduction of plants is not permitted.




                                                                               217                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                              environmental report > preserving biodiversity


approach to planting areas




in residential exterior landscaping, the company is promoting the “mou hitotsu no mori-zukuri™” (making
another forest) project for the greenification of towns and residences, primarily using plants that are native to
the region, including cultivatable species.


   results

continued participation in green wave 2011
continuing on from 2010, sumitomo forestry participated as a partner organization in green wave 2011, an
event to encourage awareness of biodiversity and promote biodiversity initiatives that was organized by the
ministry of the environment; the ministry of agriculture, forestry and fisheries; and the ministry of land,
infrastructure, transport and tourism. the company's main contribution to this project was distributing
approximately 9,000 tree seedlings of native japanese species at sumitomo forestry's 287 model homes
throughout japan in 2011, from april 23 to may 5.

planting at new model homes
at new model homes since 2010, the company has planted “harmonic plants®” focused on japanese native
species, and has been popularizing residential landscaping that takes ecosystems into consideration. it carried
out the planting in 2011 at its kawagoe model house in kawagoe city, saitama prefecture; its sengawa model
house in chofu city, tokyo; and at its kohoku model house in yokohama city, kanagawa prefecture.

launch of tree production technology association, building of local seedling production
netw ork
even plants classified as being the same species can have different
genes according to the region in which they are found naturally.
in order to produce local seedlings whose existing mother (seed)
trees have grown natively in each region since ancient times, a
tree production technology association made up of sumitomo
forestry landscaping co., ltd. and tree producers was launched
and has been developing its operations.
on land of cooperating farms in oita prefecture, around 2,600
seedlings comprising approximately 33 species are being cultivated,
                                                                            acorns of the evergreen oak (quercus
including the evergreen oak (quercus myrsinifolia), the maple                myrsinifolia) collected in an area of
(acer) , and the hill cherry (prunus jamasakura).                                      untouched nature
going forward, seedlings that are native to local areas will be sold
to local government bodies promoting the preservation of public forests, and to companies planning the
greenification of offices and factories.

                                                       218                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                              environmental report > preserving biodiversity


  future plans

sumitomo forestry is committed to ongoing activities that take biodiversity into consideration, promoting the
preservation of ecosystems, by further tightening the selection criteria for plants handled by the landscaping
business, and by strengthening the dissemination of information about the appeal and value of this business
through “harmonic plants®”.




     i think your plantation forest operations and efforts to protect the environment are wonderful. i
     hope that you continue to protect the environment and biodiversity both overseas and in japan.
     (housewife)




                                                       219                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                               environmental report > preserving biodiversity




 biodiv ersity at plants


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. is conducting biodiversity conservation activities optimized for the local
communities where its production facilities are located, under the shared objective of “providing habitats for
local species and rest areas through conservation of plant life indigenous to the local community.”

   results

plan to cultivate beach silvertop (glehnia littoralis) at the
kashima plant
plans are underway to cultivate the endangered plant species,
beach silvertop (glehnia littoralis), which is native to the sandy
beaches of kashima. in fiscal 2009, sumitomo forestry crest co.,
ltd. began cultivation in planter boxes of beach silvertop seeds
received from kamisu city. but based on the fact that germination
was not confirmed in fiscal 2010, it has been protecting the growth
of those seedlings that were divided immediately after germination            settled planting of beach silvertop
and transferred to planter boxes. going forward, it will attempt to
increase the harvest of seeds and the number of seedlings at the same time as conducting testing to
determine the optimum timing for transferring the seedlings to permanent planting locations at beaches.


bird-friendly planting at no. 2 kyushu plant of sumitomo
forestry crest co., ltd.
sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. conducted a survey in order to
ascertain the bird species present within the grounds of the no. 2
kyushu plant and the surrounding areas, and also to determine
which non-invasive species of trees were most compatible with
these species of birds. from among the various species of trees
considered, trees were selected for planting based on a
comprehensive consideration of such factors as whether the                     planting at the no.2 kyushu plant
species was an evergreen or deciduous tree and whether it was a
tall growing or short-growing variety. planting is being carried out at locations close to the kyushu plant where
such varieties of trees were not conventionally found.




                                                        220                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                    environmental report > management of hazardous materials




 management of chemical substances at research institute and plants


the sumitomo forestry tsukuba research institute and the plants belonging to sumitomo forestry crest co.,
ltd. use chemical substances in laboratory work and production. the tsukuba research institute prepared the
chemical substance management manual based on a pollution prevention agreement it entered into with the
city of tsukuba. in accordance with this manual, the institute established an organizational structure for
chemical substances management and prescribed methods for receiving, storing, using, and disposing of
chemical substances. in 2010, a new chemical substance disaster response manual was created to
prescribe matters including pre- and post-disaster response, and preventive measures.

sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd’s plants take precautions to prevent chemical leaks and other environmental
accidents. they have prepared environment-related operations manuals that prescribe methods for waste
disposal, water treatment, and the handling of organic solvents, among other matters. the plants are also
measuring concentrations of air and water pollutants and organic solvents in exhaust gas.




                                                       221                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                          environmental report > management of hazardous materials


prtr substances
  unit: kg (excluding dioxins, which is shown in mg-teq)


prtr substances
                                                                                          unit: kg (excluding dioxins, which is shown in mg-teq)


 substance
                      chemical          volume                    emissions
 no. (prtr                                                                                                          transfer                           consumed1
                      substance          used        emissions    to public    emissions     on-site      total                transfers     total
   law)                                                                                                               as
                                                       to air      sewage       to soil      landfill   emissions              to sewage   transfers
                                                                                                                     waste
                                                                   system

               acrylic acid and its
           4                              4,301.00         0.00        15.00        0.00        0.00        15.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       4,303.00
               water-soluble salts

           7   n-butyl acrylate         13,234.00          0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00      36.00        0.00      36.00      13,198.00

          13   acetonitrile                   4.68         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00       4.68        0.00        4.68           0.00

          84   glyoxal                    2,780.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00       5.60        0.00        5.60       2,780.00

       127     chloroform                     0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00           0.00

       134     vinyl acetate          1,820,324.00    3,400.00         83.00        0.00        0.00     3,483.00       0.00        0.00        0.00   1,826,237.00

       186     dichloromethane          72,800.10    66,025.10          0.00        0.00        0.00    66,025.10   4,375.00        0.00    4,375.00       2,400.00

       243     dioxins                      87.47        85.18          0.00        0.00        0.00        85.18       2.29        0.00        2.29           0.00

               1,2,4-
       296                                    0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00           0.00
               trimethylbenzene

               1,3,5-
       297                                    0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00           0.00
               trimethylbenzene

       300     toluene                    5,990.16    5,990.16          0.00        0.00        0.00     5,990.16       0.00        0.00        0.00           0.00

       302     naphthalene                    0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00           0.00

       349     phenol                   28,080.00          0.00         6.80        0.00        0.00         6.80    600.00         0.00     600.00      28,080.00

               the water-soluble
               salts of
       395                                2,363.00         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00       6.00        0.00        6.00       2,377.00
               peroxydisulfuric
               acid

               poly(oxyethylene)
       407     alkyl ether                1,553.00         0.00        13.00        0.00        0.00        13.00       2.00        0.00        2.00       1,551.00
               (alkylc=12-15)

       411     formaldehyde            155,589.00        47.00         13.00        0.00        0.00        60.00    350.00         0.00     350.00     155,709.00

       415     methacrylic acid           1,220.00         0.00         4.00        0.00        0.00         4.00       0.00        0.00        0.00       1,216.00

               methylenebis
       448     (4,1- phenylene)           1,355.90         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00      13.60        0.00      13.60        1,342.30
               diisocyanate




                                                                                   222                                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                           environmental report > management of hazardous materials



emissions of nox and sox

                                      emissions
         substance
                                       (unit: kg)

 sulfur oxides (sox)                           2,623

 nitrogen oxides (nox)                         1,805

 soot and dust                                 6,763



effluent water quality survey results (no. 2               effluent water quality survey results (tsukuba research
  kyushu plant)                                              institute)

                                       effluent                                                                          effluent
 item2 unit measured                               3                      item                 unit   measured
                                    standards                                                                         standards4

 ph         -               7.5            5.0～9.0         ph                                   -               7.5        5.8～8.6

 cod     mg/ℓ             28.4                     40      bod5                                mg/ℓ               4              160

 ss      mg/ℓ               3.4                    50      ss                                  mg/ℓ               3              200

 t-n     mg/ℓ               2.8                    60      total n-hexane extract
                                                           substances (total mineral           mg/ℓ   less than 1                   5
 t-p     mg/ℓ             0.03                         8
                                                           oils)

                                                           total n-hexane extract
                                                           substances (total plant and         mg/ℓ   less than 1                 30
                                                           animal fats/oils)

                                                                                                         less than
                                                           total phenols                       mg/ℓ                      0.5 or less
                                                                                                             0.025


2 ph = concentration of hydronium ions, cod = chemical oxygen demand, ss = suspended solids,
   t-n = total nitrogen, t-p = total phosphorous
3 effluent standards uses values stipulated by prefectural ordinance.
4 effluent standards uses values stipulated by the water pollution control act.
   total phenols uses standards required by the tsukuba city pollution prevention agreement.
5 bod＝biological oxygen control




                                                                           223                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                   environmental report > management of hazardous materials



 proper treatment of building materials containing asbestos


the sumitomo forestry group has secured appropriate disposal routes for asbestos. countermeasures for
prevention of asbestos being released into the air during home demolition work are detailed in the guide for
appropriate measures during demolition work, which sets forth policies for construction management. the
company also discloses information about asbestos use and countermeasures via its website.
in fiscal 2011, asbestos was discovered at the sites of the nagoya plant of sumitomo forestry crest co.,
ltd., and the former iwaki branch business office and warehouse of daiichisansho co. ltd. work was carried
out to remove and process the asbestos at these locations in accordance with the air pollution control act
and the waste disposal act.



 storage and proper treatment of polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs)


sumitomo forestry properly manages polychlorinated biphenyl (pcb) waste and prevents leakage to the soil
by keeping it in sealed metal containers inside designated, locked steel warehouses marked for stored goods.
each branch and division has arranged to gradually dispose of stored pcbs based on proper disposal
implementation plans.
in fiscal 2010, following the sale of sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.’s komatsushima plant, equipment units
stored at the komatsushima plant were transferred to this company’s kyushu plant. trace amounts of pcb
waste were found on one unit and waste containing pcbs was found on six units. these units are now being
processed and stored appropriately.



 measures against volatile organic compounds (vocs)


  policy & plans

sumitomo forestry is working to reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (vocs) in sumitomo
forestry home houses, which have been identified as a cause of “sick house” syndrome.


  results

  only “f         ”-rated building materials, furniture, lighting systems, and curtains—which have the lowest
  level of formaldehyde emissions—are used
  cosmetic plasterboards that absorb and break down formaldehyde are used inside closets. only tatami mats
  that do not contain foamed polystyrene are used. efforts are also being made to reduce toluene and xylene.




                                                      224                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                            environmental report > efficient use of water resources




  reducing volume and using recycled water at plants


   policy & plans

of the sumitomo forestry group's domestic manufacturing facilities, the no. 2 kyushu plant of sumitomo
forestry crest co., ltd., which manufactures synthetic resin adhesives and other products, is a designated
facility under the stipulations of the water pollution control law. the other factories primarily manufacture
processed wood products such as plywood and housing interior materials and thus do not use large amounts
of water. nonetheless, efforts to use water as efficiently as possible are being made at all sumitomo forestry
manufacturing facilities.

   results

measures to cut dow n on water usage
the no. 2 kyushu plant of sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd. uses industrial water to cool manufacturing
equipment, then reuses it to dilute plant effluent, and processes it appropriately as industrial effluent. the four
initiatives described below are ongoing in order to reduce the amount of water used. however, due to the
reason described below, in fiscal 2011 the volume of industrial water used increased by 11% compared with
the previous fiscal year.

the water quality of industrial effluent is processed so that it meets the standard set in prefectural regulations,
but an inspection of water quality in fiscal 2010 found that on occasions, its cod value1 was close to
exceeding the standard. therefore, in fiscal 2011 the plant had to increase the volume of industrial water used
in order to stably keep this value well below the standard.

going forward, in addition to continuously implementing the four measures described below, sumitomo
forestry group will work to decrease the volume of industrial water that it uses through efforts including the
launch of a project to improve its effluent technologies and the processing of effluent with the absolute
minimum level of dilution water.

 1. redesign production plans to match the actual production sequence in order to decrease the number of
     times equipment is washed.
 2. recirculate some of the water used to wash equipment for reuse as a raw material.
 3. cover a storage pool for effluent with a roof to prevent rain from increasing wastewater volume.
 4. enhance the efficiency of rainwater use (including by measures to upgrade the pumps used to collect
     rainwater)

1 chemical oxygen demand. this shows the amount of oxygen required to oxidize an organic compound in water and is considered one of the most
   important indicators of water quality.




                                                                       225                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                      environmental report > efficient use of water resources



using recycled water
some 360,000m3 of recycled and reused water is utilized every year at
the no. 2 kyushu plant and niihama plant of sumitomo forestry crest
co., ltd. through such efforts as recycling the water used in water
curtain spray booths and reusing treated wastewater.



                                                                                 roof covering treated water storage
                                                                                                   pool




     i hope that you measures to maintain and protect forests and the environment also reflect the
     importance of water. (customer)




                                                       226                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                       environmental report > environment-related businesses




 aim of env ironment-related businesses


the sumitomo forestry group is deeply interconnected with forests, which play a central role in solving global
environmental problems, including global warming. its environment-related businesses include sustainable
plantation forest operations that respect biodiversity, biomass power generation, environmental greening
operations, and environmentally friendly products, as well as many other fields that hold potential for
commercialization. leveraging our accumulated expertise and knowledge, we offer tree-related consulting
services, and have built a business model on these services for actually implementing our ideas on site. this
is embodied in our environmental problem solutions business, which realizes sustainable use of natural
resources while harmonizing with the environment and the local community.




     i would like to see sumitomo forestry plays an active role in environmental planning for the entire
     region. (expert)




 expanding the scope of the company’s biodiv ersity greening business


  policy & plans

today, protecting biodiversity has become an important issue, and this has prompted a range of initiatives
involving the use of corporate green zones.
sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd., which is involved in a variety of greening and biodiversity-related
businesses, such as rural regeneration projects, has collaborated with the ms&ad insurance group and
regional environmental planning inc., to create eco-assettm to provide consulting services to companies,
mainly for biodiversity greening in corporate green zones. from october 2011, sumitomo forestry has also
participated in this organization through its eco-asset team and is aiming to expand the scope of its
environmental business through the team’s activities.




                                                        227                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                   environmental report > environment-related businesses


    results

redevelopment of mitsui sumitomo insurance’s land in the surugadai district
the company is aiming to recreate mitsui sumitomo insurance’s land in the surugadai district (chiyoda ward,
tokyo), which is located 1km away from the imperial palace, into a green city space that reflects the abundant
nature found in the palace. it is currently pushing ahead with this redevelopment to create a green space that
will attract a variety of living creatures. the eco-asset team began collaborating with this redevelopment
project when an application was made for recognition as a special urban development area. construction of
the new building was completed in february 2012, while repairs to the adjacent main building began in may
2012. in addition to exterior landscaping, sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. received orders to
undertake a variety of other greening projects for the redevelopment, including wall greening, eaves greening,
and planting roadside trees.
in fiscal 2011, this project was awarded the highest possible ranking of superlative stage in the recently
renewed social and environmental green evaluation system1 (seges) assessment, making it the first project
in japan to receive this ranking.

1 focusing on corporate green zones that contribute to society and the environment through activities to protect and cultivate greenery, this ‘green awards’
   system evaluates initiatives and certifies those that are particularly excellent.


panasonic's biodiversity greening plan
in 2011, the eco-asset team carried out environmental evaluations at 121 panasonic group business sites
throughout japan. among the sites evaluated, the kadoma and moriguchi area in osaka was considered to be
particularly environmentally important and an initiative was launched at this location to create a business site
that also functioned as a bio-reserve for living creatures. this included removing part of the parking lot and the
grounds and preparing a green zone, primarily for attracting butterflies. construction for this project was
completed in march 2012, and its success in attracting living creatures to the yodogawa water network in the
northern area and the tsurumi ryokuchi park southern area is currently being confirmed.

a greening plan that protects biodiversity in a greenbelt in a coastal industrial zone
during the period of rapid economic growth in japan, large-scale green belts were created in coastal industrial
zone, one of which is located near chita city, aichi prefecture. in the subsequent 40 years, the tree saplings
planted in this green zone have grown to create a forest that serves as the habitat to many living creatures,
and moreover forms the basis for a number of regional ecosystems. a movement has gained momentum
among companies in the coastal area of chita city to integrate the land that they each own within this green
zone with the aim of contributing to the region in which they planted their own roots as businesses.
the eco-asset team has been providing consulting services on biodiversity to individual companies that own
land in the greenbelt, and it is also participating in the new public services support model, a project to utilize
corporate green zones and protect the region’s natural environment.

a forest maintenance program for forest of co-creating a brighter future at daiw a house
industry land in hayama
daiwa house industry ltd. announced that it would use 330 hectares of its unused land in hayama town,
miura-gun, kanagawa prefecture to create a nature-encounter facility, which it will open as a base for nature
activities in the region. various stakeholders are participating in the plan and will utilize the facility for a range
of uses, such as growing firefly, farming, and for hiking and running trails. during fiscal 2011, the eco-asset
team focused its efforts into ecosystem surveys and stakeholder analyses, and based on the results of a
potential assessment, in fiscal 2012 it will push ahead with the fundamental measures set out in the plan to
utilize the green areas.



                                                                                 228                                  sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                           environmental report > environment-related businesses


   future plans

the company will work to develop new environmental businesses, using its greening operations as the
gateway into these businesses.



 treasured and precious trees propagation business


   policy & plans

one of sumitomo forestry’s businesses has been developing technologies for breeding trees with the same
qualities as treasured trees and precious trees in various regions, in order for future generations to benefit
from these trees.


   results

developing a technology to identify cherry tree varieties
through an analysis of their dna
the cherry tree is the flowering tree most synonymous with japan,
and breeding to create new varieties has taken place here since the
muromachi period. as a result, it is said that today there are more
than 250 varieties of cherry tree. however, it is extremely difficult to
identify the variety solely from the tree’s external appearance, and
therefore sumitomo forestry collaborated with the forestry and
forest products research institute, a national institute of genetics,                         dna extraction
and the association for the propagation of knowledge on genetics,
to jointly develop a technology to identify the variety through dna markers.

completing a dna database of approximately 200 cultivated varieties
in march 2010, the company completed the creation of a database of 200 varieties of cherry trees for which
dna information was available, in collaboration with the forestry and forest products research institute,
using the above-described identification technology. the database clearly identifies and organizes the data on
individual varieties, making it possible to accurately identify and manage the data in the future.

successful breeding of yuten cherry tree (protected species) using plant tissue culture
techniques
the yuten cherry tree is an ancient breed found at seigan-ji temple, tokyo, that has been designated a
protected species in shinagawa ward. due to the advanced age of the trees and rapid changes in the
environment in recent years, the trees have shown signs of decay in their canopies, raising the need to plant
successors. in 2011, sumitomo forestry co., ltd. and sumitomo forestry landscaping co., ltd. were
successful in breeding seedlings of these trees, using their plant tissue culture techniques based on progress
made thus far in development and applied research.
in addition, during their most recent investigation, the companies used the database of cherry tree dna to
attempt to identify the dna of the yuten cherry tree and they concluded that it is highly likely that it is a new
variety. the company is also involved in a range of other initiatives to breed and preserve japan’s historically
and culturally important trees.

  link to the news release: success in breeding yuten cherry tree using plant tissue culture technigues
  (http://sfc.jp/english/pdf/20110411.pdf)

                                                        229                                sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                         environmental report > environment-related businesses


   future plans

  the team will confirm whether the flowers, leaves and other parts of the cherry tree are the same, by
  checking the dna of the seedlings bred from the yuten cherry tree, and following up with flower petal
  research after they bloom. then it plans to use the incubated seedlings at commemorative and other events
  held at yuten-ji temple.
  the team also plans to identify the origins of unknown species of cherry trees using our cherry tree dna
  database and plant tissue culture techniques. it will apply this experience in our breeding business for
  treasured and precious trees throughout japan. it hopes to preserve these precious trees for future
  generations by understanding in depth the many varieties of trees, their identifying dna traits, diversity of
  the species and individual history.



  ov erseas reforestation consultancy


   policy & plans

backed by its knowledge of forest management in tropical regions, the company offers consulting services for
environmental reforestation and for the protection and cultivation of forests that takes into account local
communities, such as for the restoration of degraded forests in tropical regions and the rehabilitation of
biodiversity.


   results

tropical forest regeneration project w ith mitsui sumitomo insurance co., ltd.
with the aim of restoring degraded forests in national parks, sumitomo forestry has been working on a
reforestation project for the paliyan wildlife sanctuary in indonesia.
as a result of reforestation that began in april 2005 and continues today, it has planted around 300,000 trees
on 350 hectares of land, as of march 2011. from april 2011, with the goal of ‘creating a framework for the
independent protection by local people of abundant forest areas,’ the company launched a support project
to provide local people with guidance on farming methods that help to preserve forests, and has also created a
scheme through which local people can independently protect the forests once they have regenerated.




                before reforestation (september 2005)           after reforestation (december 2012)




                                                        230                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                            environmental report > environment-related businesses



industrial and environmental reforestation w ith roland corporation
since 2007, sumitomo forestry has participated in the industrial reforestation of lands managed by the
indonesian state owned forestry enterprise (perum perhutani) for the purpose of timber production, and also
in the environmental reforestation of these lands for the purpose of increasing watershed protection,
contributing to local economies and preventing global warming. for the former, 72.4 hectares have been
reforested, and some of the harvested trees were processed into fiberboards and used to build cabinets for
electric pianos made by roland corporation. for the latter, a total of 30.6 hectares have been reforested.
in addition to continuing with the cultivation carried out in fiscal 2011, the company has created a harvesting
plan for its industrial tree plantation in this region that it will launch during fiscal 2012.




             before reforestation (september 2007)                   after reforestation
                                                                     (december 2011)


   future plans

  tropical forest regeneration project with mitsui sumitomo insurance co., ltd.
  sumitomo forestry provides guidance for local people on the use of cultivation technologies for high-value
  added crops, support for the sale of these crops, in order to improve the quality of local people's lives
  through measures to prevent the degradation of forests. in addition, it continuously holds discussions with
  local governments and private sector organizations in the regions where it has plantation forests toward
  creating systems that will prevent forests that have recovered from becoming degraded once again.
  reforestation business with roland corporation
  starting in fiscal 2012, over a three year period the company processes timber from trees harvested at its
  industrial tree plantations to build cabinets for electric pianos made by the roland corporation



  plantation forest operation using satellite information


   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry has been developing a new business model for plantation forest operations based on data
from land-observing satellites. by using satellite information, environmental data of the planned site stretching
across a broad area can be obtained or estimated with a high degree of accuracy, which is extremely valuable
for conducting reforestation projects in developing countries.




                                                           231                              sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                      environmental report > environment-related businesses


   results

development of support tools for using satellite data in reforestation projects and feasibility
studies
in cooperation with the hiroshima institute of technology and kyoto university, sumitomo forestry proposed
an afforestation business model for developing nations using satellite data, and it was selected for the
space open lab in fiscal 2008. the industrial collaboration department of the japan aerospace exploration
agency (jaxa), an independent administrative organization, administers the space open lab project.
research on the project was conducted jointly with jaxa through the end of fiscal 2010.

based on knowledge gained from this joint research, the company has been developing a plantation
development support tool and conducting feasibility studies using satellite information in the company's
large-scale industrial plantation operation in plantation forest areas of west kalimantan in indonesia. the
satellite data has provided a detailed map of the land candidates for plantation forests, and it has helped with
forming estimates of the pace of growth of forests that have already been planted. in these ways, the satellite
data can increase the efficiency of plantation forestry operations.



  cdm business using wood biomass power generation


   policy & plans

on may 23, 2008, pt. rimba partikel indonesia’s (rpi) wood biomass power generation business, which
primarily uses lumber mill offcuts and sawdust as fuel, was registered by the cdm executive board at the
united nations as a clean development mechanism (cdm)1 project.
the generator, a wood biomass model with an output capacity of four megawatts, is expected to reduce annual
co2 emissions by 15,000 tons compared to the diesel generator it replaces.


   results

issuance of cer credits for 10,982t-co2
following an assessment by the united nations, in march 2011, cer2 credits for 10,982t-co2 were issued for
the fiscal 2009 portion. many cer credits issued to date have been for reducing cfc gas and nitrogen oxide,
or for reducing co2 emissions by using hydroelectric, wind power and other forms of clean energy. this time,
the cer credit was issued for rpi’s efforts in using wood biomass energy, an area that has not been cited
often for credits in the past.

  link in this report: reducing co2 emissions from plants (p.165)

sale of 6,000t of cer credits
during fiscal 2011, the company sold credits worth 6,600 tons of co2 to companies within japan from the
credits issued to it in march of the same year.




                                                       232                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                               environmental report > environment-related businesses


  future plans

the cer credits issued for the company’s various businesses are
being used for measures to help alleviate global warming, such as
for carbon offsetting and emissions rights trading schemes.

1 clean development mechanism (cdm): a system under which developing countries receive
   technologies and funding from advanced countries in order to encourage businesses to
   reduce emissions of greenhouse gases or increase their offset of greenhouse gases. in
   exchange, the advanced countries receive cers, which can be used to help achieve
   emissions targets at home.
2 certified emission reduction (cer): cer credits are certified by the united nations, which
   issues them based on the volume of greenhouse gas emissions reduced in accordance with
   cdm rules.                                                                                              rpi’s wood biomass boiler



 promoting wood biomass power generation


  policy & plans

by operating a biomass power generation facility that uses industrial waste wood generated by thinning forests
or demolition of buildings, the company promotes recycling of timber, efficient use of forest resources, and
contributes to stopping global warming by reducing co2 emissions.


  results

establishing a biomass pow er generation facility installed
w ith environmental equipment
sumitomo joint electric power co., ltd., fuluhashi epo
corporation, and sumitomo forestry jointly established kawasaki
biomass electric power co., ltd. in kawasaki city, kanagawa
prefecture, to operate a biomass power generation facility using
woodchips as fuel. japan bio energy co., ltd., a woodchip supply
company, was also established in a nearby location. the kawasaki
biomass electric power co., ltd. started operations in february                                      kawasaki biomass electric power co.,
2011 as the largest biomass power generation business in japan.                                        ltd. and japan bio energy co., ltd.
the facility is able to generate 33mw of power, which means it can
supply power for approximately 37,000 households consuming a typical amount of power, or for about 100,000
people. moreover, the facility is contributing to society by supplying power to help alleviate the power
shortages that have occurred in japan following the great east japan earthquake of march 2011.
in order to clear the strict environmental standards established by kawasaki city, kawasaki biomass electric
power co., ltd. has installed environmental equipment that no other regional biomass power facility uses,
including flue gas desulfurization equipment, an exhaust gas denitrizer, and a bag filter. moreover, as a
city-type biomass power generation facility it is working to improve the atmospheric environment.




                                                                         233                                   sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                       environmental report > environment-related businesses



building a system that supplies
wood waste as a fuel
japan bio energy makes woodchips out
of wood waste collected from the
construction of homes, and supplies it to
kawasaki biomass electric power co.,
ltd. as a fuel for its power generators.
the chip factory and power plant are
located next to each other, dramatically
cutting the amount of energy used to
transport the woodchips.


                                                                         business outline



   future plans

japan bio energy will work to secure biomass fuel to ensure stable power generation at maximum output, and
also develop other biomass fuels from forest resources and other unused biomass sources, such as food
waste.




     i want sumitomo forestry to partner with electric power companies and local residents to support
     lifestyles in the broadest sense of the meaning throughout society. (student)




 sale of first priv ate-sector domestic forest absorption-type offset credit (j-ver)


   policy & plans

the japan verified emission reduction (j-ver) system, an offset credit promoted by the ministry of the
environment as a measure to combat global warming, certifies carbon offset credits for domestic projects that
reduce emissions of or absorb greenhouse gases, in an amount equivalent to the amount of emissions
reduced or gases absorbed. the use of j-ver offset credits, a business model of utilizing offset credits to
improve profitability of forestry management, contributes to the revitalization of japan's forests.


   results

forest absorption-type j-ver offset credit
in july 2009, a company-owned forest* (miyazaki prefecture) was registered under the j-ver system as the
first sustainable forestry management promotion-type project. following validation, the j-ver credits issued
were used to offset co2 emissions generated at exhibitions and other events. under the j-ver system, in
fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010 a combined total of 4,234t-co2 worth of credits were issued to the company. as
the area within miyazaki prefecture covered by the system was expanded in order to meet the demand for
credits, in march 2012 the company was issued with credits worth 9,441t-co2.




                                                       234                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                       environmental report > environment-related businesses



j-ver offset credits sold to ochisangyo co., ltd.
continuing on from 2010, in july 2011 sumitomo forestry sold j-ver offset credits worth 30t-co2 to
ochisangyo co., ltd. these credits were used to offset 1kg of co2 per visitor to ochisangyo’s “i love home
fair” events, which it held at various locations in west japan. in total, 24.22t-co2 was offset for 24,220
people. the remaining credits will be used at other events and conferences sponsored by the company. the
company will once again offer credits to ochisangyo in fiscal 2012.

  link in this report: “offsetting co2 emissions through the j-ver system” (p.170)



 carrying out reforestation and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in ov erseas
 businesses

   policy & plans

sumitomo forestry considers redd+1, which is currently being investigated by the united nations, and the
bilateral offset credit mechanism (bocm), which the japanese government plans to introduce from 2013 as
a new mechanism for credits, to be promising business opportunities that warrant close examination.
therefore, with an eye to these frameworks the company is currently looking into the feasibility of initiatives in
vietnam and indonesia for the regeneration of degraded forests or those destroyed by forest fires, and also
into initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.


  results

investigating new mechanisms for regeneration of forests and biomass pow er generation in
vietnam
in 2011, the global environment centre foundation was contracted by the ministry of the environment to carry
out the new mechanism feasibility survey (http://gec.jp/main.nsf/en/activities-climate_change_mitigation-
fs2011newmex24). as part of this, the company has been conducting a feasibility survey for measures to
protect and regenerate forests in the son la province of west vietnam, where forests have been degraded
due to field burning, and also for reducing greenhouse gas emissions through biomass power generation using
timber procured from these sustainable forests. a large area of forest in this area has been degraded, but as
forests play an important role here as a water source for the hydro-electric dams that are dispersed throughout
the region, there is an urgent need for them to be protected and regenerated. in addition, this region is one of
the most deprived in vietnam, and the launch of a forest preservation and regeneration project will contribute
to environmental protection and sustainable development in the region, while the company is aiming to develop
projects that can acquire emissions credits in japan. the company is currently collaborating with the relevant
vietnamese government authorities, the vietnam university of forestry, and jica as it continues with its
survey.




                    conducting the survey                          the forests of son la province

                                                       235                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                    environmental report > environment-related businesses



measures to regenerate forests in indonesian peatlands
large volumes of carbon accumulate in peatlands. when this land is developed for farming, it must be dried by
drainage and as a result, the microorganisms in the soil decompose, which in turn causes the accumulated
carbon to be released into the atmosphere as co2. in addition, fires can occur in peatlands that have been
dried, which causes large quantities of co2 to be released into the atmosphere. both of these forms of co2
emissions contribute to global warming.
in fiscal 2011, the ministry of economy, trade and industry commissioned a survey on the feasibility of
reducing greenhouse gas emissions through measures to prevent large-scale fires in the peatlands in the
central part of kalimantan province, indonesia. sumitomo forestry collaborated with sumitomo corporation
and shimizu construction co., ltd. to carry out the survey, its role being to investigate methods of
regenerating the vegetation that would also benefit the local people and economy. it was able to contribute to
the project through constructing a new mechanism that can help prevent global warming by preserving the
peatland and ensuring that it is used appropriately.

1 an approach to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases from forests by preventing deforestation and forest degradation (redd: reduced emissions from
   deforestation and forest degradation). based on this approach, the goal is to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases through conserving and managing
   forests, such as by clarifying the role of forest conservation, managing sustainable forests, and increasing carbon stock from forests.




                                                                             236                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                      environmental report > environmental accounting




    policy & plans

sumitomo forestry calculates and publicizes the costs and benefits of its environmental conservation
activities to promote environmentally sound management.
note: the basis of calculation includes sumitomo forestry on a non-consolidated basis and certain group companies.


    results

environmental protection costs
                                                                                                                                  unit: million yen

                        cost category                                                        main activities                              cost

                                       pollution prevention
                                                                     soil contamination survey                                               0.41
                                       costs1

                                                                     sustainable forestry cultivation                                         648

                                       global environmental          environment-related business (cdm business,
                                                           2                                                                                  212
                                       protection costs              overseas reforestation, etc.)

 operations costs                                                    carbon offset                                                              76

                                                                     promotion of appropriate treatment, reduction, and
                                                                                                                                            3,586
                                                                     recycling of industrial waste
                                       resource recycling
                                                                     waste wood-based chip distribution operations                            183
                                       costs3
                                                                     potting mix business
                                                                                                                                              550
                                                                     (using sediment from water purification plants, etc.)

 upstream/downstream costs4                                          green purchasing                                                         197

                                                                     operation and promotion of environmental
                                                                     management (iso 14001 certification, environmental                       112
                                                                     education, lca surveys, etc.)

 management activity costs5                                          disclosure and administration of environmental
                                                                     information (environmental and social report,
                                                                                                                                            1,554
                                                                     environment-related advertising, environment-related
                                                                     exhibitions, etc.)

                                                                     research and development activities related to
 r&d costs6                                                                                                                                   303
                                                                     environmental conservation

                                                                     management and operation of mt. fuji manabi no
                                                                                                                                                23
                                                                     mori

                                                                     management and operation of forester house                                  8
 social contribution costs7
                                                                     participation in other social contribution activities                       2

                                                                     grants to the keidanren nature conservation fund,
                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                     etc.

                                                                                                                               total        7,456

                                                                         237                                    sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                            environmental report > environmental accounting


  1 pollution prevention costs: expenditures on soil contamination inspections
  2 global environmental protection costs: expenditures for preservation and management of company-owned forests to foster sustainable forestry, and
     expenditures in japan and overseas relating to the environmental business, overseas reforestation expenses for implementing carbon offset, and offset
     credit purchase expense.
  3 resource recycling costs: expenditures on waste wood distribution operations and sorting, recycling, appropriate treatment, transportation and
     management of construction waste, as well as costs incurred in the potting mix business.
  4 upstream/downstream costs: expenditures for green purchasing.
  5 management activity costs: office expenses and auditing costs relating to maintenance of iso 14001 certification; expenditures relating to disclosure of
     environmental information through advertising, environment-related exhibitions and the environmental and social reports; expenditures relating to
     lectures on environmental education; and costs for life cycle assessment inspections.
  6 r&d costs: expenditures for environment-related research conducted at the tsukuba research institute and expenditures for outsourced research and
     development by each division.
  7 social contribution costs: expenditures related to operating the mt. fuji manabi no mori natural forest restoration project; expenditures related to
     maintaining and operating forester house; expenditures related to other social contribution activities; and grants to the keidanren nature conservation
     fund and other contributions.



environmental benefits

                category                                                              description                                                 results

                                                volume of recycled waste wood from distribution operations
                                                                                                                                               1,186,000m3
                                                (converted into chip equivalents)
1. benefits from operations costs
                                                volume sold of potting mix using recycled sediment from water
                                                                                                                                                      25,000t
                                                purification

2. benefits from upstream and
                                                green procurement ratio                                                                                    71.8%
downstream costs

                                                number of people attending “sustainable forest gallery
3. benefits from management                                                                                                                     5,224people
                                                2011-kikorin’s forest”
activity costs
                                                employees designated as internal environmental auditors                                             59people

                                                standard installation of a highly functional, long-life, large-capacity
                                                household battery storage system launch of the sumitomo forestry                                           -
                                                smart house smart solabo
4. benefits from research and
                                                successful cultivation of seedlings from the ‘pine tree of hope’ in
development costs                                                                                                                                          -
                                                rikuzen-takata city

                                                started test planting of the omuro cherry tree using plant tissue
                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                culture techniques

                                                volunteers who participated in mt. fuji manabi no mori project                                    324people

5. benefits of social contribution              children participating in the environmental education program at mt.
                                                                                                                                                  546people
costs                                           fuji manabi no mori project

                                                visitors to forester house                                                                      2,407people




                                                                              238                                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                              environmental report > environmental data




 group companies in japan


data for plants in japan shows the environmental impact per company and per plant

   sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.


sumitomo forestry crest co., ltd.
                                                                                                                                           no. 2
                                                                            nagoya             niihama             kyushu
            item            kashima plant            shizuoka plant                                                                       kyushu           total
                                                                              plant              plant              plant
                                                                                                                                           plant

energy input                            24,152gj           25,885gj           33,931gj           22,258gj            32,820gj               15,159gj        154,205gj

raw material input                          6,663t              22,724t             9,918t             3,392t                 8,178t              4,412t          55,287t

water resource
consumption

    clean water                         3,431m 3            5,120m 3         14,664m 3             503m 3             2,480m 3                 147m 3       26,345m 3

                         lakes-
                                                                                                                ponds-
                         kasumigaura/kitaura                              rivers-kiso        groundwater
                                                                                                                tashiro pond
                         (protected area:            groundwater-oi       river basin        (niihama city
    main water source                                                                                           (partly in             reservoirs            -
                         partly in suigo-            river basin          (protected         bureau of
                                                                                                                protected
                         tsukuba quasi-                                   areas: n/a)        waterworks)
                                                                                                                forest)
                         national park)

    industrial water                -                       -                   -                 5,394m 3          26,352m 3             139,042m 3       170,788m 3

                                                                                                                rivers-arita           rivers-arita
                                                                                             groundwater        river basin            river basin
                                                                                             (niihama city      (partly in             (partly in
    main water source               -                       -                   -                                                                            -
                                                                                             bureau of          kurokamizan            kurokamizan
                                                                                             waterworks)        wildlife               wildlife
                                                                                                                preserve)              preserve)

greenhouse gas
emissions

    overall emissions              1,016t-co2            1,160t-co2         1,447t-co2          952t-co2          1,412t-co2               815t-co2        6,802t-co2

    emissions per base                                                          44.0kg-           280.2kg-                55.5kg-
                             105.6kg-co2/m 3            43.0kg-co2/t                                                                   78.1kg-co2/t          -
    unit                                                                       co2/m 3            co2/m 3             co2/m 3

volume of waste                             1,858t               1,819t             2,865t             1,053t                 1,699t                200t           9,493t

total water discharge

    sewage                              1,646m 3            -                   -                 4,826m 3                -                   -                  6,472m 3

    ocean area                            705m 3            -                  7,918m 3            -                      -                   -                  8,623m 3

    rivers                          -                       3,267m 3            -                  -                      -                   -                  3,267m 3

    lakes                           -                       -                   -                  -                27,264m 3             130,610m 3       157,874m 3




                                                                             239                                                 sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                    environmental report > environmental data



                                                                                                                                   no. 2
                                                                           nagoya          niihama          kyushu
            item              kashima plant          shizuoka plant                                                            kyushu               total
                                                                            plant             plant           plant
                                                                                                                                   plant

emissions into air

    sox
                                    -                       -                 -                  596kg               74kg           1,953kg            2,623kg
    (sulfur oxide)

    nox
                                    -                       -                      40kg          491kg             1,275kg           -                 1,806kg
    (nitrogen oxide)

    dust                            -                       -                 4,946kg            934kg              883kg            -                 6,763kg



  sumirin agro-products co., ltd.

             item                       sakura plant                  shinshiro plant                 tobishima plant                         total

energy input                                         1,363gj                          3,969gj                           3,425gj                        8,758gj

raw material input                                        60t                              21t                               69t                            149t

water resource consumption

    clean water                              -                                        1,456m 3                         1,814m 3                        3,270m 3

                                                                rivers-ure river
                                                                basin(protected area：partly
                                                                                                 rivers-kiso river basin
    main water source                        -                  in tenryu-okumikawa quasi-                                                      -
                                                                                                 (protected area: n/a)
                                                                national park and hourai
                                                                wildlife preserve)

    groundwater                                        302m 3                 -                                -                                -

greenhouse gas
emissions

    overall emissions                                73t-co2                         248t-co2                         186t-co2                        506t-co2

    emissions per base unit                      10.4kg-co2/t                     59.3kg-co2/t                     15.7kg-co2/t                 -

volume of waste                                           15t                              12t                               24t                             51t

total water discharge

    ocean area                               -                                -                                        1,694m 3                        1,694m 3

    rivers                                   -                                        1,156m 3                 -                                       1,156m 3

    lakes                                    -                                -                                -                                -

    others                                             302m 3                 -                                -                                        302m 3




                                                                            240                                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                     environmental report > environmental data




 group companies outside japan


data for plants outside of japan shows the environmental impact per company

  group companies outside japan

                                                        alpine                                         pt. kutai            nelson pine
                             pt. rimba partikel                            pt. ast indonesia
              item                                   mdfindustries                                  timberindonesia        industries ltd.
                              indonesia（ rpi）                                   （ asti）
                                                     （ alpine mdf）                                      （ kti）                （ npil）

energy input                             116,826gj             466,090gj               71,185gj                693,921gj         1,057,758gj

raw material input                        147,028t              245,934t                  29,529t               404,059t              672,252t

water resource consumption

       clean water                   -                         95,843m 3           -                       -                      322,593m 3

       industrial water              -                     -                           29,529m 3           180,580m 3             -

       groundwater                    324,065m 3           -                       -                       117,763m 3             -

greenhouse gas
emissions

       overall emissions             7,991t-co2           36,592t-co2              5,115t-co2             46,862t-co2            12,559t-co2

       emissions per sales
                               295.9kg-co2/us$        597.3kg-co2/au$        140.1kg-co2/us$         389.7kg-co2/us$         76.1kg-co2/nz$
       unit

       emissions per base
                                  63.9kgco2/m 3        281.6kgco2/m 3        140.1kg-co2/us$           155.4kgco2/m 3         36.6kgco2/m 3
       unit

volume of waste                            24,692t               59,884t                   2,625t                29,521t                5,332t

total water discharge

       sewage                        -                         87,109m 3           -                       -                      260,599m 3

       ocean area                    -                     -                       -                       103,828m 3             -

       rivers                         316,494m 3           -                           29,529m 3           -                      -




                                                                    241                                 sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                     third party evaluation




                                    career synopsis

                                 mr. adachi assumed his current post following positions in the business
                                 strategy research center and technology research center of the japan
                                 research institute. he provides corporate information to financial institutions
                                 for the purposes of socially responsible investment and environmentally sound
                                 investment. mr. adachi has responsibility for industrial research and corporate
                                 evaluation from the perspective of corporate social responsibility, focused on
                                 measures to tackle environmental issues. from march 2005 until may 2009,
     mr. eiichiro adachi         he served as the japanese expert on the iso26000 working group. he is the
  research chief / head of
                                 co-author of several books including "an illustrated guide to environmental
 esg research center, the
                                 issues for companies" (toyo keizai inc.), "introductory guide to socially
  japan research institute,
                                 responsible investment" (nikkei inc.), "business growth through global
           limited
                                 warming" (toyo keizai inc.), and "introductory guide to environmental
                                 management" (nikkei inc.).



having read that as of july 2011, sumitomo forestry had constructed 386 emergency housings in miyagi
prefecture and 118 emergency housings in fukushima prefecture following the great east japan earthquake,
i would first like to pay tribute to the persons involved. this year, the title of this report has changed to “csr
report”. i sensed that careful consideration had been given to the reader with regard to information disclosure,
such as the division of the report into “policy and plans”, “results” and “future plans” in order to convey
continuous improvement, and the inclusion of an iso26000 compliant contents index.

my attention is also drawn to specific initiatives such as the formulation of four material issues in fiscal 2007
and engagement in a continuous dialogue with its stakeholders, and the operation of a hospital, kindergarten
and supermarket by a group company in papua new guinea in consideration of the limited role of the
government, as well as the construction of two reinforced concrete subsidence bridges in accordance with the
wishes of the local people. in march 2012, the company also published a “biodiversity declaration” comprising
long-term goals to address the “aichi target” of the convention on biological diversity, which was a pioneering
initiative among japanese companies.

thinking about the sumitomo forestry group’s social responsibility through reading this report, i was
reaffirmed that “sustainable forestry” is key. with the advance of industrialization and population growth around
the world, large-scale deforestation, the expansion of agricultural land, infrastructure development, hunting and
fishing are causing the loss of precious natural environments and wildlife. if we are unable to establish a way
of retaining our natural resources while enjoying the benefits of prosperity, society will become unsustainable
and the future will be bleak.

arguably, “sustainable forestry” involving the planting of trees, the cultivation of forests and their use as natural
resources, and replanting to replace what has been used, should be a model for all companies and economic
activity. however, at present it cannot be said that a cycle of “sustainable forestry” has been fully established,
even when considering sumitomo forestry and its group companies. the company has set out a goal of
“providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests”, and although the ratio of timber from
certified forests and plantation forests reached 70% a year in advance of the fiscal 2012 target, there is still
some way to go.


                                                        242                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                     third party evaluation



turning to the situation in japan, sumitomo forestry owns some of the nation’s most outstanding forests, and
while its efforts to steadily increase the area of these forests should be applauded, unfortunately the
management of domestic forests has yet to be fully established as a business.

i visited a company-owned forest in ehime prefecture, and i felt acutely that the value of forests or timber
materials is extremely under-appreciated. if i were to express my hopes in the sumitomo forestry group in a
few words, it would be that sumitomo forestry becomes a corporate group that achieves “sustainable
forestry” both in name and substance.

of course, various competitive conditions make it difficult to achieve this. sometimes, the company could be
forced to make difficult decisions such as passing on high costs to its customers and suppliers. however, we
now truly need companies that can firmly establish a business model such as “sustainable forestry”, drawing
also on the collective efforts of society.

coincidentally, the united nations conference on sustainable development (rio+20), held in june 2012,
adopted a “natural capital declaration” stating that the stock of natural capital that provides food, fiber, water,
health, energy, climate security and other ecological services should be adequately valued in the same way as
social and financial capital.

in the public opinion poll on forests and lifestyle conducted by the cabinet office in december 2011, 81% of
respondents said they would choose a wooden house if building a house, and “use of domestic timber”
increased 5 percentage points from the previous survey to 40% as something that was valued other than price
in the selection of a wooden house.

this report also discusses initiatives such as promoting the greater use of timber (mocca), the proactive use
of domestic timber, contributions to public policy, and streamlining through joint operations. in future, i hope that
the company will clearly report progress on these issues and make even greater efforts to educate consumers
so as to enhance the value of forests and foster an organized base of supporters.

the top message mentions the company’s aim to be the “world’s leading forestry company”. i hope that this
aim includes the sense of being one of the world’s very few companies to demonstrate true sustainability in its
business, rather than simply the scale of revenues and profits. i hope that sumitomo forestry continues with
its efforts to realize “sustainable forestry” and heads the list of japanese companies that have won the
respect of the world.




                           visit to company-owned forest and plant in ehime prefecture


                                                        243                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                               third party evaluation




reply to third party evaluation

we asked mr. eiichiro adachi to share his opinion as this year’s third-party evaluator. we
invited him to visit locations including a site of the company’s forestry operations, a production
line at a building materials manufacturing plant, and a wood biomass power generation plant.
as a natural resource, the value of wood is wide ranging. by planting trees, cutting and utilizing
them when the time for harvesting arrives, and then planting trees again, renewable wood
becomes a sustainable resource.
we note mr. adachi’s comment that society now needs a business format that sustains this
cycle, as well as educational activities to enhance the value of wood, which we take to heart
both as an expectation of sumitomo forestry and our own responsibility. going forward, we will
continue to engage closely with our stakeholders while striving to promote sustainable business
activities utilizing wood.

                                                                                         koji tanaka
                                        general manager, corporate communications department




                                                  244                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                           contents index > gri g3.1 content index




activities below are in line with the 3.1 edition of the gri guidelines on sustainability reporting including
environmental, social and economic reports.

      g3.1
                                            description                                               location
disclosure

1. strategy and analysis

              statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization
1.1           (e.g., ceo, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance      our commitment (p.5)
              of sustainability to the organization and its strategy.

                                                                                         sumitomo forestry's business
                                                                                         and csr (p.12)
                                                                                         annual report (pdf：9,702kb)
                                                                                         (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library
1.2           description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.
                                                                                         /pdf/annual/ar2012eng.pdf)
                                                                                         policy & business impact(impact
                                                                                         of climate change on the
                                                                                         business) (p.159)

2 organizational profile

                                                                                         corporate profile
2.1           name of the organization.                                                  (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate
                                                                                         /profile/)

                                                                                         corporate profile
                                                                                         (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate
2.2           primary brands, products, and/or services.                                 /profile/)
                                                                                         our business
                                                                                         (http://sfc.jp/english/business/)

                                                                                         sumitomo forestry's business
              operational structure of the organization, including main divisions,       and csr (p.12)
2.3
              operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.                     our business
                                                                                         (http://sfc.jp/english/business/)

                                                                                         corporate profile
2.4           location of organization's headquarters.                                   (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate
                                                                                         /profile/)

              number of countries where the organization operates, and names of          sumitomo forestry group
2.5           countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant   (http://sfc.jp/english/business
              to the sustainability issues covered in the report.                        /group.html)

                                                                                         corporate profile
2.6           nature of ownership and legal form.                                        (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate
                                                                                         /profile/)




                                                               245                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                         contents index > gri g3.1 content index



      g3.1
                                             description                                            location
disclosure

                                                                                       corporate profile
                                                                                       (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate
             markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,           /profile/)
2.7
             and types of customers/beneficiaries).                                    sumitomo forestry group
                                                                                       (http://sfc.jp/english/business
                                                                                       /group.html)

             scale of the reporting organization, including:
             ・ number of employees;                                                    corporate profile
             ・ number of operations;                                                   (http://sfc.jp/english/corporate
             ・ net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for       /profile/)
2.8
             public sector organizations);                                             performance highlights
             ・ total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for       (http://sfc.jp/english/ir/highlights
             private sector organizations); and                                        /performance.html)
             ・ quantity of products or services provided.

             significant changes during the reporting period regarding size,
             structure, or ownership including:
                                                                                       editorial policy for csr report
             ・ the location of, or changes in operations, including facility
                                                                                       2012 (reliability of report
2.9          openings, closings, and expansions; and
                                                                                       content) (p.3)
             ・ changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation,
             maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector
             organizations).

                                                                                       evaluation by non-group third
2.10         awards received in the reporting period.
                                                                                       parties (p.40)

3. report parameters

report profile

                                                                                       editorial policy for csr report
3.1          reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided.
                                                                                       2012 (reporting period) (p.4)

                                                                                       editorial policy for csr report
3.2          date of most recent previous report (if any).
                                                                                       2012 (publication date) (p.4)

                                                                                       editorial policy for csr report
3.3          reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)
                                                                                       2012(publication date) (p.4)

                                                                                       editorial policy for csr report
3.4          contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.
                                                                                       2012(publication team) (p.4)

report scope and boundary

             process for defining report content, including:                           csr management based on four
             ・ determining materiality;                                                material issues (the process for
3.5
             ・ prioritizing topics within the report; and                              determining the material issues)
             ・ identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report.    (p.15)

                                                                                       editorial policy for csr report
             boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries,
3.6                                                                                    2012 (companies covered in the
             leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).
                                                                                       report) (p.4)

3.7          state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report.    life cycle assessments (p.153)

                                                               246                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                           contents index > gri g3.1 content index



      g3.1
                                           description                                               location
disclosure

             basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities,
3.8          outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect   not applicable
             comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.

             data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations,
                                                                                         environmental accounting (p.237)
             including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations
3.9                                                                                      environmental impact of business
             applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in
                                                                                         activities (p.151)
             the report.

             explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information
             provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement          reducing co2 emissions in
3.10
             (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of       business activities (p.161)
             business, measurement methods).

                                                                                         editorial policy for csr report
             significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope,
3.11                                                                                     2012 (main changes during the
             boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.
                                                                                         reporting period) (p.4)

gri content index

             table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the
3.12                                                                                     gri g3.1 content index (p.245)
             report.

assurance

             policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance
             for the report. if not included in the assurance report accompanying        editorial policy for csr report
3.13         the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external      2012 (reliability of report
             assurance provided. also explain the relationship between the               content) (p.3)
             reporting organization and the assurance provider(s).

4. governance, commitments, and engagement

governance

                                                                                         corporate governance (p.43)
             governance structure of the organization, including committees
                                                                                         annual report (pdf：9,702kb)
4.1          under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks,
                                                                                         (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library
             such as setting strategy or organizational oversight.
                                                                                         /pdf/annual/ar2012eng.pdf)

             indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an        annual report (pdf：9,702kb)
4.2          executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's     (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library
             management and the reasons for this arrangement).                           /pdf/annual/ar2012eng.pdf)

             for organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the            annual report (pdf：9,702kb)
4.3          number and gender of members of the highest governance body                 (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library
             that are independent and/or non-executive members.                          /pdf/annual/ar2012eng.pdf)




                                                              247                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                          contents index > gri g3.1 content index



      g3.1
                                          description                                               location
disclosure

             mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide
4.4                                                                                     corporate governance (p.43)
             recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.

             linkage between compensation for members of the highest
             governance body, senior managers, and executives (including
4.5                                                                                     corporate governance (p.43)
             departure arrangements), and the organization's performance
             (including social and environmental performance).

             processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure
4.6                                                                                                       -
             conflicts of interest are avoided.

             process for determining the composition, qualifications, and
             expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its
4.7                                                                                                       -
             committees, including any consideration of gender and other
             indicators of diversity.

             internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of
4.8          conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and           corporate philosophy (p.10)
             social performance and the status of their implementation.

             procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the
             organization's identification and management of economic,                  corporate governance (p.43)
4.9          environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and        environmental management
             opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally            (p.140)
             agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.

             processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own
4.10         performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental,         corporate governance (p.43)
             and social performance.

commitments to external initiatives

                                                                                        risk management (p.49)
                                                                                        environmental management
             explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or               (p.140)
4.11
             principle is addressed by the organization.                                policy & business impact(impact
                                                                                        of climate change on the
                                                                                        business) (p.159)

             externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters,
                                                                                        participation in the un global
4.12         principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or
                                                                                        compact (p.17)
             endorses.

             memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or
             national/international advocacy organizations in which the
             organization:                                                              social contribution
4.13         ・ has positions in governance bodies;                                      activities(contributions to public
             ・ participates in projects or committees;                                  policy) (p.129)
             ・ provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or
             ・ views membership as strategic.




                                                             248                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                     contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                          description                                          location
disclosure

stakeholder engagement

4.14         list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.               relations with stakeholders (p.29)

                                                                                   relations with stakeholders (p.29)
                                                                                   csr management based on four
             basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to
4.15                                                                               material issues (the process for
             engage.
                                                                                   determining the material issues)
                                                                                   (p.15)

             approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of
4.16                                                                                                 -
             engagement by type and by stakeholder group.

                                                                                   providing timber products and
                                                                                   materials from sustainable
                                                                                   forests (p.19)
                                                                                   providing environmentally friendly
             key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder
                                                                                   homes (p.22)
4.17         engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key
                                                                                   promoting global warming
             topics and concerns, including through its reporting.
                                                                                   countermeasures through our
                                                                                   business (p.24)
                                                                                   promoting family-centric
                                                                                   employee lifestyles (p.27)

5. management approach and performance indicators

economic

             disclosure on management approach                                     economic report (p.54)

aspect: economic performance

             direct economic value generated and distributed, including            financial performance (p.55)
             revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and       social contribution activities
ec1
             other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to       (funds allocated to social
             capital providers and governments.                                    contribution activities) (p.125)

                                                                                   policy & business impact (impact
             financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the
ec2                                                                                of climate change on the
             organization's activities due to climate change.
                                                                                   business) (p.159)

                                                                                   annual report (pdf：9,702kb)
ec3          coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations.      (http://sfc.jp/information/ir/library
                                                                                   /pdf/annual/ar2012eng.pdf)

ec4          significant financial assistance received from government.                             -

aspect: market presence

             range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to
ec5                                                                                                  -
             local minimum wage at significant locations of operation.

                                                                                   overseas plantation forest
             policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based        operations and sustainable use
ec6
             suppliers at significant locations of operation.                      (contribution of social forestry to
                                                                                   local communities) (p.203)

                                                                249                    sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                       contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                            description                                          location
disclosure

                                                                                     creating a workplace in which a
                                                                                     diverse range of employees can
                                                                                     work together (hiring locally at
                                                                                     group companies outside of
                                                                                     japan) (p.99)

                                                                                     creating a workplace in which a
                                                                                     diverse range of employees can
             procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management
ec7                                                                                  work together (hiring locally at
             hired from the local community at locations of significant operation.
                                                                                     group companies outside of
                                                                                     japan) (p.99)

aspect: indirect economic impacts

                                                                                     contributing to the development
             development and impact of infrastructure investments and services       of communities outside of japan
ec8          provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or   (p.122)
             pro bono engagement.                                                    proactive use of domestic
                                                                                     timber (p.198)

                                                                                     policy & business impact (impact
             understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts,
ec9                                                                                  of climate change on the
             including the extent of impacts.
                                                                                     business) (p.159)

environmental

             disclosure on management approach                                       environmental report (p.131)

aspect: materials

                                                                                     balance of input and output
en1          materials used by weight or volume.
                                                                                     (p.151)

en2          percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.                          -

aspect: energy

                                                                                     balance of input and output
en3          direct energy consumption by primary energy source.
                                                                                     (p.151)

                                                                                     balance of input and output
en4          indirect energy consumption by primary source.
                                                                                     (p.151)

                                                                                     reducing energy consumption in
cre1         building energy intensity.                                              homes (sumitomo forestry’s
                                                                                     lccm house) (p.171)

                                                                                     reducing co2 emissions in
en5          energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.           business activities (reducing
                                                                                     co2 emissions at plants) (p.165)

                                                                                     providing environmentally friendly
             initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based
                                                                                     homes (p.22)
en6          products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a
                                                                                     reducing energy consumption in
             result of these initiatives.
                                                                                     homes (p.171)



                                                            250                         sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                      contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                          description                                           location
disclosure

                                                                                    tackling climate change
                                                                                    (sumitomo forestry group co2
                                                                                    emission volume reduction
             initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions
en7                                                                                 targets) (p.161)
             achieved.
                                                                                    reducing co2 emissions in
                                                                                    business activities(reducing co2
                                                                                    emissions from offices) (p.163)

aspect: water

                                                                                    balance of input and output
en8          total water withdrawal by source.                                      (p.151)
                                                                                    environmental data (p.239)

en9          water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.           environmental data (p.239)

                                                                                    efficient use of water resources
en10         percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.
                                                                                    (p.225)

cre2         building water intensity                                                                -

aspect: biodiversity

             location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,   sustainable forestry in japan
en11         protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside           (promoting sustainable forestry
             protected areas.                                                       in japan) (p.191)

                                                                                    policy and plans for biodiversity
                                                                                    preservation (p.208)
             description of significant impacts of activities, products, and
                                                                                    initiatives at company-owned
en12         services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high
                                                                                    forests in japan (p.212)
             biodiversity value outside protected areas.
                                                                                    preservation of overseas
                                                                                    plantation forests (p.216)

                                                                                    initiatives at company-owned
                                                                                    forests in japan (p.212)
                                                                                    preservation of overseas
                                                                                    plantation forests (p.216)
                                                                                    social contribution activities (mt.
                                                                                    fuji manabi no mori project)
en13         habitats protected or restored.
                                                                                    (p.127)
                                                                                    overseas plantation forest
                                                                                    operations and sustainable use
                                                                                    (implementing large-scale
                                                                                    commercial forest plantation
                                                                                    business) (p.207)




                                                             251                       sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                         contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                          description                                              location
disclosure

                                                                                       policy and plans for biodiversity
             strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on     preservation (p.208)
en14
             biodiversity.                                                             initiatives at company-owned
                                                                                       forests in japan (p.212)

                                                                                       policy and plans for biodiversity
                                                                                       preservation (p.208)
             number of iucn red list species and national conservation list
                                                                                       initiatives at company-owned
en15         species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of
                                                                                       forests in japan (p.212)
             extinction risk.
                                                                                       preservation of overseas
                                                                                       plantation forests (p.216)

aspect: emissions, effluents, and waste

                                                                                       sumitomo forestry group:
en16         total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.             fy2011 co2 emission results
                                                                                       (p.160)

                                                                                       sumitomo forestry group:
en17         other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.               fy2011 co2 emission results
                                                                                       (p.160)

                                                                                       reducing energy consumption in
cre3         greenhouse gas intensity from buildings.
                                                                                       homes (p.171)

             greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and              reducing energy consumption in
cre4
             redevelopment activity.                                                   homes (p.171)

                                                                                       tackling climate change (p.158)
             initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions             promoting global warming
en18
             achieved.                                                                 countermeasures through our
                                                                                       business (p.24)

en19         emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.                      not applicable

                                                                                       management of hazardous
                                                                                       materials (management of
                                                                                       chemical substances at
en20         nox, sox, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.
                                                                                       research institute and plants)
                                                                                       (p.221)
                                                                                       environmental data (p.239)

                                                                                       balance of input and output
                                                                                       (p.151)
                                                                                       management of hazardous
                                                                                       materials (management of
en21         total water discharge by quality and destination.
                                                                                       chemical substances at
                                                                                       research institute and plants)
                                                                                       (p.221)
                                                                                       environmental data (p.239)

                                                                                       environmental impact of business
en22         total weight of waste by type and disposal method.                        activities (p.151)
                                                                                       zero emissions initiatives (p.181)

                                                            252                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                            contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                          description                                                 location
disclosure

en23         total number and volume of significant spills.                             not applicable

             weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed
             hazardous under the terms of the basel convention annex i, ii, iii,
en24                                                                                    not applicable
             and viii, and percentage of transported waste shipped
             internationally.

             identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies
en25         and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting                 environmental data (p.239)
             organization's discharges of water and runoff.

aspect: land degradation, contamination and remediation

             land and other assets remediated and in need of remediaton for the
cre5         existing or intended land use according to applicable legal                not applicable
             designations.

aspect: products and services

                                                                                          providing timber products and
                                                                                          materials from sustainable
                                                                                          forests (p.19)
             initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and                providing environmentally friendly
en26
             services, and extent of impact mitigation.                                   homes (p.22)
                                                                                          promoting global warming
                                                                                          countermeasures through our
                                                                                          business (p.24)

             percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are
en27                                                                                                       -
             reclaimed by category.

aspect: compliance

             monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary         environmental risk management
en28         sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and                      (efforts to reduce environmental
             regulations.                                                                 risks) (p.145)

aspect: transport

                                                                                          reducing co2 emissions in
                                                                                          business activities (reducing
                                                                                          co2 emissions from
             significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other
                                                                                          transportation) (p.167)
en29         goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and
                                                                                          reducing co2 emissions in
             transporting members of the workforce.
                                                                                          business activities (reducing
                                                                                          co2 emissions from offices)
                                                                                          (p.163)




                                                              253                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                      contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                          description                                           location
disclosure

aspect: overall

             total environmental protection expenditures and investments by
en30                                                                                environmental accounting (p.237)
             type.

labor practices and decent work

                                                                                    together with our employees
             disclosure on management approach
                                                                                    (p.93)

aspect: employment

                                                                                    creating a workplace in which a
             total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and
la1                                                                                 diverse range of employees can
             region, broken down by gender.
                                                                                    work together (p.93)

                                                                                    creating a workplace in which a
             total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover
la2                                                                                 diverse range of employees can
             by age group, gender, and region.
                                                                                    work together (p.93)

             benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to      creating a workplace in which a
la3          temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of          diverse range of employees can
             operations.                                                            work together (p.93)

                                                                                    creating a workplace in which a
                                                                                    diverse range of employees can
la15         return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender.    work together (helping
                                                                                    employees achieve a better
                                                                                    work-life balance) (p.95)

aspect: labor/management relations

             percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining               communication with our
la4
             agreements.                                                            employees (p.107)

             minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including
la5                                                                                                  -
             whether it is specified in collective agreements.

aspect: occupational health and safety

             percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint
la6          management—worker health and safety committees that help                                -
             monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.

                                                                                    our business partners’
             rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism,
la7                                                                                 workplace health and safety
             and number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender.
                                                                                    management (p.85)

                                                                                    a safe and healthy working
                                                                                    environment (p.101)
             percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with
cre6                                                                                our business partners’
             an internationally recognized health and safety management system.
                                                                                    workplace health and safety
                                                                                    management (p.85)




                                                            254                        sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                        contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                          description                                             location
disclosure

                                                                                      our business partners’
             education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs   workplace health and safety
la8          in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community       management (p.85)
             members regarding serious diseases.                                      a safe and healthy working
                                                                                      environment (p.101)

             health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade         communication with our
la9
             unions.                                                                  employees (p.107)

aspect: training and education

                                                                                      human resource development
             average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by        (p.110)
la10
             employee category.                                                       promoting environmental
                                                                                      education and training (p.144)

             programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support
                                                                                      human resource development
la11         the continued employability of employees and assist them in
                                                                                      (p.110)
             managing career endings.

             percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career         human resource development
la12
             development reviews, by gender.                                          (p.110)

aspect: diversity and equal opportunity

             composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees              creating a workplace in which a
la13         per employee category according to gender, age group, minority           diverse range of employees can
             group membership, and other indicators of diversity.                     work together (p.93)

aspect: equal remuneration for women and men

             ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by
la14                                                                                                   -
             employee category, by significant locations of operation.

human rights

                                                                                      corporate philosophy (code of
                                                                                      conducts) (p.11)
                                                                                      a safe and healthy working
             disclosure on management approach                                        environment (p.101)
                                                                                      human rights training for
                                                                                      employees (p.105)
                                                                                      respect for human rights (p.120)

aspect: investment and procurement practices

             percentage and total number of significant investment agreements
hr1          and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights                             -
             concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening.

             percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have
hr2                                                                                                    -
             undergone screening on human rights and actions taken.




                                                           255                           sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                          contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                            description                                             location
disclosure

                                                                                        a safe and healthy working
             total hours of employee training on policies and procedures                environment (p.101)
hr3          concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations,        human rights training for
             including the percentage of employees trained.                             employees (p.105)
                                                                                        respect for human rights (p.120)

aspect: non-discrimination

             total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions
hr4                                                                                                      -
             taken.

aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining

             operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to
             exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be
hr5                                                                                                      -
             violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these
             rights.

aspect: child labor

             operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant      respect for human rights
hr6          risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to     (prevention of child labor and
             the effective abolition of child labor.                                    forced labor) (p.121)

aspect: forced and compulsory labor

             operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant
                                                                                        respect for human rights
             risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to
hr7                                                                                     (prevention of child labor and
             contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory
                                                                                        forced labor) (p.121)
             labor.

aspect: security practices

             percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's
hr8          policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are                          -
             relevant to operations.

aspect: indigenous rights

             total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous
hr9                                                                                   not applicable
             people and actions taken.

aspect: assessment

             percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to
hr10                                                                                                     -
             human rights reviews and/or impact assessments.

aspect: remediation

             number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and
hr11                                                                                  not applicable
             resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.




                                                             256                            sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                            contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                           description                                                location
disclosure

society

                                                                                          corporate philosophy (our values
                                                                                          and ideals) (p.11)
             disclosure on management approach
                                                                                          compliance (p.46)
                                                                                          together with society (p.116)

aspect: local communities

                                                                                          contributing to the development
                                                                                          of communities outside of japan
             percentage of operations with implemented local community                    (p.122)
so1
             engagement, impact assessments, and development programs.                    overseas plantation forest
                                                                                          operations and sustainable use
                                                                                          (p.202)

                                                                                          overseas plantation forest
             operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on
so9                                                                                       operations and sustainable use
             local communities.
                                                                                          (p.202)

                                                                                          overseas plantation forest
             prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with
so10                                                                                      operations and sustainable use
             significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities.
                                                                                          (p.202)

             number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or
cre7                                                                                    not applicable
             resettled by development, broken down by project.

aspect: corruption

             percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks
so2                                                                                       risk management (p.49)
             related to corruption.

             percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption
so3                                                                                       compliance (p.46)
             policies and procedures.

so4          actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.                        compliance (p.46)

aspect: public policy

                                                                                          social contribution activities
             public policy positions and participation in public policy development
so5                                                                                       (contributions to public policy)
             and lobbying.
                                                                                          (p.129)

             total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties,
so6                                                                                                        -
             politicians, and related institutions by country.




                                                                 257                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                           contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                          description                                                location
disclosure

aspect: anti-competitive behavior

             total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust,
so7                                                                                    not applicable
             and monopoly practices and their outcomes.

aspect: compliance

             monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary
so8                                                                                    not applicable
             sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.

product responsibility

                                                                                         together with our customers
                                                                                         (p.60)
             disclosure on management approach
                                                                                         together with our business
                                                                                         partners (p.80)

aspect: customer health and safety

             life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and        building long-lasting homes
             services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of                    (p.60)
pr1
             significant products and services categories subject to such                quality control for timber and
             procedures.                                                                 building materials (p.80)

             total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
pr2          voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products          not applicable
             and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.

aspect: product and service labeling

                                                                                         providing timber products and
                                                                                         materials from sustainable
                                                                                         forests (p.19)
                                                                                         building long-lasting homes
             type of product and service information required by procedures, and         (adherence to housing
pr3          percentage of significant products and services subject to such             performance indication system)
             information requirements.                                                   (p.61)
                                                                                         building long-lasting homes
                                                                                         (timber used for housing) (p.64)
                                                                                         quality control for timber and
                                                                                         building materials (p.80)

                                                                                         overseas plantation forest
                                                                                         operations and sustainable use
             type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling        (increased handling of timber
cre8         schemes for new construction, management, occupation and                    from certified forests and
             redevelopment.                                                              plantation forests) (p.204)
                                                                                         evaluation by non-group third
                                                                                         parties (p.40)

             total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
pr4          voluntary codes concerning product and service information and            not applicable
             labeling, by type of outcomes.




                                                             258                             sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                       contents index > gri g3.1 content index



   g3.1
                                          description                                            location
disclosure

             practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of        communication with customers
pr5
             surveys measuring customer satisfaction.                                (p.69)

aspect: marketing communications

             programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes
                                                                                     communication with customers
pr6          related to marketing communications, including advertising,
                                                                                     (standards for advertising) (p.73)
             promotion, and sponsorship.

             total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
                                                                                     communication with customers
pr7          voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including
                                                                                     (standards for advertising) (p.73)
             advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.

aspect: customer privacy

             total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of          risk management (information
pr8
             customer privacy and losses of customer data.                           security) (p.53)

aspect: compliance

             monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and
pr9          regulations concerning the provision and use of products and          not applicable
             services.




                                                            259                          sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                    contents index > iso26000 contents index




for readers of this csr report wishing to know how it relates to iso26000, an international standard for social
responsibility, the index below lists activities corresponding to the topics covered in iso26000.

           core subjects and issues of social responsibility                                        section

6.2 organizational governance

                                                                     corporate philosophy (p.10)
                                                                     our commitment (p.5)
                                                                     csr management based on four material issues (p.15)
                                                                     relations with stakeholders (p.29)
                                                                     the un global compact (p.17)
                                                                     corporate governance (p.43)
                                                                     creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees can work
                                                                     together (p.93)

6.3 human rights

                                                                     code of conduct (p.11)
                                                                     respect for human rights (p.120)
issue 1:      due diligence
                                                                     human rights training for employees (initiatives at group companies)
                                                                     (p.106)

                                                                     respect for human rights (p.120)
                                                                     risk management (responding to disasters and emergencies) (p.49)
issue 2:      human rights risk situations                           contributing to the development of communities outside of japan (p.122)
                                                                     compliance and risk management (preventing corruption) (p.47)
                                                                     procuring sustainable raw materials through the supply chain (p.82)

                                                                     respect for human rights (p.120)
                                                                     procuring sustainable raw materials through the supply chain (p.82)
issue 3:      avoidance of complicity                                our business partners' workplace health and safety management (p.85)
                                                                     compliance and risk management (rejection of influence from
                                                                     anti-social elements) (p.48)

                                                                     compliance and risk management (compliance counter) (p.47)
issue 4:      resolving grievances
                                                                     a safe and healthy working environment (p.101)

                                                                     housing distribution and renovation initiatives (providing homes to
                                                                     international students studying in japan) (p.78)
                                                                     human rights training for employees (human rights training for
issue 5:      discrimination and vulnerable groups
                                                                     employees) (p.105)
                                                                     creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees can work
                                                                     together (p.93)

                                                                     compliance and risk management (responding to compliance
issue 6:      civil and political rights
                                                                     violations) (p.47)

                                                                     contributing to the development of communities outside of japan (kti
issue 7:      economic, social and cultural rights
                                                                     educational foundation) (p.122)

                                                                     communication with our employees (relations with the labor union)
                                                                     (p.109)
                                                                     respect for human rights (prevention of child labor and forced labor)
issue 8:      fundamental principles and rights at work
                                                                     (p.121)
                                                                     creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees can work
                                                                     together (promoting affirmative action) (p.97)




                                                               260                                     sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                                    contents index > iso26000 contents index



            core subjects and issues of social responsibility                                                           section

6.4 labour practices

                                                                                      creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees can work
                                                                                      together (employee hiring, promotion, and re-employment systems)
issue 1:       employment and employment relationships                                (p.94)
                                                                                      respect for human rights (human rights programs) (p.120)
                                                                                      procuring sustainable raw materials through the supply chain (p.82)

                                                                                      promoting family-centric employee lifestyles (p.27)
                                                                                      a safe and healthy working environment (p.101)
issue 2:       conditions of work and social protection                               creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees can work
                                                                                      together (helping employees achieve a better work-life balance) (p.95)
                                                                                      risk management (traffic safety) (p.52)

issue 3:       social dialogue                                                        communication with our employees (p.107)

                                                                                      risk management (traffic safety) (p.52)
issue 4:       health and safety at work                                              our business partners' workplace health and safety management (p.85)
                                                                                      a safe and healthy working environment (p.101)

                                                                                      human resource development (p.110)
issue 5:       human development and training in the workplace
                                                                                      communication with our employees (p.107)

6.5 the environment

                                                                                      providing environmentally friendly homes (p.22)
                                                                                      environmental management (p.140)
                                                                                      environmental impact of business activities (p.151)
issue 1:       prevention of pollution                                                life cycle assessments (p.153)
                                                                                      zero emissions initiatives (p.181)
                                                                                      management of hazardous materials (p.221)
                                                                                      environmental risk management (p.145)

                                                                                      providing timber products and materials from sustainable forests (p.19)
                                                                                      procuring sustainable raw materials through the supply chain (p.82)
                                                                                      balance of input and output (p.151)
                                                                                      tackling climate change (p.158)
issue 2:       sustainable resource use                                               preserving forests (p.189)
                                                                                      resource recycling (p.186)
                                                                                      efficient use of water resources (p.225)
                                                                                      environmental data (p.239)
                                                                                      building long-lasting homes (p.60)

                                                                                      promoting global warming countermeasures through our business
                                                                                      (p.24)
                                                                                      balance of input and output (p.151)
                                                                                      tackling climate change (p.158)
                                                                                      reducing energy consumption in homes (p.171)
issue 3:       climate change mitigation and adaption
                                                                                      sustainable forestry in japan (effective use of unused biomass
                                                                                      resources) (p.197)
                                                                                      promoting green purchasing (p.150)
                                                                                      environment-related businesses (p.227)
                                                                                      environmental data (p.239)

                                                                                      preserving biodiversity (p.208)
               protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of
issue 4:                                                                              overseas plantation forest operations and sustainable use (increased
               natural, habitats
                                                                                      handling of timber from certified forests and plantation forests) (p.204)

6.6 fair operating practices

issue 1:       anti-corruption                                                        compliance (p.46)

issue 2:       responsible political involvement                                                                           -

issue 3:       fair competition                                                       compliance (fair competition) (p.48)

                                                                                      procuring sustainable raw materials through the supply chain (p.82)
issue 4:       promoting social responsibility in the value chain
                                                                                      respect for human rights (human rights in the supply chain) (p.120)

issue 5:       respect for property rights                                            compliance (respect for intellectual property rights) (p.48)


                                                                                261                                        sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"

                                                                                                               contents index > iso26000 contents index



           core subjects and issues of social responsibility                                                    section

6.7 consumer issues

              fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair
issue 1:                                                                        communication with customers (standards for advertising) (p.73)
              contractual practices

                                                                                building long-lasting homes (p.60)
issue 2:      protecting consumers' health and safety
                                                                                quality control for timber and building materials (p.80)

                                                                                building long-lasting homes (p.60)
issue 3:      sustainable consumption
                                                                                reducing energy consumption in homes (p.171)

              consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute
issue 4:                                                                        communication with customers (p.69)
              resolution

issue 5:      consumer data protection and privacy                              information security (p.53)

issue 6:      access to essential services                                                                          -

issue 7:      education and awareness                                           communication with customers (keeping customers informed) (p.72)

6.8 community involvement and development

                                                                                contributing to the development of communities outside of japan (p.122)
issue 1:      community involvement
                                                                                social contribution activities (p.124)

                                                                                contributing to the development of communities outside of japan (kti
issue 2:      education and culture
                                                                                educational foundation) (p.122)

                                                                                contributing to the development of communities outside of japan
                                                                                (contributing to communities by employment and procurement) (p.123)
issue 3:      employment creation and skills development                        overseas plantation forest operations and sustainable use (p.202)
                                                                                creating a workplace in which a diverse range of employees can work
                                                                                together (hiring locally at group companies outside japan) (p.99)

                                                                                proactive use of domestic timber (development of efficient timber
                                                                                drying technology) (p.201)
                                                                                sustainable forestry in japan (initiatives for efficient and labor-saving
                                                                                harvesting of trees) (p.193)
                                                                                sustainable forestry in japan (building a forest management model
issue 4:      technology development and access                                 utilizing airborne laser imaging detection and ranging (lidar)
                                                                                technology) (p.194)
                                                                                sustainable forestry in japan (effective use of unused biomass
                                                                                resources) (p.197)
                                                                                contributing to the development of communities outside of japan
                                                                                (contribution of social forestry to local communities) (p.203)

                                                                                contributing to the development of communities outside of japan
                                                                                (benefits of business development for local communities) (p.122)
                                                                                contributing to the development of communities outside of japan
                                                                                (contributing to communities by employment and procurement) (p.123)
issue 5:      wealth and income creation
                                                                                sustainable forestry in japan (streamlining management of
                                                                                company-owned forests through joint operations) (p.194)
                                                                                overseas plantation forest operations and sustainable use (contribution
                                                                                of social forestry to local communities) (p.203)

issue 6:      health                                                            contributing to the development of communities outside of japan (p.122)

                                                                                overseas plantation forest operations and sustainable use (contribution
issue 7:      social investment
                                                                                of social forestry to local communities) (p.203)




                                                                          262                                      sumitomo forestry "csr report 2012"
