 un global compact
communication on progress for 2016
        t-mobile czech republic

           30 september 2017

           i am pleased to confirm that t-mobile czech
           republic a. s. reaffirms its support of the ten
           principles of the united nations global compact
           in the areas of human rights, labour, environment
           and anti-corruption and seventeen sdgs.

           in this annual communication on progress, we
           describe the actions we have taken in order to
           continually improve the integration of the global
           compact and its principles and the sdgs into our
           business strategy, culture and daily operations.

           we are also committed to sharing this information
           with our stakeholders using our primary channels
           of communication.

           sincerely yours,




           milan vašina
           managing director,
           t-mobile czech republic a.s.




2   un global compact communication on progress for 2016       t-mobile czech republic

                                          contents




                    t-mobile and corporate social responsibility             4

                    human rights	                                           14

                    labour                                                  26

                    environment                                             32

                    anti-corruption	                                        41

                    measurement of outcomes	                                49




3   un global compact communication on progress for 2016           t-mobile czech republic

                               t-mobile and
                                corporate
                                  social
                              responsibility


                   t-mobile czech republic has been operating in the czech market since
                   1996, and has been a member of the international telecommunications
                   group deutsche telekom since 2002. it is the number-one operator in the
                   czech mobile market: approximately six million customers use its services
                   and it has approximately 3,400 employees.




4   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                              t-mobile czech republic

         i
                n the past years, the company has undergone significant changes. after the acquisition of and merger
                with the sister company t-systems czech republic in 2013, the “new” company was being aligned in
                terms of human resources and procedures. the following year saw yet another amalgamation project, this
                time with gts czech, which was purchased by the parent company deutsche telekom ag. the company
                thus became an integrated operator: in addition to mobile and fixed-line telecommunications services, it
           offers a broad portfolio of it services and system-integration solutions under the t-systems brand for corporate
           customers and public administration bodies.


           the integration with t-systems and gts was a demanding task involving a number of extensive transformation
           activities, which the company completed successfully and used as an opportunity. it helped the company to
           strengthen its competence and expand its portfolio of ict solutions. the next step was to develop an integrated
           organisational structure, streamline the management structure and change the logo, which is in line with the
           international strategy of deutsche telekom. since 1 january 2015, the existing t-mobile and t-systems brands
           have been replaced by a simple t. the gts brand continues to be used in the corporate segment.


           since its establishment, t-mobile has placed emphasis on taking a responsible approach to business and
           society. the company has received, among other awards, employer of the year, employer of the decade,
           company of the year: equal opportunities, company supporting health, and the via bona award for the
           involvement of employees in philanthropic and volunteer activities; it also ranked third in the company of the
           year: equal opportunities for women’s careers awards. it is also a holder of the healthy company award.
           in 2012, the magazine world finance named t-mobile czech republic the best wireless telecoms provider in
           eastern europe.




5   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                    t-mobile czech republic

           as regards corporate social responsibility, the company ranked first in the telecommunications category of the
           2016 top employer survey conducted by the czech students’ union; won first prize in the effie competition for
           its local sea hero campaign; was awarded the silver certificate in the socially responsible project category of
           the top responsible company survey for its t-mobile rozjezdy (“t-mobile takeoffs”) project; earned first place
           in the running event category of the czech top runner contest for its t-mobile olympic run event, the proceeds
           of which go towards helping children from socially disadvantaged families take part in sporting activities; and
           ranked third in the campaign category of the czech institute of internal communication competition for its
           díííky (“thanks”) campaign, which also saw employees raise funds for socially disadvantaged people and
           disabled persons.


           t-mobile was the founding member of the local un global compact network in the czech republic. it was the
           first global company in the country to adopt the un global compact’s ten principles also on the local level. the
           parent company deutsche telekom has been its member for several years, therefore t-mobile czech republic
           also fully endorses the principles adopted within this platform.


           the support of the un global compact and involvement in the establishment of the czech network is a logical
           step and is fully in line with the company’s long-term corporate social responsibility strategy. as a member of
           the local un global compact network, the company wants to contribute towards raising the quality of corporate
           social responsibility and propagating international know-how. it aligns its mission as well as everyday operations
           with ten universally accepted principles of social responsibility in the areas of human rights, labour, environment
           and anti-corruption efforts and the sdgs.




6   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

                                   social
                                responsibility
                                    is part of t-mobile’s corporate
                                 strategy and is based on six pillars.




7   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                 t-mobile czech republic

           the fundamental   pro svět (“for the world”) pillar covers in particular the area of responsible
           business – human rights, labour conditions, prevention of corruption, environmental protection and internet
           security. in the area of corruption prevention, the company cooperates with transparency international.


           t-mobile holds a number of certificates: iso 9001 – quality management system, iso 14001 – environmental
           management system, iso 20000-1 – service management system, iso 22301 – business continuity
           management system, and iso 27001 – information security management system. the company’s activities
           are subject to annual independent audits that are performed by reputable companies. by obtaining and
           maintaining these international certificates, t-mobile proves to its customers, suppliers, employees and public
           administration bodies that it applies a consistent approach in these areas, which is aimed at continuously
           improving the company’s operation.




           the   vymysleme to (“let’s think it up”) programme focuses on the use of t-mobile’s know-
           how in information technologies for the benefit of corporate social responsibility. the company has participated
           in the introduction and development of donor sms (dms) in the czech republic and is a regular sponsor
           of a special category – application for a better world – within the mobile application of the year awards.




8   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                    t-mobile czech republic

           generally, t-mobile has long supported the development of new applications and solutions that are socially
           useful; for example, they help people who are disadvantaged in a certain respect, cultivate our environment
           or change the world for the better in any other manner. the company also developed the snadněji pro seniory
           (“making it easier for senior citizens”) application and a donor application for the dobrý anděl (“good angel”)
           endowment fund, with which it has long been cooperating.


           as a subsidiary of deutsche telekom, t-mobile launched the sea hero mobile game, which collects information
           from players to contribute to dementia research, into the czech market last year. the company also introduced
           its školák (“schoolchild”) internet security bundle, which helps parents keep an eye on their children.


           in 2015, t-mobile introduced the e-přepis (“e-transcription”) application at all t-mobile and partner shops.
           thanks to online speech transcription, which is performed by visually impaired persons, the application
           facilitates communication for hearing-impaired customers. t-mobile also participated in the development of
           a navigation cane for visually impaired people, which uses gps and a camera and enables communication with
           a special centre.




9   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                    t-mobile czech republic

            grant programmes for non-profit organisations are part of the   mluvme spolu (“let’s talk to
            each other”) pillar. in 2016, t-mobile distributed nearly czk 3,000,000 to support 34 non-profit organisations.
            the common themes of the supported projects are the inclusion of various social groups and communities in the
            society, their mutual communication, cooperation and integration. in the area of grant programmes, t-mobile has
            been cooperating with the via foundation for many years.


            t-mobile organises the t-mobile rozjezdy (“t-mobile takeoffs”) project, a unique country-wide programme to
            support start-up businesses, which successfully completed six editions in 2016. a part of the   rozjeďme
            to (“let’s start it up”) pillar, the t-mobile takeoffs project aims to support small start-up businesses. this
            group of the population is at risk of unemployment and includes mainly parents with young children, recent
            graduates, the long-term unemployed, the disabled and senior citizens. the support consists in free workshops
            and seminars to help start a business, and the possibility of winning financial support and a package of services,
            which are awarded to the originators of the best business ideas. approximately 409 start-up projects registered
            in the sixth edition of t-mobile takeoffs, with prizes being distributed among 41 participants. the workshops
            and seminars were attended by more than 500 small business owners.




10   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                      t-mobile czech republic

            the   pomáhejme si (“let’s help each other”) pillar is intended for the company’s employees
            and supports their volunteering and charitable activities and responsibility. the traditional activities include the
            den pro dobrý skutek (“one day for people in need”) programme, when employees can spend one working
            day in a year volunteering in non-profit organisations, the selection of the volunteer of the year and pomáhejme
            příběhům (“supporting stories”), an internal fundraising campaign. the fourth edition of this campaign was
            organised in 2016 to raise funds for people in the vicinity of our employees who are in difficult life situations.
            t-mobile matched the amount donated by the employees for each project. a total of czk 1,431,900 was thus
            raised to support those in need.


            employee volunteer activities are organized in cooperation with hestia, a volunteer centre. t-mobile also
            cooperates with via foundation in its employee fundraising campaign and with the czech olympic foundation
            in its olympic run event.




11   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                        t-mobile czech republic

                                                                                        the common themes of the
                                     the let‘s talk to each                             projects supported by the
                                     other grant programme                              let‘s talk to each other grant
                                     distributed nearly                                 programme are the inclusion
                                     czk 3,000,000 to         in 2016, t-mobile         of various social groups and
                                     support 34 non-profit    launched seminars         communities in the society,
                                     organisations.           targeted at senior        their mutual communication,
                                                              citizens on information   cooperation and integration.
                                                              and communication
                                                              technologies.




                                the nationwide prize of
                                the takeoffs programme
                                was awarded to václav
                                staněk for vasky
                                (traditional but innovative
                                shoe production).




approximately 409
start-up projects registered
in the sixth edition of                                        money is not the only
takeoffs, with prizes being                                    support provided by
distributed among 41                                           t-mobile to non-profit
participants. the workshops                                    organisations; they
and seminars were attended                                     can also receive free
by more than 500 small                                         training, workshops
business owners.                                               or conferences.

           approximately 409
           start-up projects registered in                                                 alice selby, the
           the sixth edition of takeoffs,                                                  volunteer of the year
           with prizes being distributed                                                   2016, awarded for
           among 41 participants.                                                          canistherapy for senior
           the workshops and seminars                                                      citizens in homes for
           were attended by more than                                                      the elderly.
           500 small business owners.

            the fourth edition of the long-term educational programme entitled the t-mobile academy for non-profit
            organisations was organised last year under the        rozvíjejme se (“let’s develop”) pillar.
            money is not the only support provided by t-mobile to non-profit organisations; they can also receive free
            training. seven non-profit organisations took part in the programme within which they received free specialist
            consultations and coaching and their members could attend seminars free of charge for one year. training was
            provided by t-mobile employees, who were happy to share their knowledge and expertise with people from
            foundations and civic associations. in addition to the academy, the company continued to organise regular
            workshops for the non-profit sector (holding five in total), which focused on areas such as pr, finance and
            human resources. t-mobile also held two csr conferences, which focused on “the involvement of individuals
            in volunteer and philanthropic activities” and “the social responsibility of entrepreneurs and small, medium-
            sized and large companies”. the company also launched seminars targeted at senior citizens on information
            and communication technologies. an important partner of t-mobile’s let’s develop pillar is the tedx initiative,
            where we are the traditional partner of tedx prague.


            detailed information on t-mobile’s responsible approach to business and corporate social responsibility
            activities can be found at   www.t-mobile.cz/pomahame.




13   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                   t-mobile czech republic

                                                 human
                                                 rights




                       principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of
                       internationally proclaimed human rights; and

                       principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights
                       abuses.




14   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                             t-mobile czech republic

                   within its focus on equal treatment and prevention of
                  discrimination, t-mobile has been acting in line with the
                 “respect and integrity guide our behaviour” principle.
                this requires in practice that all employees act with respect,
                    recognition and understanding in relation to others.




15   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                 t-mobile czech republic

            the company strives to create an environment of mutual tolerance and trust by respecting the individuality of
            others. it acts openly and honestly and supports and cultivates individual and cultural diversity – with respect
            to age, sex, religion, aptitude, ancestry or sexual orientation. the different cultures, languages and marital
            statuses of employees enhance this diversity. t-mobile respects its customers, partners, suppliers, shareholders
            as well as society and does not tolerate any form of unlawful discrimination or harassment, whether within the
            company or in its business relations. the company always reviews its actions and behaviour and addresses any
            behaviour that is unethical, unlawful or at variance with internal regulations and policies, and draws the relevant
            consequences.


            the “best place to perform and grow” is another principle applied by the company. to fulfil it, the company
            supports equal opportunities and the diversity of human resources, while respecting cultural and legal
            differences. this approach is in line with the group’s policy and is also incorporated in the code of conduct
            and the group policy on employee relations. the company strives to raise employees’ awareness of unequal
            treatment and discrimination and, through a pro-active approach, support the determination of victims to report
            any unlawful conduct, without having to fear for their job position.




16   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

            any form of discrimination is prohibited in employment relationships; in particular discrimination in connection
            with the right to employment, access to employment, employee working conditions, remuneration for work,
            provision of other financial contributions and cash value benefits, employee learning and training and career
            advancement opportunities. in view of this, all employees are obliged to act in such a way as to avoid any unequal
            treatment and discrimination. discrimination, however, does not include actions where there is a relevant reason
            consisting in the nature of the work performed and where the respective requirements are adequate given the
            nature of the work or where such actions are permitted by and/or set out in the legislation (e.g., the minimum
            experience required for certain work, specialist qualification requirements or procedures aimed at protecting
            women on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity, persons with disabilities or those under the age of 18 years).
            if an employee engages in unequal treatment or discrimination, such actions can be regarded as a violation of
            the employee’s duties arising from the laws and regulations relating to the work performed by the employee.


            the employees in the hr business partnering department provide consultations to respond to questions that
            relate to potential violations of the equal treatment and non-discrimination rules. they also adopt any general
            measures which they at their discretion consider to be necessary and appropriate to ensure compliance with
            the equal treatment and non-discrimination rules. they are also obliged to ensure that any information received
            within an investigation based on a report of discriminatory actions is stored, kept and archived in accordance
            with the company’s applicable internal policies.




17   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                      t-mobile czech republic

                                              each year, the company
                                              puts on a children‘s day
                                              as it opens its doors to
                                              little ones and allows
                                              them to enjoy games
                                              and amusements on the
                                              company’s premises.




                                                              dny zdraví (“health days”):
                                                              employees were offered the chance
                                                              to attend fitness sessions or get
                                                              a massage (provided by blind
                                                              masseurs) at their place of work,
                                                              have their blood pressure taken and
                                                              body fat calculated, and participate
                                                              in popular workshops that focused
                                                              on stress management and healthy
                                                              lifestyles.




18   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                            t-mobile czech republic

           information about violations of human rights or related questions can be submitted via the telekom group
           whistle-blower system in different ways: to the central compliance unit at deutsche telekom or the compliance
           unit of the relevant national company, through e-mail or via a hotline, but also anonymously if the person reporting
           a violation or submitting a question so desires.


           t-mobile has been working to ensure an appropriate and safe working environment for its employees. occupational
           hygiene checks (supervision) at the workplace are therefore performed more frequently than as imposed by the
           legislation. any discrepancies identified during checks at the workplace are removed either immediately after they
           are found or as soon as possible.


           in accordance with act no. 262/2006 coll., the labour code, the company regularly organises and coordinates
           health and safety checks at the workplace and in the facilities of the employer, including hygiene checks; such
           checks are performed at least once a year. any discrepancies are removed or plans for their minimisation are put in
           place. generally, these checks are also called health and safety audits or inspections. the checks are performed by
           persons who have the requisite qualification in health and safety and sufficient expertise to be able to determine safe
           environment in the premises where the checks are carried out.


           the basic instrument used by t-mobile to evaluate how work affects its employees’ health is the categorisation of
           risks and their analysis. it should reflect the physical condition of the work environment and its potential adverse
           effect on employees’ health.




19   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                         t-mobile czech republic

            t-mobile is a current holder of the healthy company award. in 2016, it organised several events aimed at disease
            prevention and raising health awareness. employees had the opportunity to take part in:
                ny zdraví (“health days”) – eight one-day events which were held in prague and in each of the regions
               d
               where t-mobile operates. employees were offered the chance to attend fitness sessions or get a massage
               at their place of work, have their blood pressure taken and body fat calculated, and participate in popular
               workshops that focused on stress management and healthy lifestyles. as employees working in t-mobile
               shops were unable to take part in these activities during their regular working hours, team gatherings were
               organised to enable them to participate. in addition to information being provided on disease prevention and
               promoting physical and mental health, safe driving was also among the topics under discussion. our health
               days are greatly popular with employees, who are happy to take part in them.

                s part of the health workshops organised as part of t-university (an internal development platform),
               a
               48 seminars were offered throughout the year with a focus on physical and mental health. all employees
               were offered the chance to sign up for these workshops free of charge. more than 570 colleagues took
               advantage of this opportunity.

                total of 306 employees took up the flu vaccine.
               a

                bove-standard health care was enjoyed by 1,116 colleagues and 1,490 of their family members.
               a

               j eden den pro vaše zdraví (“a day for your health”) – an event put on for 320 colleagues from small regional
               centres where no health days are organised. these employees were instead given the chance to select
               one of nine health promotion and disease prevention programmes. back pain prevention, dental hygiene,
               cardiac stress tests and encephalitis vaccination were among the most popular programmes.




20   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                     t-mobile czech republic

            the “respect and integrity guide our behaviour” principle also emphasises that t-mobile does not discriminate
            in any area. on the contrary, it supports diversity, as diversity – whether employee competences or individuality
            – increases the ability for technological innovation, and therefore success in business. human resources,
            competence development policies and procedures applied within the company can help utilise the potential
            and experience of all individuals. the attitude and ways of thinking which cross national and cultural borders
            are of key importance.


            in consideration of these aspects, t-mobile strives to create equal opportunities for all existing and prospective
            employees, regardless of their sex, origin, handicap, sexual orientation, religion, trade union membership or
            political affiliation. similarly, it endeavours to develop a platform for faster development of competences of
            previously disadvantaged persons. this is also facilitated by human resources recruitment procedures that
            create adequate supporting structures backed by good results.


            the rule of non-discrimination on the basis of sex is taken seriously. in 2010, deutsche telekom became the first
            large corporation with a global presence to introduce gender quotas ensuring that at least a certain percentage
            of its managers are women, and these quotas are respected by the company. women were to have 30%
            representation in middle and senior management by the close of 2015. although 2015 is now behind us, we at
            t-mobile continue to monitor the percentage of women in management positions and are developing activities
            to support female colleagues who have the potential and ambition to hold management positions.




21   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                      t-mobile czech republic

            in 2016, t-mobile organised the second edition of w-lab, a long-term development programme in which
            women work on a project that has been assigned by management, participate in development activities, and
            receive coaching/mentoring and internal on-the-job development. two years ago, a “female platform” was also
            established to reach a wider spectrum of the company’s female membership. as part of this platform, various
            workshops, business breakfasts with inspirational speakers and networking events with people from other
            companies are held every month. women can also get their hands on tickets to female-oriented conferences
            such as tedx woman prague and všem ženám (“for all women”). through these efforts, t-mobile has offered
            a total of 240 places in development activities.




               total number                                           management structure
               of employees:                                          top


               3,376
                                                                      management
                                                                                         14%                86%
                                                                      senior
                                                                      management
                                                                                         23.8%            76.2%
                                                                      middle
                                                                      management
                                                                                         10.2%            89.8%
                 34.9%                             65.1%              lower
                                                                      management
                employee figures by gender                                               25.2%            74.8%


                                                average age of
                                                managers by gender




                                                37                       40
22   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                t-mobile czech republic

                                                            t-day, the first internal
                                                            t-mobile student
                                                            conference on
                                                            innovations and trends
                                                            in ict.




                                   development programme
                                   for women. its goal
                                   is to prepare women
                                   with growth potential
                                   and ambitions for
                                   management positions.


23   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                               t-mobile czech republic

            in addition to gender issues, t-mobile’s diversity efforts also focus on colleagues with disabilities. the company’s
            objective in this area is to ensure that employees do not encounter any limitations caused by their state of
            health. the company therefore puts every effort possible into making sure that employees feel as comfortable
            as possible at their place of work. to colleagues with disabilities – the holders of severe disability cards and
            acute disability cards – the company also offers medical aids, a complete annual medical check-up free of
            charge at a private medical facility with whom it cooperates, and the use of one of its healthcare services and
            consultancy packages.


            last but not least, t-mobile also places a high level of importance on age diversity. when recruiting employees,
            it disregards the age of the candidate and does not discriminate. t-mobile is interested in both young people
            and experienced experts. we also appreciate the work of our colleagues aged 50 and over. the only relevant
            criteria are qualification and experience, as is the case with other candidates. upon celebrating a jubilee
            (50 and 60 years), the employees are invited to a lunch with the company’s management, and can also use
            special care and hr consultations as well as attend workshops dedicated to issues of current interest.




               average age of employees                                    employee structure by age
               by gender:
                                                                               36 – 45   46.5 %
                                                                                                         46 – 55   9.8 %
                                                                                                           above 552.7 %
                                                                                                          below 25 7.2 %




               38                               35                                          26 – 35   33.8 %




24   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                          t-mobile czech republic

            the company is a member of alliance for youth, a partnership programme that has representations in several
            countries. the czech network of this platform currently brings together around 40 companies committed
            to helping young students to prepare for their future careers and find work that will bring them relevant job
            experience. t-mobile strives to make its business beneficial to society and help young people find work, which
            will improve its chances of finding high-quality and motivated employees.


            working in cooperation with other companies, an idea to organise a “learning journey” for students came to
            life in 2016 with the piloting of the big step programme. a successful learning journey for university students
            involves students visiting four companies in two days and becoming acquainted with a given topic through a
            series of interactions. the programme is packed with interactive workshops, discussions and excursions, all
            of which are aimed at providing students with access to current topics in various industries and introducing
            them to the corporate culture at each company. from the pool of applicants, a final group of twenty students is
            selected to take their “big step” with t mobile, where they will not only gain new experience but will also make
            important contacts.


            apart from these activities, there is also t-mobile campus, which helps students better prepare for their future
            careers. we do not keep our expertise and know-how to ourselves and we thus organise development workshops
            for students, provide career guidance, organise specialised lectures at colleges and universities as well as visits
            to our offices and help with writing theses. all of the activities are communicated via the social networks, which
            are natural for the millenials.




25   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

                                                labour




                    principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and
                    the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;

                    principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;

                    principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and

                    principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment
                    and occupation.



26   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                  t-mobile czech republic

                           t-mobile exerts substantial efforts in creating
                             a suitable working environment, supporting
                            development and learning, and encouraging
                         a positive work-life balance among its employees.
                       this is achieved, for instance, by offering flexible work
                              arrangements and part-time employment.




27   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                    t-mobile czech republic

            as a modern company, t-mobile looks for ways of meeting the needs of employees and establishing mutual
            cooperation that is beneficial to both parties. part-time work is one of the options that is becoming increasingly
            popular. at the close of 2016, approximately 7% of our employees were working part-time; a figure 2% up on
            the previous year. the company’s interest and support in this initiative are growing. there is also a rising trend
            in home-office and other flexible work arrangements.


            in addition to making use of flexible work arrangements, the company also supports the family life of employees
            through its social activities. each year, the company puts on a children‘s day as it opens its doors to little ones
            and allows them to enjoy games and amusements on the company’s premises, have some light refreshments
            and, above all, enjoy a shared experience. in cooperation with an external partner, the company also organises
            day camps which employees with kids can pay for using their cafeteria benefits. in 2016, the company also held
            a summer party for employees and their families.


            t-mobile places significant importance on employee development and adheres to the 70-20-10 principle, which
            is the ratio in which each of the constituent forms of learning are most effective. this model shows how greatest
            progress in learning and personal development is made in the work environment:




28   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

            off-the-job training makes up 10% of all development activities and includes training programmes, workshops
            and e-learning programmes. these are provided free of charge as part of t-university, an internal development
            platform. its mission is to provide voluntary development opportunities for those who wish to invest time
            and energy in their personal development outside of work. training at t-university is provided by t-mobile
            employees, who share their know-how and experience with others. the response to these internal activities is
            often better than when activities are offered by external suppliers. in addition to t-university, the company also
            offers a specialised library.


            a total of 20% of development activities consist in mentoring, coaching and networking. in addition to mutual
            support being provided between colleagues or shared with superiors, employees can take advantage of a mentor
            (who can even be from another company), who will use his or her experience to guide the mentored employee
            through an area that is new to them or difficult to navigate. on the other hand, if an employee needs to get
            a handle on a new situation by him or herself, surmount personal boundaries, get their thoughts in order or decide
            what is next for them, then internal coaches are available. t-mobile also offers shadowing by colleagues from
            our or another company, who can help get to grips with a new task or find inspiration. if an entire team needs to
            make up ground, then team coaching and sociomapping are available. a 360-degree feedback process is also
            in place to provide employees with feedback from their direct surroundings and help them focus on the issues
            that are most important.




29   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                      t-mobile czech republic

            on-the-job training makes up the largest part of all development activities (up to 70%). for example, t-mobile
            encourages employees to accept tasks that will enable them to acquire or use a new skill. this will allow them
            not only to learn from their successes; but also to learn from their mistakes. with this approach, t-mobile invites
            employees to consider their mistakes as lessons that will help them in the future, rather than looking upon
            them as failures. employees can also learn by teaching others, such as by sharing their experience with their
            colleagues and new-starts or by supervising a thesis. our t-tank talent programme also works on the basis
            of on-the-job training, offering employees the opportunity to try to resolve strategic issues, discover how the
            business works, learn to think outside the box, present the outcomes of their management projects and use all
            of this to gain experience that they can put to use in their work.




                                  t-mobile regularly verifies
                                  employee satisfaction using
                                  surveys
                                                               5/2016                   11/2016



                                                          72% 79%
                                 are you
                                 happy at our
                                 company?



                                 would you



                                                           74% 86%
                                 recommend
                                 our company
                                 as a very good
                                 employer?




30   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

            t-mobile applies a non-discriminatory and uniform salary policy across the company. employees’ remuneration
            for work complies with the applicable provisions of the labour code, the related generally binding legislation
            and the internal remuneration provisions. the company also participates in remuneration surveys performed in
            the market and uses the outcomes of such surveys and the related analyses.


            in particular, the following remuneration principles are applied at t-mobile:

               t ransparency – remuneration rules are openly communicated to all employees by means of various
               communication channels (e.g., the intranet);

               f airness – emphasis is put on internal fairness upon the comparison of job positions across the company;

                ompetitiveness – maximum effort is made to ensure the competitiveness of the remuneration system as
               c
               compared with the selected relevant external market, which is aimed at attracting and retaining qualified and
               high-performing employees;

                otivation – remuneration is one of the tools used to motivate employees for high performance, leading to
               m
               the fulfilment of t-mobile’s targets.




31   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                    t-mobile czech republic

                                  environment




                    principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to
                    environmental challenges;

                    principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental
                    responsibility; and

                    principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally
                    friendly technologies.




32   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                             t-mobile czech republic

               t-mobile’s approach to environmental protection is based on the
               fundamental document within ems (iso 14001) – environmental
                  policy, which was approved by the top management and is
              available at www.t-mobile.cz. the areas of the company’s primary
               focus are based on important environmental aspects (ea), which
               were identified and are defined within the ems that is in place at
              the company (the ea register). these include power and material
                  consumption, waste generation and emissions into the air.

33   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                t-mobile czech republic

            in relation to power consumption, t-mobile focuses especially on its mobile network operation (gsm/lte
            technologies, air conditioning – transmitters, nodes and exchanges), data centres (technologies and air
            conditioning), administrative buildings (lighting, ventilation and it), t-mobile shops (lighting and ventilation),
            and, to a lesser extent, power consumption for central heating and natural gas and propane-butane heating of
            administrative buildings and at t-mobile shops.


            as regards material consumption, materials consumed within administrative and business activities include
            paper and toners and fuel for company cars. in relation to waste management, t-mobile monitors mixed
            municipal waste, plastics, paper, discarded electrical and electronic equipment, and batteries and, in relation
            to emissions into the air, emissions generated by the operation of company cars and alternative energy sources.


            in accordance with the internal policy, the csr unit in cooperation with the technology department defines
            environmental objectives, target values and programmes with respect to important eas. the programme
            objectives are: control and maintain, improve, and study or investigate.


            the “control and maintain” objective is suitable for those important environmental aspects which are subject to
            statutory environmental requirements, as the company undertakes to observe them in its policy. the company is
            committed to maintain compliance with the operational conditions stipulated in the operating instructions. the
            target value is always set as permanent.


            the “improve” objective is used for those important aspects where an improvement can be reached, such as
            reduction of emissions, waste, and waste water and consumption of the resources, and which are not mandatory
            according to environmental legislation. the target values are, if possible, measurable.




34   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                      t-mobile czech republic

            the “study or investigate” objective is applied to those important aspects where an improvement is being
            considered but where it is first necessary to do a feasibility study in order to identify the necessary resources.
            if the necessary resources are found to be acceptable, the “study or investigate” objective is followed by an
            objective to improve. a “study or investigate” objective can be cancelled if the study reveals that changes leading
            to an improvement are unacceptable for the company from the financial, technological or logistic perspective.
            all the important eas are monitored and measured.


            environmental programmes can be primarily designed as purely environmental or as programmes where the economic
            or technological objective of the project or change also has an impact on the environment (e.g., these include
            in particular projects involving the gsm/lte network technologies). the second category includes, for example:

                mart devices to control temperature on transmitters. control units installed on the transmitters use the
               s
               existing emergency ventilation and are cooled by means of outdoor air circulation (free cooling).

               e fficient power supply for the gsm network. following the modernisation of the gsm network, power
               consumption by individual pieces of equipment and devices decreased, as did the efficiency of power
               supply units because their capacity was not used as much as it had been before. by removing redundant
               rectifiers, capacity utilisation and efficiency of the sources again increased;

                tate-of-the-art air conditioning at the headquarters in prague’s roztyly district. the air conditioning in
               s
               technology rooms is more efficient, as it uses cool outdoor air circulation to control the temperature;

                reen site at the headquarters in prague’s roztyly district (air – air turbine, sun – solar panels). green
               g
               energy powers the outdoor and indoor 3g/lte coverage. the experimental laboratory was set up to study
               the possible use of renewable energy sources in the t-mobile network.




35   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

            potential emergency situations affecting the environment, which may occur in t-mobile’s buildings, are identified
            once a year; the methods for responding to, mitigating and preventing emergency situations (emergency plans)
            are revised with the same frequency.


            if an emergency situation occurs, its cause is identified promptly and the relevant emergency plans are reviewed.
            following the identification of the cause and a review of the emergency plans, a remedial and preventive measure
            is issued. the specific procedures for emergency situations are defined in the emergency plans.


            one hazardous substance of material importance is diesel fuel, which is used in the operation of alternative
            power supplies (diesel generators) at t-mobile. emergency plans have been prepared by t-mobile and
            approved by state administration bodies for the operation of diesel generators in case of any leakage of harmful
            substances. logs of diesel generators include records of visual checks carried out on any leakage of harmful
            substances. no leakage of any harmful substances was identified in 2016. all diesel tanks have been subject
            to and have passed tightness tests that have been carried out by authorized personnel in accordance with
            applicable legislation..


            as regards environmental protection, t-mobile cooperates with asekol in the disposal of waste electrical and
            electronic equipment (eee) and in the adherence to a collective fee system for all eee introduced into the market.
            t-mobile also cooperates with marius pedersen in waste disposal and environmental accident management.




36   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                      t-mobile czech republic

            environmental audit certificate

            t-mobile has been recycling electrical and electronic equipment (eee) for several years. in 2016, the company
            returned 6,500.92 kg of small electrical and electronic appliances and consumer electronics. asekol,
            a non-profit organisation arranging eee waste return, awarded an environmental audit certificate to t-mobile
            for its contribution to eee waste sorting and return for the benefit of the environment.


            the environmental audit certificate is based on a life cycle assessment (lca) study which assesses the system
            for the return of end-of-life crt televisions, computer monitors and small electrical and electronic appliances.
            it evaluates their collection, transportation and processing up to the phase of final recycling of individual parts
            of discarded appliances and their use in new products. impacts on the environment are quantified for each part.
            the study clearly showed that the return of eee, including the smallest appliances, has a considerably positive
            impact on the environment.


            in 2016, the recycling scheme helped t-mobile save 157.65 mwh of electric power, 11,199.79 litres of crude oil,
            601.99 m3 of water and 2.93 tonnes of primary sources. the company reduced greenhouse gas emissions by
            28,99 tonnes of co2-equivalents and the production of hazardous waste by 124.82 tonnes.




                                                 co2 emissions (t)

                                         4,000




                                         2,000




                                            0
                                                     2007     2008    2009    2010     2011    2012    2013    2014     2015      2016




37   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

        power consumption
        (mwh)

                     151,655
                                                                 the ongoing implementation of
        2015                                                     energy-saving measures, such as
                                                                 the installation of energy-efficient
                                                                 technologies and cooling alleys,

        2016         143,480                                     as well as the adjustment of free-
                                                                 cooling systems on technological
                                                                 premises, has led to a reduction in
        technologies (mobile and fixed network, data centres),
                                                                 power consumption.
        administrative buildings and t-mobile shops




     by raising awareness in this area
                                                                   water consumption
     through methods such as ems                                   (m3) water   water
     e-learning, internal events and the                                   consumption       consumption
                                                                                             per employee
     installation of technical equipment
     (e.g., lever taps), total water
     consumption was reduced compared
     to the previous year.
                                                                   2015   35,570 9.64
                                                                   2016   32,568 8.54




38   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                 t-mobile czech republic

        waste
                 paper (t)       plastics (t)     mixed (t)
       2015      16.2              4.7            145          the company has been successful
                                                               in reducing the weight of paper and
       2016      14.8                  4          161          plastic waste. there is potential
                                                               for improvement as regards mixed
                  paper           plastics         mixed
                  (kg per         (kg per          (kg per     waste, the increase of which has
                  employee)       employee)        employee)
                                                               been partly caused by the extension
       2015      4.4              1.3             39.3         of the company premises and moving
                                                               to a new building.
       2016       3.9              1               42.2

     t-mobile is aware of the global impact
     of greenhouse gas emissions and                            co2 emissions
     therefore it carefully monitors the co2
     emissions generated by the operation of
     its car fleet. the company has succeeded
     in reducing co2 emissions in the air
     thanks to the optimisation of its car
     fleet and the purchase, maintenance
                                                                2015           2,774
                                                                               2,581
     and operation of company cars. the
     company has particularly managed to
                                                                 2016
     reduce co2 emissions by switching to
     petrol cars and replacing some of the
     cars in its fleet (euro 6 engines).




39   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                              t-mobile czech republic

                                                            the installed capacity of
                                                            the solar panels located on
                                                            the roof of the roztyly hq
                                                            building is 15.8 kw (these
                                                            panels are one of the
                                                            alternative sources of energy
                                                            for the transmitter providing
                                                            signal coverage for the indoor
                                                            premises of the building).




                                                                            the installed capacity of
                                                                            the wind turbine located on
                                                                            the roof of the roztyly hq
                                                                            building is 3 kw (this turbine
                                                                            is one of the alternative sources
                                                                            of energy for the transmitter
                                                                            providing signal coverage for
                                                                            the indoor premises of the
                                                                            building).
40   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                         t-mobile czech republic

                           anti-corruption




                    principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms,
                    including extortion and bribery.




41   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                               t-mobile czech republic

              t-mobile exerts great efforts in fighting corruption in all its forms.
               the company has a certified compliance management system
               in place and its corporate social responsibility programme also
              includes rules in the area of compliance and a code of conduct.




42   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                   t-mobile czech republic

            t-mobile is a leading company in terms of transparent and legal business activities in the czech republic,
            thus contributing to the cultivation of the country‘s business and social environments. t-mobile puts great
            emphasis on ensuring that all employees act in accordance with the rules of ethical conduct and observe all
            laws, regulations, standards and internal policies. it is committed to act in accordance with the rules of ethical
            conduct and observe local and international laws, regulations, norms, standards and internal policies (e.g., the
            tmcz code of conduct, civil code, criminal code, and fcpa).


            no unlawful or unethical conduct or violation of internal rules, such as corruption, bribery, embezzlement and
            insider trading, is tolerated at the company under any circumstances.


            the compliance management focuses on addressing:

                iolation of the rules by employees in order to “obtain a benefit” for the company, e.g., active corruption,
               v
               violation of the competition rules and regulatory rules (set by the czech telecommunications office, cto);

               individual misuse of tangible and intangible assets for a person’s own benefit, e.g., theft, embezzlement,
               passive corruption and disclosure of a business secret;

                iolation of other laws and internal policies, e.g., ethical and moral principles, internal rules applicable to
               v
               sponsoring, gifts and lobbying.


            t-mobile observes all relevant regulations valid both in the czech republic and internationally and has put in
            place a robust programme to prevent corruption and fraud, which complies with the formal and procedural
            standards.




43   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

            the company is subject to regular internal and external audits and has been actively engaged in the area of
            ethical conduct and compliance.


            the purpose of compliance within the deutsche telekom group is to achieve the highest degree of transparency,
            openness and moral integrity, as well as to ensure that its employees act ethically, which is the foundation of the
            t-spirit. deutsche telekom currently focuses mainly on the compliance with the anti-corruption rules, as risks
            associated with a breach of these rules are high, and damage thus caused can be immeasurably costly.
            the company puts an emphasis on the responsibility of each employee and the compliance unit provides
            support in relation to the observance of the laws, regulations and ethical values in our everyday work. all
            employees are obliged to observe the compliance rules. compliance-related activities are managed by the
            compliance team within the legal and compliance department.


            the responsibilities of the compliance unit fall within four basic areas:
            compliance strategy and reporting
                evising and implementing strategies and procedures;
               d
                onitoring the compliance with the principles on a regular basis;
               m
                eporting to deutsche telekom.
               r


            information and prevention
               t raining for employees;
                onsultations for employees (the ask me! portal);
               c
                reparing and implementing policies;
               p
                pproving agreements related to compliance.
               a




44   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                       t-mobile czech republic

            detection
                etecting, investigating and evaluating cases;
               d
                eceiving reports of actual or alleged violations of the compliance rules, laws and regulations (the tell me!
               r
               portal);
                erforming regular audits and checks as to the observance of the compliance principles at the company.
               p


            reaction
               imposing sanctions, proposing and implementing remedial measures;
                ocumenting and solving cases (case management).
               d



            compliance system at tmcz


                                                      compliance strategy

             information and prevention                      detection                             reaction

                 policies and procedures
                                                            “tell me” portal
                      “ask me” portal                                                   sanctions and remedial measures
                                                      detection and investigation
                          training                                                              case management
                                                      regular audits and checks
                    e-learning courses


                                                   monitoring and reporting

                                                          communication




45   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                    t-mobile czech republic

               the compliance rules are contained in the following documents.


               the anti-corruption policy defines the rules for preventing corruption and avoiding conflicts of interest, granting
               and receiving benefits and invitations to/from third parties, sponsoring and agreements with consultants.


               the purpose of the policy is to set the basic rules to ensure that employees‘ actions are compliant with the
               laws and regulations in force to combat bribery, corruption and similar misconduct.


               the policy aims to define the rules in accordance with the international legislation and the rules applicable
               to the deutsche telekom group and to support the efforts to establish fair business practices in the czech
               republic.


               t-mobile regularly evaluates the compliance with the policy through the annual report on the compliance
               with the anti-corruption measures, which employees confirm.


               the code of conduct is a document that applies to all employees of the deutsche telekom group. this
               tool facilitates the achievement of the t-spirit corporate values in everyday operations and links these
               values with the standards set out within the existing legislative and internal rules. it is a requirement that the
               company imposes on itself, but it is also a commitment communicated externally.




46   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                            t-mobile czech republic

            the compliance unit organises training focused on the observance of the compliance rules for new employees
            as part of the induction days and for existing employees, as well as e-learning courses. participation in training
            is monitored and results are archived for the purposes of audits.


            t-mobile is subject to regular internal and external audits. according to available information, t-mobile was the
            first company in the czech republic to successfully undergo an external audit of its compliance management
            system (which is a management system for monitoring the compliance with the laws and internal regulations
            focused on the fight against corruption and fraud).


            the goal of the audit, performed by an international “big four” audit firm, was to assess whether the company
            had the right processes in place which could sufficiently detect law-infringement risks and whether it had
            implemented measures which would minimise risks in this area in the future. the original certification was
            performed in 2010; an audit to increase the certification level was carried out in 2013; and a re-certification audit
            was conducted in 2017.


            the company has committed itself to clear and transparent business activities and strong resistance against
            corruption and fraud. the company has issued a code of conduct for all of its employees and set up firm rules
            with respect to, e.g., the conclusion of contracts, the provision of presents and benefits or invitations to social
            events. special attention is paid to the monitoring of relationships with public officials.




47   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                        t-mobile czech republic

            in 2014, t-mobile was the first mobile operator in the czech republic to establish cooperation with transparency
            international czech republic, a non-governmental organisation whose objective is to monitor the state of
            corruption in the czech republic and actively contribute to its reduction. the company is a corporate member
            of the transparency international club.


            the cooperation with the czech branch of transparency international reinforces t-mobile’s efforts in adopting
            measures to prevent corruption. according to transparency international director david ondráčka, in the past
            twenty years, the fight against corruption has become a major issue which is on the agenda of international
            organisations, governments and businesses; compliance in organisations and internal control mechanisms
            play an important role.


            annually on 9 december, t-mobile observes the international anti-corruption day as do the other members of
            the deutsche telekom group. on this occasion, t-mobile organises internal programmes for employees, within
            which it stresses its commitment to act in accordance with the rules that are aimed at preventing corruption, and
            encourages its employees to observe these rules.


            compliance with the measures described above not only ensures long-term development of the company’s
            business but it also helps cultivate business environment in the czech republic.




                            international
                            anti-corruption
                            day

48   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                     t-mobile czech republic

                                measurement
                                of outcomes




49   un global compact communication on progress for 2016   t-mobile czech republic

            human rights

            health protection


             occupational diseases                                                                                                    0
             accidents at work                   20 (including minor accidents at work where the employee has not taken paid sick leave)
             number of days of paid sick leave                                  19,776 (approximately 5.8 days per person per year)




            labour

             part-time employment (%)
             2015                                                                                                                     5
             2016                                                                                                                     7


             flexible work arrangements (number of employees)                          2016                  2015                 2014
             part-time work                                                             226                   174                   178
             flexitime                                                                   145                  175                  158
             combination of home-office and in-office work                             1,524                1,254                  838
             shift plan                                                                1,241                1,130                 1,113


             number of hours/days worked in a home-office environment
             2016                                                                                          36, 833 hours / 4,604 days
             2015                                                                                          23, 073 hours / 2,884 days
             2014                                                                                          18, 649 hours / 2,331 days




50   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                               t-mobile czech republic

            environmental programmes

            installation of led lighting in all meeting rooms at the company’s
            headquarters in prague-roztyly and in selected rooms in hradec králové


            aspect:             power consumption		
            objective:	improve		
            target value:	reduction of power consumption; no value was set
            description:	installation of led lighting in meeting rooms, as led lights have lower power consumption
                                as compared with the original fluorescent tubes
            monitored by:	facility service unit		
            implemented by:	facility service unit		
            beginning:	november 2015		
            end:                december 2016		
            costs:              czk 1 million		
            benefit	the current annual energy savings are approx. 124,000 kwh. installation of led lights
                                helped reduce co2 emissions by 145 tonnes/year.




51   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                            t-mobile czech republic

            introduction of electronic invoices


            aspect:                   paper consumption		
            objective:	improve		
            target value:	g/lte-related postage saving; no value defined for paper saving
            description:	the business case was not based on paper saving but on the introduction of a fee for print
                                      invoices and on postage saving.
            monitored by:             csr		
            implemented by:	several organisational units
            beginning:	implementation began in 2007 – january 2008 		
            end:	underway		
            costs:	czk 37,774,000 (the cost of the entire project; electronic invoices were a part of that
                                      project); the cost of the supporting initiative in cooperation with unicef: production –
                                      czk 100,000 + donation of czk 223,023 to unicef.
            benefit:	at the end of may 2010, electronic invoices were used by 178,971 customers, which
                                      translates into a saving of approx. 3 sheets of paper x 178,971 per month. for each saved
                                      sheet of paper, t-mobile contributed czk 1 to unicef to support a programme within
                                      which drinking water was to be arranged for up to 880 families in need (10 litres of water
                                      are necessary to produce one a4 sheet of paper).




             number of electronic invoice activations
             status as at                january          july      july       july       july      june september       august
                                           2009          2009      2010       2011       2012       2015      2015        2016*
             number of active users       29,069        53,955   243,094   463,099    544,435    899,062   1,000,000   1,115,454




52   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                                        t-mobile czech republic

                                                            one fully-grown tree
          approx.                                           releases up to



          80,000                                            7,000
          a4 sheets of paper                                litres of oxygen every
          can be made using one                             day, meeting the daily
          fully - grown tree.                               consumption of 50 people.




                                                 one ton of sorted
                                                 paper saves
                                                 17 fully-grown trees.




53   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                   t-mobile czech republic

            compliance

            training

             classroom training                                                      2016
             title of training session                      employees trained   employees in scope           quota
             in-person training for new employees                        647                  647            100%



            ask me! portal

             issue                                                                                   number in 2016
             sponsorship                                                                                       131
             gifts                                                                                               2
             hosting events/hospitality                                                                          0
             accepting invitations                                                                               4
             business travel                                                                                     3
             data protection                                                                                     0
             conflicts of interest                                                                               0
             code of conduct                                                                                    25
             it security                                                                                         0
             antitrust law                                                                                       0
             other                                                                                               0
             total                                                                                             165




54   un global compact communication on progress for 2016                                            t-mobile czech republic

            further assistance

             issue                                          number in 2016
             sponsorship                                              131
             gifts                                                      2
             hosting events/hospitality                                 0
             accepting invitations                                      4
             business travel                                            3
             data protection                                            0
             conflicts of interest                                      0
             code of conduct                                           25
             it security                                                0
             antitrust law                                              0
             other                                                      0
             total                                                    165




55   un global compact communication on progress for 2016   t-mobile czech republic

company’s address:
t-mobile czech republic a.s.
tomíčkova 2144/1, 148 00 praha 4
http://t-mobile.cz/

report contact person:
eva karasová, csr manager
e-mail: eva.karasova@t-mobile.cz

graphic design:
cellula, s.r.o.

for more information:
www.t-mobile.cz/pomahame
   t-mobile pomahame
