corporate responsibility report 2016

           telekom albania


         embracing responsibility
          for a better tomorrow

corporate responsibility report 2016                         2


                                        contents

                                 a. message from our ceo

                                   b. about this report

                                        i. introduction
1. the ict sector
2. telekom albania
3. deutsche telekom and ote
4. products and services
5. memberships and recognition


                           ii. our strategy & management
introduction and summary
1. corporate governance
2. risk, compliance and business continuity
3. corporate responsibility management
4. stakeholder engagement and materiality analysis
5. achievements 2016 and targets 2017


                            iiι. our customers & suppliers
introduction and summary
1. responsible competition
2. responsible marketing
3. customer satisfaction
4. data and internet security
5. responsible procurement
6. achievements 2016 and targets 2017


                                        iv. our society
introduction and summary
1. economic value generated
2. digital divide and smart cities
3. social products and services
4. social contribution
5. achievements 2016 and targets 2017


                                      v. our employees
introduction and summary
1. employment and communication
2. health and safety

corporate responsibility report 2016                            3

3. fairness and diversity
4. training and development
5. life at work
6. achievements 2016 and targets 2017


                                  vι. our environment
introduction and summary
1. strategy and management
2. energy and climate change
3. raw materials and waste
4. electromagnetic fields
5. other impacts
6. achievements 2016 and targets 2017


                          c. information about the report
1. summary table
2. gri content index, global compact, sdg and iso26000 tables
3. glossary
4. feedback form

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                      4



                  a. message from our ceo
dear all,
the telecommunications sector has witnessed tremendous advancements in the last few years
and is still evolving, mainly due to the digital economy’s growth and the growth prospects of
new markets, such as internet of things (iot) applications. at the same time, the sector faces
challenges due to interrelated conditions, to which it must respond in order to overcome the
evolving difficulties. among others, such challenges include:
 the changing market demands.
 the increasing competition within the sector.
 the endeavor to find newer and better revenue streams.
 the diffusion of new and innovative practices.
 the necessity to maintain rock-solid quality of services and network reliability.

at telekom albania, we have long believed and strive to continuously improve our services, as
we believe that our long-term business success is inextricably linked with customer satisfaction
and loyalty. within this challenging environment, we remain fully committed to strengthen our
business and systematically engage with our stakeholders.

since 2006, we publish our annual corporate responsibility report, in order to establish a line
of communication with our stakeholders and improve information sharing. this year’s 11th
corporate responsibility report has been prepared according to the global reporting
initiative’s g4 guidelines and further reinforces our commitment to transparency and to
responsibility, in five main areas of corporate responsibility: strategy & management,
customers & suppliers, society, employees and environment. among others within 2016, we:
 achieved 96.4% population coverage and 73.3% urban population coverage through our 3g
     and 4g+ network respectively.
 implemented over 12,000 training hours to our sales network.
 communicated our code of conduct to 100% of our employees.
 increased the percentage of complaints resolved within 5 days to 93%.
 employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts.
 reduced our total co2 emissions by 11.5%.

the following pages present our response to the challenges we face, as well as our
achievements and results in detail, with qualitative and quantitative data and information, in
order for our stakeholders to be able to review and evaluate our performance. it is our belief
that the present report can be the basis for a further constructive dialogue to remain focused
and utilize an effective corporate responsibility approach to benefit our stakeholders.

have a pleasant reading,
dimitrios blatsios
chief executive officer




                                           g4-1

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                5


                          b. about this report

telekom albania’s present corporate responsibility report is the eleventh report
       our company issues. since 2006, we display in our annual corporate
responsibility report our approaches, programs and initiatives to understand and
 effectively manage our impacts, as well as the results related to our company’s
                             responsible operation.


principles
this report follows the global reporting initiative’s g4 guidelines, while the following have also been
used:
 the un’s global compact, for the principles of the report.
 the efqm’s radar card, for the presentation of quantitative data within the report.

scope
the corporate responsibility report:
 refers to the period 1/1/2016 – 31/12/2016 (unless indicated otherwise in certain points).
 refers to all activities of telekom albania sh.a. (referred as “telekom albania” or “company”).
 addresses all operations in albania (management, provision and support of telecommunication
    solutions, mobile telephony, mobile broadband, roaming, mobile applications and services, as well as
    sales of mobile phones, tablets and smartwatches).
 contains, as a norm, quantitative results for the last four years.
 contains, as a norm, quantitative data from direct measurements, with exceptions of estimations and
    any restatements of data presented in the previous corporate responsibility report 2015 clearly
    noted.

development
the   report    has       been     developed      in     collaboration     with     stream    management
(www.stream-eu.com)




terms
for convenient reading, please pay attention to the following terms and symbols:
 the terms “telekom albania”, “company” or “we” refer to telekom albania sh.a.
 the terms “deutsche telekom group” or “dt group” or “group” refer to all companies of the
    deutsche telekom group, namely deutsche telekom ag and its subsidiaries worldwide (including
    telekom albania).
 the terms “ote group” or “ote” refers to ote group of companies, which has operations in greece
    (through ote s.a. and cosmote s.a.), romania (through telekom romania) and albania (through
    telekom albania).
 the term “customers” refers to the final users of telekom albania’s products and services.
 the terms indicated as “iii-2a”, “vi-2b” etc. refers to the area, section and subsection of this report
    (e.g. used in the gri, global compact and stakeholder tables). for example, the term “iii-2a” makes
    reference to area iii (our customers & suppliers), section 2 (responsible marketing) and subsection a
    (“applying responsible marketing practices”).


               g4-3, g4-5, g4-6, g4-8, g4-22, g4-23, g4-28, g4-29, g4-30, g4-31, g4-33

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                           6


restrictions
telekom albania recognizes limitations in the report it publishes, which intends to handle in future
publications, such as:
 presentation of more quantitative data and objectives.
 external assurance of the report’s principles and content.

option of report
this report was prepared in accordance with the gri g4 guidelines, “core” option.

your feedback
telekom albania welcomes any questions, enquiries, clarifications or proposals to improve its corporate
responsibility reporting. kindly forward your comments, enquiries or suggestions to:

                                        telekom albania sh.a.
                                    corporate affairs department
                              rruga gjergj legisi, laprake, tirana, albania
                                 e-mail: contact_us@telekom.com.al

main symbols
for convenient reading of this report, please pay attention to the following symbols, which are widely
used:


√ good practice…
highlights examples of good practices implemented by telekom albania.


t group good practice…
highlights examples of good practices implemented by deutsche telekom group.


     policy…
highlights sections from formal corporate policies.


? did you know…
highlights information of particular interest.


      your opinion…
highlights findings from customer surveys.


# benchmarks…
highlights benchmarks within the deutsche telekom group.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             7


                                 i. introduction
1. the ict sector
a. the international ict sector
information and communication technology (ict) extends beyond the typical information technology
(it), as it encompasses all devices, components, applications and systems that allow people and
organizations to network and interact in the digital world. ict’s components include the internet-
enabled sphere and mobile networks, satellite communications, as well as the more traditional landline
communications, radio and television broadcast.

the sector has the potential to provide high quality communication for everyone (despite differences in
age, physical health etc.), contribute to economic growth and facilitate business operations. on the
other hand, the sector’s potential negative impacts are related to its operations, such as energy and
resources consumption, waste creation from products and their packaging, as well as personal data
protection and the use of internet by children.

according to data from the international telecommunication union (itu), the united nations’
specialized agency for ict, approximately seven billion people (95% of the global population) live in
areas that are covered by a mobile network (2g) and broadband networks (3g or above) reach 84% of
the global population, but only 67% of rural population. penetration of lte networks has been
widespread over the last three years, as it currently reaches approximately 4 billion people (53% of
global population).



                     population coverage of mobile networks




                source: itu’s ict facts and figures 2016 report, estimated figures for 2016



the total number of mobile-broadband subscriptions worldwide reached approximately 3.6 billion in
2016, compared to 3.2 billion in 2015 and there were approximately 12 fixed-broadband subscriptions
per 100 inhabitants worldwide in 2016, with europe, the americas and cis having the highest
penetration rates.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 8


according to the “smarter 2030” report by the global e-sustainability initiative (gesi), the international
strategic partnership of ict companies and industry associations, by 2030 the adoption of ict sector’s
solutions from other industries will:
  allow 75% of the global population to be connected via smart devices and broadband internet.
  generate over $11 trillion in economic benefits per year, the equivalent of china’s gdp in 2015.
  connect 2.5 billion extra people to the “knowledge economy”.
  deliver e-health services to 1.6 billion people across developing and developed countries and
     access to e-learning solutions to 500 million people.
  increase agricultural crop yields by 30% (approximately 900 kg per hectare per year).


b. the albanian ict sector
over the past few years, the albanian government has recognized the sector’s importance for greater
economic and social development, through a series of policies and initiatives to enhance supply of ict
services. in 2014, the electronic communication sector as part of ict contributed approximately 5% - 6%
in the country’s gdp and the it market value alone was slightly less than €150 million, which
corresponded to approximately 1% of the country’s gdp. there were over 200 it companies operating
within the country and the number of it professionals exceeded 8,000, with 10 universities teaching it-
related subjects and approximately 530 it graduates each year. according to the albanian ict
association’s (aita) qualitative data:
  albanian ict companies specialize in software design and development, system integration and
     hardware distribution.
  the majority of albanian ict companies are small and medium-sized companies.
  the increasing quality of national it education strongly supports the sector’s future growth.
  approximately 80% of ict companies work with international companies in the domestic market.
  ict companies gradually expand their presence in eu markets.

in this respect, at the end of 2016, according to akep, the albanian regulator in the field of electronic
communications and postal service, the average monthly consumption of calls, sms and internet data
from mobile service subscribers have increased by 14.9%, 14% and 118% respectively compared to
2015. furthermore, there were approximately:
  5.3 million mobile service subscribers, an increase of 7.8% compared to 2015.
  1.7 million broadband active users for internet access from mobile networks, an increase of 30%
     compared to 2015.
  249,000 subscribers to fixed telephone lines, an increase of 9.7% compared to 2015.
  266,000 broadband subscribers for internet access internet from fixed networks, an increase of
     10% compared to 2015.
  187,000 subscribers to fixed networks with access to integrated services (telephone / internet /
     tv), an increase of 25% compared to 2015.


2. telekom albania
a. who we are
telekom albania sh.a. is a telecommunications company that operates in albania, previously as
albanian mobile communication (amc), which was founded in 1995 as the first mobile
telecommunications company in albania. the company is registered in albania under law no.
7638/14.12.1992 “on trade companies” as amended and its headquarters are located in tirana.
telekom albania has been part of ote group since 2000 and in 2008 joined deutsche telekom group
(dt group), the leading telecommunications company in europe, and has adopted common values and
principles. at the end of 2016, telekom albania offered its services to over 1.8 million subscribers and is
currently one of the best t2m (technology-to-market) operators for service implementation within the
dt group.




                          g4-3, g4-5, g4-6, g4-7, g4-8, g4-9, g4-13, g4-56

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              9



                                     market performance
                                                                   2015       2016
                   customer base (million)                         1.73        1.84
                   internet customers (million)                    0.28        0.37
                   post-paid customers (million)                   0.1         0.1
                   pre-paid customers (million)                    1.63        1.73
                   customer market share (%)                       37.3         38
                   population coverage (%)                         99.8        99.8
                   territory coverage (%)                          92.5        92.5
                   new/improved offers provided (number)           145          75
                   new services provided (number)                   15          31
                   shops (number)                                  139         152
                                          own shops (number)        20          18
                                       partner shops (number)      119         134



                        we increased our subscribers by 6.3%

b. our culture
telekom albania’s vision and guiding principles reflect its strong customer focus:



                                                vision
“to be the leading integrated operator in the albanian market in all segments and
    geographic areas, in order to provide an excellent customer experience”.

                                       guiding principles




customer delight and simplicity drive our actions: customer satisfaction drives our actions: we are
aware of the responsibility that we have towards our customers. they give us their trust, and we neither
want nor are we allowed breaching that trust. but, on the other hand, we want not only satisfying our
customers, but delighting them. the customers’ thoughts, feelings, needs and experience drive our work
at telekom albania.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               10

respect and integrity guide our behaviour: we at telekom albania strive to create a climate of
acceptance and mutual trust by respecting the individuality of others, acting openly and honestly, and
calling for and cultivating individual and cultural diversity. this principle goes beyond respecting one
another as colleagues in everyday business. it is also about truly respecting customers, partners,
suppliers and shareholders.

team together team apart: this principle focuses on our group’s culture of working together. we listen
to the others, discuss issues openly and professionally and seek the opinion of the others. but once a
decision has been made, the decision is upheld by the entire team.

best place to perform and grow: good employees are the number one factor for achieving success. to
become the most highly regarded company in the industry and beyond, telekom albania relies on the
commitment and success of each one of its employees. this principle combines the devotion and
commitment of both its management and employees in order to telekom albania to be the best place
to perform and grow in career.

i’m t – count on me: “we deliver what we promise!” that is the only way to win our customers’ trust
and survive in the competitive market. that also means that every colleague is personally committed to
finding a solution to a customer’s problem. we can rely on each other, just as our shareholders and
customers are able to rely on the company.




t group good practice… guiding principles day
within 2016, deutsche telekom group organized the 7th guiding principles day across all companies
worldwide. the event featured various campaigns and team events, such as competitions, workshops
and panel discussions, through which all employees could think about the guiding principles
independently and suggest ideas to implement them in their day-to-day activities. it must be noted that
the event focused on all five guiding principles under the motto “managing the seven-year itch”,
instead of focusing on one individual guiding principle, as was the case in all previous years. the event
also featured the “guiding principles heroes”, a recognition ceremony digitally broadcasted to all
locations worldwide, where employees could nominate those colleagues and teams who explicitly
showed their commitment to implement our guiding principles.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                           11

c. our history


      •albanian mobile communciation (amc) launches commercial operations, being the first
 1996 mobile telecommunications company in albania.
      •cosmote acquires 85% of amc's share capital, through cosmo-holding albania s.a.,
       cosmote’s 97% owned subsidiary.
 2000 •amc introduces the albakarta pre-paid card.


        •amc launches albakarta roaming services.
 2002

        •amc’s network reaches 90% population coverage and 80% geographic coverage.
 2003

        •amc launches “amc wireless internet” via gprs.
 2004

      •amc launches mms services.
      •amc adopts cosmote corporate identity, being the first cosmote subsidiary to visually
 2005 consolidate its position in the group.

      •amc introduced business programs for corporate customers, addressing both smes and large
 2006 companies with integrated solutions.

      •amc is the first operator to introduce edge technology in the albanian mobile market.
 2007 •amc introduces what’s up pre-paid brand.

      •amc adopts cosmote’s corporate positioning and new communication campaign under the
 2010 slogan “we see the world as you do”.

      •amc is the highest bidder for the second mobile telephony license in albania.
 2011 •amc introduces “amc fix” fixed services.
      •amc launches 3rd generation services in albania, with the highest market data speeds (up to
       48 mbps).
 2012 •amc's 3g infrastructure extends to approximately 95% of albania.
      •amc is awarded with the business excellence prize for its 3g service, as well as the partners
       albania's philanthropy 2012 prize for its continuous social contribution.
      •amc was granted the license to offer 4g services.
      •amc changes its branding to telekom albania and rebranded all company shops and assets.
 2015
      •telekom albania becomes the first mobile operator to launch the 4g+ service in albania.

      •telekom albania introduces the mobile payment service and the one life free healthcare
       program.
      •telekom albania is awarded with the "best in test" certificate for its mobile network during
 2016 the p3 performance assessment.
      •telekom albania is awarded with the superbrand award in the category "mobile telephony"
       in albania.

   corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  12

   d. our shareholders
   the majority of telekom albania’s share capital belongs to cosmote mobile telecommunications s.a.,
   as indicated in the following table:



                                        shareholder structure
                                           shareholder                           share
                         cosmote mobile telecommunications s.a.*               99.757%
                         other small shareholders (employees or former
                                                                                0.243%
                         employees of telekom albania sh.a.)
*on september 4, 2014, cosmote’s board of directors and cosmo holding albania (cha) initiated the merger of cha
by cosmote, through which participation of cha in telekom albania passed to cosmote. the shareholder structure
                    was approved by the albanian national business center on april 1, 2016.
                                           data refer to 01/06/2017.



   e. our strategy
   our philosophy is all about to ensure an unparallel customer experience and service. our aim is to have
   our customers connected anytime and anyplace, which is the basis of our slogan “moments that
   connect us”. albania was the twelfth european country to acquire the telekom brand identity and what
   it stands for (innovation, competence and simplicity), which drives our commitment to offer innovative
   services to our customers.

   during 2016, we focused our strategy in the following main blocks:



                                             strategic blocks

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                       13

f. our structure
telekom albania’s management consists of highly qualified professionals in the mobile
telecommunications industry with extensive technical, commercial and brand development knowledge.
the company’s organizational structure is depicted below:



                               organizational structure




3. deutsche telekom and ote
a. about deutsche telekom group
deutsche telekom is one of the world's leading integrated telecommunications companies, with
headquarters in bonn, germany, and presence in over 50 countries worldwide. the group provides
fixed-network/broadband, mobile communications, internet and iptv products and services for
consumers, as well as ict solutions for business and corporate customers. dt group employs
approximately 218,300 employees worldwide and connects millions of people around the world, as it
has approximately 165 million mobile customers, 29 million fixed-line customers and 19 million
broadband connections.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                           14

                                   worldwide presence




                                     data refer to 31/12/2016.



within 2016, the group achieved improved financial results due to its continuous investments in
technology applications and innovative services to its customers around the world. with approximately
218,300 employees around the world, the group’s revenues within 2016 reached €73.1 billion, out of
which 66% was outside germany (for further information, please visit https://www.telekom.com).

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                            15




as a result of its strategy, market presence and long-term investments in network quality, innovation
and customer service, deutsche telekom was once again included in the brand finance global 500
ranking as the most valuable european telecommunications brand with a brand value of approximately
$33.2 billion (the highest brand value in its history), increase by 6.7% compared to 2015. at the same
time, deutsche telekom is the second most valuable german brand in the world after bmw, for the
second year running, followed by mercedes-benz in third place.

b. about ote group
ote group is the leading telecommunications provider in greece and one of the largest
telecommunications companies in the south east europe, with presence in greece, romania and
albania.

 corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                       16

                                         ote group structure




 in terms of market capitalization, ote is among the largest listed companies in the athens stock
 exchange with €4.4 billion and its share capital is divided into 490,150,389 shares.




*includes voting rights attached to 4% of shares owned by state pension fund and voting rights attached to 5% of
                      shares owned by hradf (hellenic republic asset development fund).
                                            data refer to 31/12/2016.



 ote is the leading operator in greece with approximately 2.7 million retail lines and a 45% retail
 broadband market share. ote’s business objectives are to rapidly expand its new generation networks
 and gradually cover the entire greek territory with vdsl and high speed 4g networks. ote group was

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             17

the first operator to roll out lte network in greece and is currently the leader with superior coverage
capacity, as well as the first to launch 4g+ mobile broadband network.

at the moment, ote has achieved:
  46% vdsl coverage, with high speed vdsl broadband service already adopted by 13.4% of ote’s
     retail broadband base.
  93% population coverage with its 4g network.
  82% population coverage with its lte advanced (4g+) network.




4. products and services
a. our products and services
telekom albania offers telecommunication services to individuals, families, public institutions and
companies. our main products and services are described below (for further information, please visit
www.telekom.com.al):
  post-paid (contract) and pre-paid services, for retail and business customers with various rate
    plans, including unlimited packages. the company provides dedicated offers to business customers,
    which are customized based on each customer’s need and company size.
  broadband internet services, with speeds of up to 225 mbps in 4g+ network.
  roaming services, where customers can travel abroad, connect to one of our partner networks and
    stay in touch with their families and friends.
  mobile phone, devices and accessories such as tablets, laptops, headsets, bluetooth products,
    headphones, chargers and mobile phone cases.
  mobile tv for smartphone display, which is offered in cooperation with tring digital platform and
    allows subscribers to chose up to 40 tv programs on their screen, including premium content such
    as prestigious football events (e.g. champions league).
  cloud services.




                                            g4-4, g4-12

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 18

   fixed-line broadband, which is offered through partners and covers all albania, using three
    different technologies: adsl, fiber and satellite.
   b2b (business-to-business) solutions, such as dentem.
   m2m (machine-to-machine) solutions, such as the cash registers project.
   other value added services, such as the electronic bill application e-bill, various mobile applications
    (e.g. explore albania, airbnb, telekom extra app and lenz), telekom transfer, telekom extra
    credit, conference call, electronic recharge, talk 2 me, hd voice, m-pay, missed call identification,
    lookout.



                                        sales of products
                                                                     sales in 2016
                 total sales of products (number)                        24,441
                                     smartphones (number)                15,809
                                   feature phones (number)               6,004
                                     fixed phones (number)               2,392
                                            tablets (number)              214
                                          netbooks (number)                22




√ good practice… cash registers
telekom albania is the exclusive holder of the cash registers project, which has started in 2009 and
daily transmits all the sales activity from all cash registers in various shops and points of sale to the
general directorate of tax authority’s main server, through the company’s secured 2g/3g/4g networks
and a dedicated apn (access private network).


within 2016, telekom albania offered over several new and improved offers and services, which include
the following:
  the mobile payment service in cooperation with m-pay, which facilitates various payments.
     subscribers can activate and access m-pay services after their registration to the mobile payment
     platform and telekom albania enables free-of-charge all m-pay services, such as pay oshee bills
     (the electricity power distribution system operator in albania) or purchase digitalb products
     through mobile, as well as recharge their pre-paid account or activate bundles.
  the one family bundle, which features advanced products and services for families, where family
     members can be included in the one family group. one family is an innovative post-paid solution
     to allow families to reduce their overall communication expenses and increase safety for their
     children.
  the dentem platform, which allows dentists to better manage their patients’ files with digital
     records and better stay in touch with their patients via e-mail or sms notifications, as well as with
     their digital agenda.
  the ongoing partnership with microsoft to offer the entire office 365 portfolio, which features the
     latest microsoft cloud solution regarding office products and provides users with 1tb storage. the
     service allows customers to have access to office whenever and wherever needed, as well as work
     anywhere, anytime with any device. except for office 365, b2b portfolio offers the following
     features, which can combine into a single package and monthly bill for companies:
      o mobile broadband internet service.
      o xdsl internet solutions.
      o fix telephony.
      o devices in installments.
  various smartphones and accessories such as apple iphone se, iphone 7 and iphone 7 plus,
     samsung s7, s7 edge and gear vr, as well as the smartphones touch (exclusively in albania).

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               19

   the telekom summer hotspot service, which featured free wi-fi service to telekom customers in
    the largest and most populated seaside attractions in the country, where all customers were
    eligible to access telekom wi-fi through a simple sms for 24 hours.
   the telekom extra app, which is a unique and innovative loan service that allows our pre-paid
    subscribers to request a package in advance when their current package has or is about to expire
    and they are at or near a zero balance.

b. our infrastructure network
we have designed our telecommunication network with sufficient communication channels (network
capacity) and simultaneous elimination of all interferences, in order to provide high quality services to
our subscribers. at the same time, we continuously monitor network performance and strive to
optimize quality of communications, through suitable and innovative technologies. the fundamental
elements of the company’s telecommunication network are its base stations (bts), which handle the
communications interface between the user's device (either caller or receiver) and the network. a wide
range of the necessary signal transmission and reception systems are installed in bts, which connect
them with the network’s central points (i.e. base station controllers and mobile switching centers).

since 1996, telekom albania has invested over €29 million in technological infrastructure and network
upgrade. currently, telekom albania has achieved 87.8% territory coverage and 96.4% population
coverage in its 3g network, which was further deployed in 110 new sites, for a total of 480 sites.
additionally, the company continued to deploy its services in the 1.8 and 2.6 ghz spectrum and
managed to achieve 38% territory coverage and 73.3% population coverage, with lte1800 deployed in
200 sites.

in september 2015, the company was the first mobile operator to launch the 4g+ service in albania
reaching up to 225 mbps, which enables faster internet access and data transmission. the service is
currently available to 60 municipalities all over albania in 200 sites, with 73.3% urban population
coverage in 2016.



                   we achieved 96.4% population coverage and
                  73.3% urban population coverage through our
                        3g and 4g+ network respectively

c. our sales network
telekom albania continuously invests to develop its nationwide sales distribution network, in order to
effectively serve its customers. our sales network at the end of 2016 included 152 shops across the
country, compared to 139 in 2015.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 20




                 we increased the number of shops in our sales
                               network by 9.3%

we strive to ensure that our sales network is properly trained and to develop their employees’ skills,
though:
  trainings, either in-class or on-the-job.
  regular information provided through various channels, with over 300 communications prepared
    and sent within 2016.



                             trainings in our sales network
                                                                                 trainings in 2016
     total training hours (hours)                                                     12,005
                   induction for sales representatives and promoters (hours)          2,898
               new products and services (e.g. one life, one family) (hours)          4,475
                  new platforms and features (e.g. uft, retail, epos) (hours)         1,763
                                                     sales techniques (hours)         2,869
     type of training
                                               in-class training hours (hours)        8,919
                                            on-the-job training hours (hours)         3,086



                 we implemented over 12,000 training hours to
                             our sales network

d. our value chain
for our operations, we utilize inputs from deutsche telekom group and ote group (information
systems) and our suppliers (products, accessories, equipment, materials and various services). the
available products, such as mobile phones, devices and accessories, as well as telecommunication

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             21

services are distributed and provided to our retail customers through various sales channels, which
include partner and own shops and our online shop, as well as the b2b channel for business customers.



                                      our value chain

                                               dt group                                 suppliers

                                                                                         products
                                                                                        accessories
          information                         information
                                                                                         materials
            systems                             systems                                 equipment
                                                                                         services




                                                                                                mobile
                   broadband                               value
 telephony                            television                                                phones,
                    internet                               added         ict services
  services                             services                                                devices &
                    services                              services
                                                                                              accessories




                                             telekom
                                             albania
             products                                                              services




 partner shops                  own shops                      online shop                       b2b




                                                   customers

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             22


5. memberships and recognition
a. our memberships
we are members in the following institutions and organizations:
 albanian chamber of commerce and industry.
 american chamber of commerce and industry.
 foreign investors association of albania.
 hellenic business association of albania.
 german industry and trade association.
 albanian csr network.

b. our awards and recognitions
recognition of the company’s efforts to become more responsible is our moral reward and satisfaction to
continue and implement our long-term programs and initiatives. in 2016, telekom albania received the
following awards:
 the first place among mobile operators in albania in the p3 performance test for mobile networks, as a
    recognition of the quality and offered services within its mobile network, following an independent
    assessment, which resulted in the “best in test” certificate from p3 communications (see section iii-
    3b).
 the superbrand award in the category “mobile telephony” in albania, as a result of its european-
    technology standards, the largest and most trusted network and excellent customer experience at
    each point of sale.




                                              g4-16

corporate responsibility report 2016                                            23
          ii. our strategy & management

     operate responsibly for our stakeholders

   introduction and summary

our size:
5 areas of corporate responsibility
11 stakeholder groups
24 quantitative targets in the report
89 gri indicators in the report
“core” level report, according to gri g4 guidelines

our objective:
to incorporate responsibility into our business operations and daily management
activities, as well as create measurable and tangible results to create value for our
stakeholders.


our achievements:
- we have communicated our code of conduct to 100% of our employees.
- no violation cases concerning our code of conduct occurred.
- we trained 88% of employees (100% of new hired employees) on compliance
  policies.
- we trained 110 employees on anti-corruption issues and procedures.
- we had no incidents of corruption.
- we had no non-conformities from audits regarding the operation of
  management systems.
- we quadrupled the number of gri indicators and increased by 12.2% the
  number of quantitative indicators we make reference to within the report.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  24


1. corporate governance
a. embedding responsibility into the way we operate
code of conduct: the company has adopted ote group’s code of conduct, which constitutes a statement
of our values and principles and sets the framework for our behaviour and business relationships with
various stakeholders. the code strongly depends on the five guiding principles, as they guide its
implementation in our daily work and states the code’s requirements on the following issues:
 guiding principles.
 behavioral requirements pertaining to integrity.
     o business relationships with customers.
     o business relationships with competitors.
     o business relationships with suppliers.
     o relationships with third parties.
     o handling of information.
     o preventing conflicts of interest.
 adhering to behavioral standards.
 questions, advice and outlook.

it must be noted that the code of conduct:
 is available on the corporate website and intranet and has been communicated to all employees via e-
    mail, as well as via printed leaflets during the telekom albania compliance office campaign. all
    employees have signed the compliance statement to formally commit and accept the company’s
    compliance policies, including the code of conduct.
 applies to all bod members, directors, managers and employees of telekom albania (despite contract
    type), as well as other partners, such as consultants and contracted employees.
 is incorporated in all employment contracts.
 states that disciplinary actions for violations apply to individuals with intentional and unlawful
    misconduct, regardless of their rank or position, especially in cases of corrupt behaviour or severe
    damage to the company’s assets.
 respects local laws and regulations, as well as related cultural customs.
 specifically states adherence to the regulations regarding contracts for public sector orders, especially
    to avoid public officials’ undue influence.
 requires from employees not to pursue personal interests that conflict with corporate interests, such
    as the result of any employment outside the company, in which an employee is available to a third
    party, regardless paid or unpaid work, including self-employment (secondary employment).
 does not permit the private use of company’s property, unless otherwise stated in each individual’s
    rights, in collective or personal agreements or according to operational procedures and regulations.
 is communicated to telekom albania partners and suppliers through the corporate website.



                 we have communicated our code of conduct to
                           100% of our employees


√ good practice… prohibiting gifts and donations
telekom albania’s code of conduct strictly prohibits employees to offer, promise or grant illegal
benefits to national or international public officials or to decision-makers in the private sector, in order
to achieve preferential treatment or to influence a decision in favor of the ote group companies. at the
same time, employees are not allowed to be influenced or accept any offers by suppliers or request
illegal offers from our suppliers, in order to gain illegal advantages.



                       g4-34, g4-39, g4-43, g4-44, g4-50, g4-56, g4-57, g4-58

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  25

in cases of doubt whether or not accept a gift or in cases of accepting a gift (other than flowers, sweets,
drinks, coffees and music cds/dvds) of over €150 per calendar year per business partner, an invitation
to a business meal or to an event from a customer or supplier, employees can consult the compliance
office through the consultation desk “ask me!”. likewise, if there are any illegal gifts or benefits from or
to our employees, they are required to inform their immediate managers or report the incident through
the “tell me!” communication channel.

during 2016, there were 3 cases related to invitations to events/travel and 2 cases related to donations
raised by the corporate affairs department through the consultation desk “ask me!”, which were
reviewed for compliance with corporate policies and possible conflicts of interest. although all cases
were found to be compliant with our policies, we required special attention for limits of gifts in cases
related to invitations to events, in order to be complaint with the limits stated in our policy on
“accepting and granting of benefits”.




√ good practice… seeking advice and reporting violations
all employees can seek advice on questions they may have during their day-to-day work activities and
are not covered in detail by the code of conduct. for such issues, employees can either contact their
supervisor or turn to the consultation desk “ask me!”, which answers questions submitted to the
compliance office about the code of conduct (in case of legal issues, the legal department provides its
a legal opinion and input). the “ask me!” process can be conducted via the following channels:
-    send an e-mail to: complianceoffice@telekom.com.al or complianceoffice@ote.gr.
-    contact the number: +355 4 2275321 (monday to friday, 8 am - 5 pm).

all employees are obliged to adhere to the code of conduct’s principles and provisions and if they
identify any actual or potential violations (e.g. non-compliance with the code of conduct, policies and
procedures, sarbanes-oxley and financial statements matters, employee relations, abuses,
discrimination, corruption, theft, money laundering, any misconduct which could harm the company’s
reputation or any attempts to conceal any of the above), they can report them to their immediate
manager or via telephone or regular mail, as well as by fax or e-mail. in cases where employees fear of
serious personal, professional or social harm, they can anonymously report violations, through any of
the following “tell me!” communication channels:
-    send a mail to: telekom albania sh.a., internal audit & compliance office, rruga gjergj legisi,
     laprake, tirana, albania.
-    send an e-mail to: complianceoffice@telekom.com.al.
-    contact the number: +355 4 2275321 (monday to friday, 9 am - 5 pm).
-    use             the            electronic           whistle-blowing            form             at:
     https://www.cosmote.gr/mobile/complaintsform/default_en.aspx.

in any case, the company:
-    protects the confidentiality of anyone who reports any violations.
-    ensures that all information submitted are handled and investigated only by specially trained
     individuals.
-    ensures that there will be no direct or indirect retaliation for the whistle-blower who, on good will,
     reports any violations.

during 2016, there were no employees’ inquiries through the consultation desk “ask me!” and no
reports or complaints raised through the “tell me!” communication channels.

 corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  26

                        no violation cases concerning our code of
                                    conduct occurred


 √ good practice… training on compliance policies
 telekom albania conducts trainings on its compliance policies, in order to communicate the company’s
 culture of ethics and compliance. during 2016:
 -    telekom albania compliance office conducted two classroom trainings on the main compliance
      policies (including the code of conduct) to its employees, as well as top and middle management
      members, with an 88% participation rate.
 -    all new hired employees were trained on the company’s compliance policies and the code of
      conduct, as part of their induction training.



                     we trained 88% of employees (100% of new
                      hired employees) on compliance policies

 b. upholding corporate governance principles
 telekom albania complies with the legal requirements as defined by the government of albania,
 telecommunication supervisory authority and other legal institutions regarding corporate governance.
 at the same time, the company complies with well-recognized national rules of corporate behaviour and
 adheres to the corporate governance principles determined by the corporate governance code for
 unlisted joint-stock companies in albania.

 general shareholders assembly: the general shareholders assembly is the highest-ranking governance
 board of telekom albania and is responsible to take decisions for important corporate issues, according
 to law no. 9901/14.04.2008 “on traders and trading companies”.

council of supervisors: the council of supervisors meets at least quarterly and is responsible to:
 ensure that the company’s activities and operations comply with laws and the respective legislative
  provisions.
 review and monitor any actual or potential situations of conflict of interest and compliance with the
  legislation.
 receives and reviews all notices of actual or potential conflict of interest they bod members may have.
 supervise the bod’s activity.



                                      council of supervisors
                                                       executive        term start       term end
                name                    role
                                                       member             date*            date
        konstantinos liamidis        chairman              χ            29/05/2016       29/05/2018
        georgios tsonis            vice-chairman           χ            29/05/2016       29/05/2016
        pavlos vichos                 member               χ            29/05/2016       29/05/2016
*decided by the general shareholders assembly on 22/04/2016 and approved by the albanian national business
                                          center on 13/06/2016.

 corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  27

 board of directors: the board of directors (bod) directors meets at least quarterly and is responsible to
 define telekom albania’s general policies and strategy, as well as supervise the company’s operational
 management and overall activity.



                                         board of directors
                                                            executive      term start      term end
                name                        role
                                                            member           date*           date
      charalampos mazarakis              chairman                χ         01/05/2016      01/05/2018
      georgios athanasopoulos         vice-chairman              χ         01/05/2016      01/05/2018
                                      chief executive
      dimitrios blatsios
                                       officer (ceo)
                                                                 √         01/05/2016      01/05/2018

      evryviadis sarsentis               member                  χ         01/05/2016      01/05/2018
      erini nikolaidi                     member                 χ         01/05/2016      01/05/2018
*decided by the general shareholders assembly on 28/04/2016 and approved by the albanian national business
                                          center on 03/05/2016.




 as described in company’s statue, the bod consists of five members for a three-year term and each
  bod member can be re-appointed.
 the chief executive officer (ceo) is responsible for the company’s operational management.
 employees may bring economic, environmental and social issues to the attention of the bod through
  the formal dialogue of top management with employee representatives and the formally established
  processes (e.g. environmental issues are reported to the environmental management team, which
  reports directly to the top management). however, it must be noted that there were no critical
  concerns communicated to the bod within 2016.
 currently, there are no specific criteria related to corporate responsibility included in the ceo’s and
  the boards’ performance evaluation.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             28

 wages and other compensation of bod members are defined according to general shareholders
  assembly’s decisions.
 the general shareholders assembly approves the employment contracts of executive directors, which
  define their compensation, including performance-related compensation procedures.
 bod members are nominated by telekom albania’s majority shareholder (cosmote s.a.) and elected
  by the council of supervisors. at the moment, there are no diversity factors considered for their
  nomination in pursuance to the albanian law requirements.
 the company considers a global management consulting firm’s annual benchmark report to gain an
  overview about its competitiveness during determining remuneration, as well as the annual albanian
  market survey for insights and analyses on remuneration package for all job levels compared to market
  data.
 the audit committee supports and assists the board of directors to exercise its supervisory role and
  obligations towards shareholders, investors and others stakeholders regarding the:
    o integrity of financial statements.
    o adequacy of internal control procedures and systems.
    o observance and adequacy of accounting and financial reporting processes.
    o evaluation of the external auditors’ independence.
    o supervision of the internal audit process.


c. conducting internal audits
the internal audit and compliance function supports and assists telekom albania to accomplish its
objectives through a systematic approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk
management, control and governance processes, with the following main responsibilities:
 continually assess the adequacy of internal controls.
 perform internal audits in all corporate functions.
 audit specific objectives according to management requests.
 confirm compliance with the company’s policies and procedures, as well as the respective regulatory
   framework.
 report any deviations related to the above.

telekom albania’s internal audit function operates according to the internal audit charter and complies
with the “international standards for the professional practice of internal auditing”, as published by
“the institute of internal auditors”. the internal audit team participated in two dt group common
audit projects during 2016, in order to further exchange knowledge and practices, as well as enhance
constructive cooperation along dt group companies. additionally, ote greece and telekom albania
have created a mixed team of auditors, in order to conduct the internal assessment in the respective
companies.

during 2016, internal audit was utilized for:
 7 audit projects.
 the annual surveillance audit for the international standards (namely iso 9001:2008, iso 14001:2004
  and ohsas 18001:2007), in order to assure their effective operation and implementation, as well as
  their compliance with the respective legislation.
 56 new management actions.
 the assessment of dt group internal controls system.
 1 other ad-hoc project.
 furthermore, telekom albania lead auditor assessed ote greece’s process management and quality
  process and the ote group lead auditor assessed selected aspects of the environment and health &
  safety management systems.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 29


2. risk, compliance and business continuity
a. identifying and managing risks
technology advancement and proliferation of technological innovation, as well as globalization of
economies, have set corresponding challenges for the telecommunications sector. due to the nature of
the sector’s activities, telekom albania is exposed to certain risks, which can be outlined below:



                                                 risks

                category                                           description


                                           conditions of the macroeconomic environment, such as
                                           credit, interest rates and foreign exchange rates
 financial
                                           delayed payment of customer obligations
                                           intense competition in the telecommunications sector
                                           conditions which affect normal working operations and
                                           work-life balance

 labour                                    health and safety hazards of employees engaged in work
                                           activities of the supply chain, especially for high-risk job
                                           profiles such as climbers, electricians and call center
                                           operators
                                           economic and social inequalities regarding access or use of
                                           telecommunication services (digital divide)
                                           breaches of network security and information systems,
 social
                                           which can result to access to personal and sensitive data
                                           use of telecommunications services with physical and non-
                                           physical hazards to children
                                           external environmental conditions for business continuity
                                           (e.g. earthquakes, floods)

 environmental                             impact to the environment caused by the company’s
                                           activities (generation of hazardous waste and other
                                           associated materials, consumption of natural resources,
                                           co2 footprint)



b. maintaining compliance
the group has implemented an extensive compliance management system (cms), which ensures
shareholders’ and stakeholders’ interests are protected, as well as compliance of all directors, managers
and employees with the legislation in force, the code of conduct and internal policies, in order to avoid
risks and other legal consequences. telekom albania has adopted this system, which defines employees’
responsibility boundaries and the behavioural rules required to avoid legal implications and potential
conflict of interests. more specifically, we have applied the following policies and codes:
  code of conduct.
  code of conduct for the protection of the individual’s right to privacy in the handling of personal
      data within ote group.
  code of ethics for senior financial officers.



                       g4-14, g4-36, g4-56, g4-dma, g4-so5, g4-so6, g4-so8

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               30

   whistle-blowing policy.
   policy on avoiding sexual harassment within ote group.
   policy on accepting and granting of benefits.
   policy on donations and sponsorships.
   events policy.
   fraud policy.
   policy on insider trading.
   policy on avoiding corruption and other conflicts of interest.
   policy on employee relations within ote group.
   policy on anti–trust law.

deutsche telekom's cms was certified by independent auditors in several group companies (including
telekom albania) in 2013, according to the institute der wirtschaphfen’s (idw) audit standard 980. the
audits were mainly focused on anti-corruption and demonstrated the cms’s effectiveness to identify
corruption risks and prevent violations.

during 2016, telekom albania utilized the risk landscape and the tool provided by dt group
compliance management to conduct a compliance risk assessment, in order to identify and assess
compliance risks with direct or indirect impact to the company. the assessment involved various
employees with different roles within the company, who assessed the various risks and proposed
relevant measures to address them. in december 2016, ote group compliance, enterprise risk and
corporate governance committee and ote audit committee approved the compliance risk assessment
and its measure plan for 2017, which has been sent to dt group compliance management.




√ good practice… compliance, enterprise risks and
corporate governance committee
in order to ensure our effective operation, we have established the compliance, enterprise risks and
corporate governance committee to support the compliance and risk management functions on
compliance, enterprise risk and corporate governance issues. the committee is responsible to:
-    define the strategic issues related to corporate governance, compliance and enterprise risks.
-    review international corporate governance and compliance best practices.
-    determine and monitor the implementation of programs related to compliance management
     (cms), enterprise risk management (rms) and corporate governance systems.
-    ensure the effective internal communication regarding the cms and rms programs’
     implementation.
-    support the compliance officer and enterprise risk management & insurance appointee of
     telekom albania to plan and improve the strategy related to their responsibility, as well as
     coordinate issues related to human rights.
-    support our business units to analyze their procedures, in order to identify any risks and propose a
     measure plan to mitigate relevant risks.
-    assign responsibilities regarding investigations of potential cases of non-compliance, monitor the
     investigations’ implementation and completion and is entitled to recommend appropriate
     measures and sanctions, within the context of the cms program.
-    review the compliance and enterprise risks procedures’ reports and results and assess the
     completeness, correctness and accuracy of the relevant reports submitted to the competent
     corporate bodies for approval.
-    submit briefings/reports to the competent corporate bodies regarding compliance, enterprise risks
     and corporate governance issues.
-    propose measures/procedures/policies to the competent corporate bodies within the areas of its
     responsibilities.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              31

the committee consists of the following members:
-   the enterprise risk management & insurance appointee of telekom albania (chairman of the
    committee), who also participates in any respective committees that may be established in other
    group companies.
-   the legal manager & data privacy officer.
-   the head of internal audit & compliance office.
-   the corporate affairs manager.
-   the chief financial officer.
-   the hr & administration director.




t group good practice… international exchange of expertise
during 2016, telekom albania employees responsible for compliance issues participated in the
international compliance days 12th anniversary, where representatives from dt group companies
gathered and discussed compliance strategies and trends, as well as new approaches to collaboration.



c. contributing to anti-corruption
within the context of our efforts to combat and eradicate corruption, the company implements policies
and practices to effectively prevent and tackle corruption:
  we have communicated our anti-corruption policies and procedures to all employees through our
    corporate intranet.
  all employees have signed the individual “compliance statement” where they confirm to be aware
    and accept all compliance policies.
  we have adopted integrity checks prior to initiate collaboration with new suppliers (see section iii-
    5b).
  we require that bod members and senior financial officers sign individual statement to declare
    that they are informed and comply with the code of ethics for senior financial officers’ provisions,
    which are submitted to the compliance office.
  we require from our employees to sign the conflicts of interest statement, which is aligned with
    the policy on avoiding corruption and other conflicts of interest.
  we organize internal awareness campaigns for our employees regarding anti-corruption. within
    2016, we organized the following campaigns:
        o the compliance guidelines for easter.
        o the compliance guidelines for christmas and new year.
        o the guiding principles campaign.
        o the “whistle-blowing – speak up” campaign.
        o the anti-corruption day campaign on december 9th, were we organized various awareness
            sessions focused on our anti-corruption policies.
  we regularly train employees on anti-corruption, through our e-learning anti-corruption training
    program. the training program addresses employees from various departments and covers topics
    such as avoid corruption and other conflicts of interest, accept and grant benefits and anti-trust
    policy.
  our internal audit and compliance office thoroughly investigate any actual or potential cases of
    corruption, through clearly defined criteria.
  we require sufficient degree of detail in any allegations regarding actual or potential cases of
    corruption, in order to initiate investigation.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  32

                            anti-corruption training program
                                                           2015                  2016
              targeted employees (number)                   225                   124
              employees trained (number)                    185                   110
              participation rate (%)                        82                    89


it must be noted that within 2016, there were:
  no public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying.
  no incidents of corruption.
  no legal actions related or pending legal actions related to corruption and fines or other non-
     monetary sanctions imposed by the respective authorities.



                  we trained 110 employees on anti-corruption
                             issues and procedures


                           we had no incidents of corruption


√ good practice… prohibiting political involvement
telekom albania’s code of conduct firmly dismisses any monetary donation or grant any monetary
value-added benefits to political parties or elected public officials. the company has established
transparent procedures regarding sponsoring of state institutions and bodies, which can verify the
associated marketing effect (e.g. clearly indicating the company as a sponsor). it must be noted that in
2016, no donations were made to politicians, pubic officials and political parties.




t group good practice… preventing and fighting corruption
deutsche telekom group conducts a wide range of internal measures to prevent and fight corruption, as
part of the compliance risk assessment within the context of its compliance management system,
which allows the group to identify and evaluate compliance risks and develop appropriate prevention
measures. the outcome of the assessment process is the group risk map, which is used to conduct
systematic risk analyses and assess particularly significant risks in 27 core risk categories, including
corruption, anti-trust law violations and group code of conduct violations. each subsidiary can add
additional categories specific to their business needs, which involves a definition of the specific risk and
the description of the implemented measures to mitigate this risk.

upon completion of the assessment, the subsidiaries’ managing boards are informed of the respective
results and define the compliance program for the following year, including specific measures and
responsibilities, and pass a formal resolution to approve the program. the group-wide assessment
process was conducted to 79 companies in 2016.

at the same time, deutsche telekom ag is a member of associations and organizations in germany
which deal specifically with compliance-related issues (including corruption), such as the compliance &

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              33

integrity forum of zfw (center for business ethics, dico (german institute for compliance e.v.) and
bitkom (federal association for information technology, telecommunications and new media), in order
to exchange ideas and experiences related to compliance.



d. complying with legislation
we closely monitor the regulatory and legal framework related to our activities, in order to apply its
relevant provisions. it must be noted that within 2016, there were no written notices regarding
compliance issues by respective authorities, while no fines or other non-monetary sanctions were
imposed for non-compliance with laws and regulations.

e. ensuring business continuity
telekom albania recognizes its legal commitments, as well as its responsibility, to maintain stable
growth and ensure a continuous supply of quality telecommunication services. therefore, the company
strives to ensure its business continuity, in order to ensure prompt and efficient recovery of essential
operations from any incident or physical disaster. for this reason, we:
  have established a framework and supporting plans to apply a consistent and systematic method to
     identify threats and incidents, as well as a common process to assess their potential or actual
     impact and the respective persons to inform and manage any adverse situation.
  have developed our business continuity policy.
  have established a business continuity management committee (bcmc) and have created a crisis
     management team, which is responsible for decision-making and management of activities to
     mitigate the adverse effects of crisis events.
  have defined an incident response structure and have informed and properly trained its members
     to their role through various exercises and drills.
  design the appropriate business continuity strategies through regular business impact analyses,
     during which we assess the impact over time of any interruptions to our activities, as well as risk
     assessments, during which we identify, analyze and assess potential threats that could interrupt
     our business activities and apply proper measures to mitigate or eliminate the associated risks.
  have developed business continuity plans with documented priorities, procedures, responsibilities
     and resources.
  have communicated our policies, procedures and activities related to business continuity to all
     employees.
  regularly organize awareness and training sessions, in order to ensure that our employees are
     aware and understand the respective structure and objectives.
  have adopted and implement a business continuity management system (bcms), aligned with the
     iso22301 international standard, which emphasizes the importance to:
         o understand the organization’s and stakeholders’ needs in terms of business continuity.
         o implement and operate the necessary controls and measures to deal with interruptions in
             our operations.
         o implement a systematic approach to manage the business continuity management process.
         o continuously monitor and review the business continuity management system’s
             performance and effectiveness.

within 2016, we:
 organized a crisis management training session, during which employees from deutsche telekom
    emergency & crisis management contributed to develop training materials and facilitated the
    session to 9 directors and incident response team members, including our crisis communication
    team.
 conducted an internal awareness campaign regarding business continuity during dt group’s
    business continuity awareness week with the theme “return on investment”, where we posted
    relevant articles on our intranet and utilized the e-learning course for employees to learn and test
    their knowledge about business continuity.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                34

     implemented refresher trainings to 12 incident directors, building incident controllers and incident
      response team members.
     participated in the international crisis exercise to ensure proper communication, information flow
      and cooperation in crisis situations.
     participated in the group-wide crisis management team alerting exercise, in order to test
      connectivity and ensure that contact details are up to date, where each crisis management team is
      activated through a conference call and feedback is sent to both ote group and dt group situation
      centers.
     implemented evacuation drills in our facilities in lapraka and kashar.


3. corporate responsibility management
a. utilizing appropriate organizational structures
telekom albania has adopted ote group’s definition of corporate responsibility, in order to align its
business operations with our stakeholders’ needs and facilitate a homogeneous understanding by its
employees, as well as create value for all our stakeholders.



                    corporate responsibility for ote group
     “corporate responsibility is the commitment of the company to contribute to
       global sustainable development, by taking economic, ecological and social
         objectives into consideration in our decision-making processes, to take
      responsibility for the impact of our organization’s activities, by working and
    communicating with internal and external stakeholders, while at the same time
                    improving the competitiveness of the company”.


          deutsche telekom corporate responsibility mission
                     “we take responsibility. we enable sustainability…
                                    …in our processes
                               …with and for our employees
                                   …for our customers
                                      …in society”.


      deutsche telekom corporate responsibility action areas
-     connected life and work – enabling a sustainable lifestyle
-     connecting the unconnected
-     low-carbon society



# benchmarks… corporate responsibility commitment
telekom albania is the best company within deutsche telekom group, both for satisfaction of
employees with corporate responsibility commitment and identification of employees with corporate
responsibility commitment with 97% and 90% respectively in 2015 (averages for dt group were 78% for
both indicators, with no similar survey conducted in 2016).



                                    g4-36, g4-43, g4-45, g4-56

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               35


the company has established suitable organizational structures to manage corporate responsibility at a
strategic, organizational and operational level. the same structure is also used for data collection, in
order to report our performance to shareholders.



                          managing corporate responsibility




   the overall responsible for corporate responsibility issues is the chief executive officer, who seeks
    the respective input from the bod, as part of the annual review of strategic objectives.
   the manager of corporate affairs reports directly to the ceo and is responsible to develop and
    implement the company’s corporate responsibility strategy, as well as cooperate with the ceo on
    corporate responsibility strategy issues and initiatives and with the interdepartmental committees
    to ensure proper implementation of related programs. the corporate affairs office cooperates
    with deutsche telekom corporate responsibility managers networks and other dt group relevant
    structures, in order to share experience, practices and targets related to the corporate
    responsibility program.
   the head of corporate responsibility unit is responsible to support the corporate responsibility
    strategy’s implementation, coordinate and manage corporate responsibility activities throughout
    the company, collect and process the respective data, monitor the implementation of related
    measures and targets and communicate the company’s corporate responsibility performance to
    external and internal stakeholders.
   at the same time, we have established interdepartmental committees and teams to facilitate
    proper implementation of issues related to quality, health and safety and environment, which are
    incorporated into our integrated management system (ims) and overseen by the management
    systems’ steering committee, as well as issues related to business continuity, which are overseen
    by the business continuity management committee.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             36

   furthermore, we have created various interdepartmental teams to ensure application of our
    policies and coordinate the operational activities among our company, which include:
       o the quality management (qm) team, which is responsible to ensure operational aspects
            related to quality requirements.
       o the health and safety (h&s) team, which is responsible to ensure operational aspects
            related to employee health and safety.
       o the environmental management system (ems) team, which is responsible to ensure
            operational aspects related to environmental protection.
       o the business continuity management (bcm) team, which is responsible to plan and
            implement operational continuity pans, in order to protect the company from unexpected
            events. it must be noted the corporate affairs office employs a dedicated bcm specialist to
            deal with bcm issues.
       o the incident response (ir) team, which is responsible to respond and handle emergency
            situations at company premises.
       o the crisis communication (cc) team, which is responsible for public, media and internal
            communication in case of a crisis.




t group good practice… corporate responsibility within
deutsche telekom group
deutsche telekom has established an integrated structure to closely link strategic management and
operational implementation of its corporate responsibility strategy throughout the group:
-   deutsche telekom board of management is the overall responsible for all corporate responsibility
    issues.
-   the corporate responsibility unit reports to the chief human resources officer and is responsible
    to further develop the corporate culture related to corporate responsibility, with a focus on
    sustainable innovation and social responsibility.
-   the corporate responsibility controlling department is responsible to control the group’s
    corporate responsibility activities, through an it-based data collection system, which enables
    group-wide benchmarks and supports standardized and mandatory processes, both at group and
    national level.
-   the hr leadership team is an advisory and decision-making body of the human resources board
    department, which decides upon group-wide policies and guidelines, corporate responsibility
    positioning and the corporate responsibility department’s strategic focus.
-   the corporate responsibility managers from the different business units and national companies
    are responsible to implement the group’s corporate responsibility strategy. they collaborate
    closely within the international corporate responsibility manager network, which features regular
    face-to-face and online meetings or webinar conferences since 2008, in order to coordinate their
    activities, exchange experiences and share practices implemented in other group companies, as
    well as review the status of corporate responsibility strategy and related kpis. it must be noted
    that during the 2016 corporate responsibility manager meeting under the motto “achieve more
    together”, participants also discussed the key issues of joint crisis management and handling
    environmental impacts, as well as the un’s sustainable development goals and the group’s
    contribution towards their implementation.



b. operating based on management systems
in 2012, telekom albania became the first company in the telecommunications market in albania to
hold a triple iso certification for its integrated management system (ims) on quality, environment and

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                           37

occupational health & safety. all three certifications, based on iso9001 for quality, iso14001 for
environment and ohsas18001 for occupational health & safety, were issued after an audit performed
by tüv hellas (tüv nord). within 2015, the company was re-certified for its quality management
system, occupational health and safety management system and environment management system
for its business operations, in order to respond to long-term challenges.

during 2016:
 we created our ims policy.
 we conducted ims audit in our shops.
 we integrated kpis related to our ims’s operation.
 the external audit regarding the operation of management systems resulted only in proposals to
    improve our environment and health and safety performance.




                     we had no non-conformities from audits
                     regarding the operation of management
                                     systems


4. stakeholder engagement and materiality analysis
a. focusing on five main areas to operate responsibly
our company transforms its commitment to operate responsibly into action and focuses on the
following five main areas, in order to respond to our stakeholders’ long-term needs and expectations.

strategy & management
our objective is to incorporate responsibility into our business operations and daily management
activities, as well as create measurable and tangible results to create value for our stakeholders.

customers & suppliers
our objective is to develop products and services which are safe and correspond to the needs of our
customers, as well as facilitate the responsible operation of the markets where we conduct our
business.



                    g4-18, g4-19, g4-24, g4-25, g4-26, g4-27, g4-48, g4-dma

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  38


society
our objective is to combine our business success, with prosperity and quality of life, for citizens in local
communities we conduct our business in.

employees
our objective is to create a work environment, which ensures long-term career opportunities and
facilitates our employees’ development.

environment
our objective is to successfully manage our direct and indirect environmental impact, as well as raise
our fellow citizens’ awareness to act more responsibly regarding environmental protection.

these areas compose our corporate responsibility framework, which is used by our company to
manage systematically all respective subjects linked to our business operation and formulate concrete
strategic objectives.



                         corporate responsibility framework




b. identifying material aspects
as a result of a materiality analysis, the company focuses on material aspects in each of the above
areas. in order to identify them, telekom albania reviewed potential aspects, based on the sector’s
regulatory environment, current conditions and practices worldwide, as well as future trends. in total,
we reviewed over 90 aspects, which were prioritized afterwards according to:
  the level of impact on the company, were we examined the economic, environmental and social
    impacts of our activities, products and operations.
  our stakeholders’ expectations, where we identified key requirements of our stakeholders related
    to corporate responsibility issues. although, at the moment, we do not conduct a full-scope
    stakeholder engagement survey on corporate responsibility issues, we utilize relevant input from
    various surveys (such as the quarterly social responsibility surveys), as well as indirect input from
    the company’s departments which interact with each stakeholder group.

the materiality analysis was approved by the corporate responsibility unit within the corporate affairs
department and has been including in the present corporate responsibility repost, which was approved

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               39

by the chief executive officer. through the analysis, we have identified the following material aspects
for 2016 (all aspects that were not deemed material are not mentioned in detail):



                  corporate responsibility materiality analysis




c. interacting with our stakeholders
we define stakeholders as anyone who directly or indirectly influences or is influenced by our activities
and operations. as these groups require not only transparency but also active involvement of companies
in issues related to society development and environmental protection, we systematically identify our
stakeholders’ expectations and questions, in order to effectively respond to them.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                40



                                   stakeholder categories




the following table describes our stakeholder groups, methods we apply to have a dialogue with them
and their frequency, main issues of concern related to corporate responsibility, as well as the respective
sections in this report, where our related programs and answers to these issues of concern can be
found. the corporate affairs office is responsible to coordinate the interaction between telekom
albania and its stakeholders on issues related to corporate responsibility, which is a process that
actively involves the entire company, as it is conducted throughout the year, without distinct activities
taking place as part of the report preparation process:

            corporate responsibility report 2016                                                           41

                                          stakeholder engagement
                         methods of interaction through
                            continuous and ongoing
    stakeholder                                               main issues of interest         section in this report
                          activities (unless indicated
                                   otherwise)
customers                 sales network (semi-annually        data security &            customers & suppliers: iii-
(retail and business)      regional conferences)                customer privacy           1b,2a-c,3a-c,4a-c,5d
                          customer service center             product quality            environment: vi-4a,4b
                          customer satisfaction survey        customer satisfaction
                           (quarterly)                         anti-competitive
                          tracking studies for retail          behaviour
                           customers (quarterly)               internet safety
                          tracking studies for business       emf
                           customers (quarterly)               responsible
                          call centers                         communication & sales
                          social media                        access to content
                          website                             product affordability
                                                               customer relations
                                                               sar
                                                               customer awareness
                                                               products & services
                                                                labelling
sales network             customer satisfaction survey        product quality            customers & suppliers: iii-2a-
                           (quarterly)                         customer satisfaction      c,3a-c,4c,5d
                          information systems                 products & services
                          verbal communication                 compliance
                          interaction                         responsible
                                                                communication & sales
                                                               products & services
                                                                labelling
suppliers                 procurement activities              supplier assessment for    customers & suppliers: iii-5a-
                          contracts                            labour practices           d
                          meetings                            supplier environmental
                          corporate announcements              assessment
                          press releases                      local buying
                          supplier performance evaluation     responsible buying
                           (annually)                          operational support
                                                               supplier human rights
                                                                assessment
                                                               sar
employees                 pulse surveys (semi-annually)       health & safety of field   employees: v-
                          trainings                            employees                  1b,2a,2b,3a,3b,4a-c,5a-c
                          performance appraisal (annually)    equality & fairness        environment: vi-5f
                          informative publications            job security
                          events                              labour practices
                          meetings                             grievances
                          volunteer activities                local employability
                          website                             training &
                          intranet                             development
                          e-mails                             field work conditions
                                                               employee engagement
                                                               forced labour

           corporate responsibility report 2016                                                           42

                                                                office health & safety
                                                                office work conditions
                                                                human rights
                                                                 grievances
                                                                environmental training
                                                                 & awareness
government &               consultations on regulatory         data security &          customers & suppliers: iii-
authorities (e.g. akep)     framework                            customer privacy         1b,2a-c,4a-c,5d
                           formal communication                anti-competitive         environment vi-4a
                           business meetings and reports        behaviour                society: iv-1a,2b
                           cooperative projects                products & services      strategy & management: ii-1a-
                           dialogue with representatives at     compliance               c,2a-e
                            local and national level            internet safety          introduction: i-4b
                                                                emf
                                                                responsible
                                                                 communication & sales
                                                                digital divide
                                                                corporate governance
                                                                risk & compliance
                                                                business continuity
                                                                anti-corruption
                                                                legal compliance
                                                                public policy
                                                                network infrastructure
                                                                 & investment
                                                                economic transparency
associations               participation in associations       data security &          customers & suppliers: iii-2a-
                           meetings                             customer privacy         c,4a-c
                           formal communication                responsible              society: iv-2b
                                                                 communication & sales    strategy & management: ii-2c
                                                                digital divide
                                                                anti-corruption
local                      dialogue with local                 social products &        society: iv-3a,3b,4a,4b,4d
communities                 representatives                      services                 employees: v-1b
                           visits                              emf                      environment: vi-
                           local events, festivals and         community impact         1c,2f,3a,3c,3d,4a,4b,5a,5b,5e
                            projects                            hazardous waste
                           meetings                            donations & sponsoring
                                                                investment impacts
                                                                local employability
                                                                co2 emissions
                                                                waste handling
                                                                environmental
                                                                 compliance
                                                                environmental
                                                                 grievances
                                                                acoustic impact
                                                                visual impact
                                                                society grievances
                                                                air emissions (odp)
citizens                   social responsibility surveys       data security &          customers & suppliers: iii-4a-c
                            (quarterly)                          customer privacy         society: iv-2b,3a,3b

        corporate responsibility report 2016                                                          43

                        website                            social products &        environment: vi-2a-d,2f,3a-c
                        social media                        services                 introduction: i-4b
                                                            internet safety
                                                            digital divide
                                                            energy use
                                                            material consumption
                                                            co2 emissions
                                                            network infrastructure
                                                             & investment
non-governmental        meetings                           data security &          customers & suppliers: iii-4a-
organizations (ngos) /  collaborations                      customer privacy         c,5d
not-for-profit                                              equality & fairness      society: iv-2b,4d
organizations (npos)                                        internet safety          employees: v-3a,3b
                                                            emf                      environment: vi-1c,2a-
                                                            digital divide           d,3a,3c,3d,4a,4b,5c,5d
                                                            sar
                                                            labour practices
                                                             grievances
                                                            hazardous waste
                                                            energy use
                                                            waste handling
                                                            environmental
                                                             compliance
                                                            environmental
                                                             grievances
                                                            water consumption
                                                            biodiversity & land
                                                            society grievances
                                                            human rights
                                                             grievances
media                   corporate announcements           all above                  strategy & management: ii-1-2
                        press conferences                                            customers & suppliers: iii-1-5
                        press releases                                               society: iv-1-4
                        informative publications                                     employees: v-1-5
                        meetings                                                     environment: vi-1-5
                        website
                        information upon request
shareholders            general shareholders assembly     all above                  strategy & management: ii-1-2
                        meetings                                                     customers & suppliers: iii-1-5
                        financial reports                                            society: iv-1-4
                        adoption and utilization of                                  employees: v-1-5
                         policies and principles                                      environment: vi-1-5



        d. focusing on quantitative results
        telekom albania strives to include quantitative indicators and targets in its report, in order to be
        transparent to its stakeholders. as a result, in the last years we have gradually included more
        quantitative indicators (both general and gri-related) and targets in our report.

      corporate responsibility report 2016                                            44




                        we quadrupled the number of gri indicators
                           and increased by 12.2% the number of
                        quantitative indicators we make reference to
                                      within the report


      5. achievements 2016 and targets 2017
          we said                   progress              we will                     by
integrate quality, occupational       25%      integrate the supporting structures    2017
health & safety and environment                and management programs related
management systems.                            to the quality, occupational health
                                               & safety and environment
                                               management systems.
                                               integrate the internal audit plan.     2017
                                               integrate the ims processes and
                                               procedures.
conduct a customer or public          75%      conduct a customer or public-          2017
based survey on corporate                      based survey on corporate
responsibility topics.                         responsibility topics, based on best
                                               practices of dt group.
successfully certify our bcm          75%      implement two awareness sessions       2017
system by an independent auditor,              related to business continuity.
in order to comply with the
iso22301 standard.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                        45

                                       organize one wide rehearsal, two     2017
                                       evacuation drills and one dt group
                                       international crisis exercise, in
                                       order to test our business
                                       continuity plans and strategies.
                                       ensure that appropriate parties      2017
                                       have received updated business
                                       continuity documentation.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                     46

            iiι. our customers & suppliers

   positively influence the markets we operate

   introduction and summary

our size:
1.8 million customers
99.8% population coverage
95% complaints resolved within 5 days
120 suppliers
20% spending on local suppliers

our objective:
to develop products and services which are safe and correspond to the needs of
our customers, as well as facilitate the responsible operation of the markets
where we conduct our business.


our achievements:
- our customer satisfaction index increased by 4.6% in q4’16, compared to base
  results.
- our quality index for customer care services from main contact points
  increased by 31.5% in q4’16, compared to base results.
- we reduced our data drop rate on both 4g and 4g+ by 19%.
- the number of received complaints decreased by 32.9%.
- we increased the percentage of complaints resolved within 5 days to 93%.
- we had no incidents regarding customer privacy issues or loss of personal
  data.
- we successfully blocked 1,803,860 internet security threats and urls.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             47


1. responsible competition
a. operating within the regulatory framework
the electronic and postal communications authority (akep) is the regulatory authority regarding
electronic communications and postal service, which supervises the regulatory framework in the
respective areas (as defined by law) and the development policies (as defined by the council of
ministers).

since telekom albania is designated as a significant market power (smp) in the wholesale markets, the
company follows akep’s respective regulatory obligations, which can be summarized below. these
obligations often have a substantial impact on its activities and operations, such as the obligation of
price control (setting a national mobile and fixed termination rate and sms termination rate), which
directly affects the wholesale interconnection prices in traffic measurements between telekom albania
and other mobile and fixed operators.

                          regulatory obligations per market
            markets                  smp undertaking                 regulatory obligations
retail mobile market (residential                                 non-discrimination on-net/off net
                                       telekom albania
and non-residential)                                               (minutes and rates)
                                                                  non-discrimination
                                                                  transparency (no obligation for
wholesale fixed termination            telekom albania             publication of research ideas and
market                                  (telekom fix)              outcomes – rio)
                                                                  access and interconnection
                                                                  price control
                                                                  non-discrimination
                                                                  transparency (rio publication)
wholesale mobile call
                                       telekom albania            cost orientation
termination market
                                                                  access and interconnection
                                                                  price control
                                                                  non-discrimination
                                                                  transparency (no obligation for rio
wholesale mobile sms
                                       telekom albania             publication for sms)
termination market
                                                                  access and interconnection
                                                                  price control


within 2016:
 telekom albania filed an administrative complaint against decision no. 2664/14.01.2016 on
    “monitoring of non-discriminations effects between on-net/off net rates and the suspension of
    mobile termination rates (mtr) symmetry”, which was rejected by akep and retained the above
    mentioned decision into force. in may 2016, the company filed the decision no. 2664/14.01.2016
    to the administrative court of 1st instance and requested the decision’s invalidity, which was
    accepted by the administrative court on september 2016.
 in september 2016, the administrative court of appeal accepted the recourse of plus against
    decision no. 2542/13.03.2016 on mobile market analysis and partially abrogated decision no.
    2542/13.03.2016 on the application of mobile termination rate of 6.52 lek/min to plus network
    instead of 1.48 lek/min, as defined by akep.
 there were no fines or other non-monetary sanctions imposed by akep.




                                        g4-dma, g4-so7

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                            48

b. abiding by fair competition rules
we recognize the importance of fair competition, since it promotes efficiency, economic development
and innovation. within this context, we:
  comply with national legislation and regulation in the albanian telecommunication market, as
     outlined mainly in law no. 9121/28.07.2003 “on competition”, which aims to protect free and fair
     competition, as well as the respective presidential decrees, ministerial decisions and decisions
     from independent administrative authorities, such as the albanian competition authority (caa).
  comply with the specific regulation related to issues, such as licensing, tariffs, local loop
     unbundling, interconnection, leased lines and universal service, as well the law no.
     9918/19.05.2008 “for electronic communication in the republic of albania”, which regulates the
     company’s activities.
  conform to the principles of fair competition for all our operations.
  support fair dealing with our business partners and competitors.
  do not engage in price fixing or illegal attempts to gain market influence.
  do not disseminate false information about our competitors’ products or services.
  do not utilize unfair means to gain a competitive advantage.
  do not use industrial espionage to obtain information about market competitors.
  do not unnecessarily communicate information from and about the company to any third parties.
  our legal office and the respective departments are frequently updated with the changes in the
     relevant regulations and legal provisions.

within 2016, there were:
 no complaints for anti-competitive behaviour on behalf of telekom albania.
 no investigations or legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour or anti-trust practices.
 no relevant fines or other non-monetary sanctions imposed by the respective authorities.


2. responsible marketing
a. applying responsible marketing practices
our communication material is legal, appropriate, fair, sincere, corresponds to reality and respects
peoples’ diversity, in terms of age, gender, race, religion and physical or mental status. within this
context:
  we comply with the contractual obligations as defined by the law for consumer protection
    regarding communication and marketing activities.
  our marketing department reviews all advertising messages and campaigns, before launching them
    to the public, in order to ensure proper implementation.
  we do not sell or provide any products and services which are either banned or disputed in foreign
    markets.




√ good practice… responsible communication
according to our code of conduct, we keep in mind the long-term impact of customers to our
operations. therefore, we are committed to ensure that communication and interaction with our
customers adheres to the respective regulations and ethical standards. therefore, we only call our
customers for promotional reasons during hours permitted by law and we don’t recommend any
products or services that our customers do not need.


in 2016, there were:
  no cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing,
     advertising, promotion, product and service information and labeling.
  no cases of campaigns being withdrawn (after their initial release).



                                g4-dma, g4-pr4, g4-pr6, g4-pr7

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              49

   no investigations or legal actions for non-compliance concerning marketing, advertising,
    promotion, product and service information and labeling.
   no relevant fines or other non-monetary sanctions were imposed by respective authorities.

b. providing information for our services
we communicate with clarity and transparency on our services, pricing policies and charges, as well as
contractual conditions. within this context, we publish information and documents on our website
regarding:
  partner shops application form.
  reference interconnection offer.
  general conditions of subscribers’ contract.
  service level agreement.
  indicator of mobile service quality.
  indicator of fix service quality.
  sms termination tariffs.
  sms termination decision.




c. ensuring transparent pricing practices and affordability of our services
we strive to offer reduced prices or discounts to contribute in our own way to the difficult financial
condition many of our fellow citizens face due to the current economic environment. at the same time,
we proactively review handset prices to provide the most competitive options in the market, as well as
provide a variety of bundles/offers to our subscribers, in order to meet their demands and needs, taking
into account market trends, dynamics and competition. for example, some of the practices are
mentioned below:

development of roaming services: telekom albania has established agreements with 380 operators
worldwide and the company’s post-paid and pre-paid customers can use the roaming services in 142
countries worldwide, through 371 networks. at the same time, gprs service is available through 213
networks in 102 countries.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                50

cost control: our bill shock prevention service while roaming notifies the post-paid subscriber through a
sms in case the data usage threshold while roaming has been reached. at the same time, the subscriber
is redirected to a page in order to select the appropriate option. furthermore, pre-paid subscribers can
check their balance, last call and expiry period via ivr/ussd and post-paid subscribers can check their
actual monthly consumption via sms/ussd.

one family: we offered 20% discount to both pre-paid and post-paid family members in their pre-paid
bundles or their programs’ monthly fees.

data usage: we launched data add-ons for 2gb and 4gb at very low prices.

promotional campaigns: we launched various promotional campaigns for specific events such as the st.
valentine offer (1 gb free internet for st. valentine with each pre-paid bundle activation), the fc bayern
münchen campaign, roaming bundles for euro 2016 football championship and specific bundles for
france, as well as our xmas campaign, with 12 months extra benefits to all customers that activate a
bundle.

free internet: we offered free internet for one year to all pre-paid and post-paid subscribers who
visited our shops and purchased a smartphone. in december 2016, they received 1 gb free internet and,
over the next year, they will receive 1 gb for each month by recharging their number with at least 500
lek per month.


3. customer satisfaction
a. aiming for customer satisfaction
our “moments that connect us” slogan stands out for what our customers mean to us. therefore, we
consider our customers’ satisfaction a strategic growth element and focus our efforts on three main
categories:
  continuously update our technology offering and network.
  provide innovative and effective solutions.
  offer the best customer experience through our employees.

indicatively, within 2016, we:
  implemented over 140 offers/campaigns.
  modernized our hlr (home location register) infrastructure.
  mitigated all subscribers to a new subscriber data management platform, instead of the older hlr
     platform.




√ good practice… customer experience
customer experience refers to the interactions between a customer and an organization throughout
their business relationship. we recognize its importance and impact on customer satisfaction and loyalty
and introduced the customer journey concept during 2016, in order to find areas for improvement
throughout all customers’ phases/steps during a product’s or service’s lifecycle and, ultimately, improve
our performance. within this context, we:
-    defined new products with mandatory customer journey requirements.
-    initiated the pilot phase of customer journey.
-    introduced customer journey as part of the product development stage.
-    conducted customer journey exercises for existing services and tools (namely ivr, internet, new
     activation and business roaming).

at the same time, we aim to diffuse customer experience education and engagement throughout
telekom albania, though a series of initiatives to improve customer satisfaction and ensure that our


                                             g4-pr5

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              51

employees have the proper knowledge and right skills to deliver the telekom experience. within this
context, we:
-   included customer experience in our induction training and other training programs.
-   conducted specific trainings focused on customer experience (e.g. products and services, front
    office).
-   participated in a job fair to promote telekom albania as best employer to attract customer
    experience-oriented people (see section v-1b).
-   introduced initiatives to recognize and appraise customer focus (e.g. social wall, best touchpoint).
-   implemented an internal awareness campaign on customer experience to our employees, featuring
    25 classroom sessions to 380 employees, as well as 20 sessions of call center hearing to 150
    employees and 10 sessions of shop visits to 100 employees. following the respective sessions,
    approximately 80% of participants stated that the concept of customer experience is clearer to
    them and 65% is more informed on how to improve customer experience in their daily work.
-   implemented the second edition of our christmas helper initiative, during which we trained 67
    employees who visited 7 shops, in order to provide the best customer experience during the
    holiday season. at the end of the holiday period, we organized a get-together event at @telekom
    community store, where we awarded the initiative’s winners and enable participants to share their
    suggestions and impressions.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               52




√ good practice… corporate website
we provide a wide a range of services to our customers via our corporate website, which includes:
-   a fully functional e-care/e-shop online portal aligned with dt standards and functional blueprint,
    where customers can purchase their products and either pay with credit/debit card or on delivery,
    with all items being delivered within 48 hours, as well as purchase a mobile device with a bundle.
-   a pre-paid etop-up service, where customers can use a credit/debit card to remotely add an
    amount to any pre-paid account.
-   frequently asked questions and customer support areas, where we inform our customers about
    related issues, such as shop location and automatic internet settings.
-   the my account (llogaria ime) log-in area, where customers can register and receive real-time
    information (e.g. remaining credit, credit expiry date, puk code retrieval), activate or deactivate
    services and purchase bundles.
-   electronic bill and e-payment, which includes the last bill’s due amount, the undue amount and
    traffic information, which customers can use a credit/debit card to pay their bill.


we seek to cultivate a reciprocal, sincere and trustful relationship with our customers, in order to be
their preferred choice. for this reason, we closely monitor our performance regarding customer
satisfaction, through a series of surveys, which include:
  an annual qualitative and quantitative survey to analyze our company’s and brands’ strengths, both
     in both in absolute terms and compared with our competitors.
  the quarterly quantitative tri*m survey on a representative random sample of the albanian
     population to measure their perception about the image of mobile operators, including our own.
  the quarterly quantitative ng icca (next generation international customer contact analysis)
     research to monitor the quality of the customer care services as experienced by our customers and
     assess their experience from specific touchpoints (namely retail, call center and ivr).

during 2016, we managed to continuously improve our performance related to customer satisfaction in
the retail channel and our call center and we achieved a leading position for call center services within
dt group. the improved icca results can be attributed to the following initiatives:
  analysis of customer feedback and call back activities.
  restart of ivr channel monitoring and adjustment of contribution weight.
  sales incentive related to icca performance.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                            53




                                  customer satisfaction
                                                   q4’15*       q1’16       q2’16      q3’16   q4’16
tri*m survey results
      telekom albania tri*m survey results for
                                                     100         100            98.8   98.8    104.6
                  residential customers (index)
   average competitor tri*m survey results for
                                                     100        102.5           100    106.2   103.7
                  residential customers (index)
telekom albania ng icca results (index)              100         113        128.3      132.6   131.5
                         *q4’15 results have been used as base results (100).



                 our customer satisfaction index increased by
                   4.6% in q4’16, compared to base results


                 our quality index for customer care services
               from main contact points increased by 31.5% in
                      q4’16, compared to base results

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 54


√ good practice… sms survey
following the respective practice from dt group, since 2012 we conduct a customer satisfaction survey
via sms, in order to measure customer satisfaction from three main contact points (call center, self-
service and shops). every day, randomly selected subscribers receive an sms and can reply free-of-
charge using a scale of 1 to 5 (1 being the lowest, 5 being the highest) to evaluate the quality of service
in one of these contact points.

we utilize survey results to assess the level of service, in order to continuously monitor service quality,
analyse customers’ needs and identify areas for improvement. within 2016, we sent sms invitations to
165,088 subscribers to participate in the survey for the above main contact points, compared to 150,689
in 2015.



b. ensuring service reliability
an important parameter of customer satisfaction is our ability to offer reliable and uninterrupted
services, which we consider one of our main obligations. as a result of our efforts, we were ranked as
the country’s “best in test” operator for our mobile network during the p3 performance test, an
independent benchmarking assessment regarding quality of mobile networks and offered services.
telekom albania was the only operator with overall improvements compared to 2015 and the
company’s achieved and certified by p3 score points demonstrated:
  the great improvements related to data service in urban areas due to lte deployment.
  the best web browsing experience among all operators in metropolitan areas.
  the high video youtube performance, especially in urban areas.
  the highest download speed rate offered.

additionally, within 2016, we replaced 81% of total old mw links (microwave links) with new ip mw
links.



                                         network reliability
                                                               2015        2016
                        network availability
                                                    2g (%)     99.86       99.77
                                                    3g (%)     99.89       99.92
                                                    4g (%)     99.98       99.98
                                                   4g+ (%)      nr          nr
                        call success rate
                                                    2g (%)     99.88       99.84
                                                    3g (%)     99.46       99.44
                                                    4g (%)     99.01       99.83
                                                   4g+ (%)     99.01       99.83
                        drop call rate
                                                    2g (%)      0.97       0.82
                                                    3g (%)      0.33       0.34
                        data drop rate
                                                    4g (%)      0.21       0.17
                                                   4g+ (%)      0.21       0.17
                                            nr: not reported

   corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                           55

                      we reduced our data drop rate on both 4g and
                                      4g+ by 19%

   c. monitoring our performance
   we have established mechanisms to communicate and receive comments and complaints, in order to
   effectively serve our customers, which include:
     written communication to our offices or to telekom albania help desk.
     the e-mail address complaints@telekom.com.al.
     our call centers (139 for pre-paid customers, 144 for post-paid customers and 142 for both pre-
        paid and post-paid customers).
     personal contact at the company’s points of sale.

   within 2016:
    we received 5,671 complaints, compared to 8,452 in 2015, without any of them resulting in a fine
       or other non-monetary sanction.
    approximately 93% of complaints received were resolved within 5 days, compared to 74.4% in
       2015.
    the average time to resolve complaints was 2.2 days, compared to 2.7 days in 2015.
    the number of valid complaints received was 1,601.

   in the case of delays, we inform the customer for the reasons of delay and the excepted time to resolve
   his/her complaint.

                                               customer service
                                                                                    2015                 2016
      received by e-mail
                                              complaints (number)                  3,353                 3,925
                       complaints resolved within 5 days (number)                  2,836                 3,812
                                     average days to resolve (days)                 3.8                   1.2
      received in written
                                              complaints (number)                  1,285                 1,428
                       complaints resolved within 5 days (number)                   956                  1,165
                                     average days to resolve (days)                 3.1                   2.6
      received by call center
                                              complaints (number)                  3,814                  318
                       complaints resolved within 5 days (number)                  3,700                  302
                                     average days to resolve (days)                 1.3                   2.5
      complaints category
                                     product and services (number)                   nr                  1,818
                           cost of products and services* (number)                   nr                  1,778
                               policies and procedures** (number)                    nr                  2,001
                        product and service reliability*** (number)                  nr                   74
*includes billing and charging complaints, i.e. tariffs charging (voice, messages, national and international) and roaming
                                                          charging.
                       **includes contract claims, bad debt notification and payment clarification.
***includes technical issues, such as network coverage (gsm, 3g and 4g), as well as internet service speed and status.
                                                      nr: not reported

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              56




                 the number of received complaints decreased
                                  by 32.9%


                   we increased the percentage of complaints
                         resolved within 5 days to 93%


4. data and internet security
a. protecting personal data
security of personal data and communication content is not only an important commercial issue, but
also a legal and ethical obligation. therefore, we:
  have adopted the same definition for data privacy and collaborate with other dt group companies
     to guarantee a high level of data security.
  comply with national legal requirements concerning personal data security and the dt group data
     protection principles.
  have established the information security steering committee, which is responsible to provide
     management direction and guidance for the company’s information security efforts, in order to
     ensure that they are appropriately prioritized, funded and supported by the involved organizational
     units, as well as address realistic business needs. the committee consists of:
         o the chief executive officer, as the committee’s chairman.
         o the chief financial officer.
         o the chief commercial consumer officer.
         o the it &technical director.
         o the hr & administrative director.


                          g4-15, g4-56, g4-dma, g4-pr2, g4-pr8, g4-pr9

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              57

        o the information security senior specialist.
   have developed the general security policy, which is part of the dt group security policies
    harmonisation project, in order to have data security and privacy systems compliant with the
    requirements of iso 27001 and iso 27002.
   have adopted and introduced the dt group binding corporate rules privacy policy.
   have reviewed and modified (where necessary) all internal policies on information security,
    according to the new information security regulation introduced by akep in 2015.
   utilize suitable and appropriate organizational and technical means and infrastructures.
   have developed the information security annex with the set of rules and technical requirements
    that vendors or third parties should accept and implement on the new technical implementations,
    in order to ensure that they accept, implement and correctly follow our security requirements.
   implement privacy and security assessments for every new technical implementation within our
    technical infrastructure on all the security requirements that should be implemented.
   perform semi-annual security audits of our data security management system, with no cases of
    non-compliance identified during these audits in 2016.
   handle and perform various audits related to information security, such as the it network security
    outer border audit, a dt group-wide audit to assess the level of it network security, as well as the
    users access reconciliation audit, in order to ensure that systems’ user access process is correctly
    managed.
   have included a dedicated privacy awareness section in our induction program.
   require personal consent to collect, process and use any personal data only for their designated
    purpose.
   inform our employees on information security and data privacy, through information security
    awareness sessions we organize every year. within 2016, we organized 21 respective sessions in 12
    departments.
   have introduced technical solutions for system and network devices security and security
    vulnerabilities scanning, as well as protect the users’ e-mail from spam mails and other internet
    malwares that are delivered via e-mail.

            deutsche telekom group data protection principles

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               58


    policy… protection of personal rights on handling
personal data
the binding corporate rules privacy policy has been adopted on a legally binding basis from all group
companies (including telekom albania) regarding processing of personal data by all dt group
companies. every other organizational policy and procedure is developed to comply with this policy,
which applies to all types of personal data, regardless of where they are collected:

the policy ensures data privacy throughout the dt group, as it describes the measures taken to manage
and share personal data, respected individuals’ rights and manage liability group-wide, through its
provisions in the following issues:
-   transparency of data processing: duty to inform, content and form of information, availability of
    information.
-   conditions of admissibility for the use of personal data: admissibility of personal data use,
    consent by the data subject, automated individual decisions, use of personal data for direct
    marketing purposes, special categories of personal data, data minimization, data avoidance,
    anonymization and aliasing, prohibition of tying-in.
-   transfer of personal data: nature and purpose of transfer of personal data, transmission of data,
    commissioned data processing.
-   data quality and data security: data quality, technical and organizational measures for data
    quality.
-   rights of data subjects: right to information, right of protest, right to have data erased or blocked
    and right to correction, right to clarification, comments and remediation, right to question and
    complain, exercising of rights of data subjects, hard copy of the binding corporate rules privacy.
-   data privacy organization: responsibility for data processing, data privacy officer, group data
    privacy officer, duty to inform in case of infringements, review of the level of data privacy,
    employee commitment and training, cooperation with supervisory authorities, responsible
    contacts for queries.




t group good practice… online data protection survey
dt group implements the annual employee online awareness survey to identify security vulnerabilities
and provide feedback on the awareness measures’ effectiveness in three main categories:
-   use of tolls when working with personal data.
-   data privacy training.
-   data privacy process.

based on the 2016 survey results, telekom albania was ranked on the 4th place of the dt group ranking
table, out of the 68 participant dt group business units.




√ good practice… engaging in information security
protection
telekom albania organized an information security protection event at the premises of @telekom
community store in the former blloku area, in cooperation with experts from the national agency for
computer security, in order to inform participants regarding the necessary information security
approach in various sectors, as well as share their approach and ideas with the innovators community

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 59

regarding information security. participants also had the opportunity to visit the shop @telekom
community store and learn about the latest technological solutions and applications.


in 2016, there were:
  no complaints or cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes regarding privacy
     issues or loss of personal data.
  no incidents or legal actions for non-compliance related to personal data protection.
  no relevant fines or other non-monetary sanctions were imposed by respective authorities.



                we had no incidents regarding customer privacy
                        issues or loss of personal data

b. upholding internet security
as the issue of internet and information security is one of our top priorities, we have included respective
advices and practices on our website to inform our subscribers and the general public regarding:
  e-mail and security.
  safety for children.
  how to navigate safely online.
  what can you do to protect your personal computer.
  what can you do to secure your mobile device.
  important questions about storing personal data.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                60

                    we successfully blocked 1,803,860 internet
                            security threats and urls

c. protecting minors
we believe that parents should be properly informed about mobile telephony features and functions,
such as access to services, voice calls, sms, sending and receiving photographs and videos, as well as
internet access, in order to promptly decide what services their children are permitted to have access
to. for this purpose, we:
  comply with the contractual obligations as defined by the national legislation regarding provision of
     services to minors.
  have voluntarily signed and comply with the national code of conduct “on the safe and
     responsible use of electronic communication networks”, which outlines the principles to protect
     children and the general public from the risks associated with internet access.
  participate in the ceo coalition to make internet a safer place for children and young people, as a
     member of the dt group, along with other companies which are committed to support safer
     navigation on the internet, through:
         o simple tools for users to report harmful content and contact.
         o age-appropriate privacy settings.
         o wider use of content classification.
         o wider availability and use of parental controls.
         o effective removal of child abuse material.
  conduct awareness campaigns regarding internet dangers, without however conducting a relevant
     campaign within 2016.
  have published a set of guidelines related to information security and privacy on our website.
  do not offer any adult, chatting or horoscope services.

as a result, within 2016 there were:
  no cases of non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding product and service use or their
     health and safety impacts.
  no recalls of products and services regarding health and safety impacts.
  no incidents or legal actions for non-compliance related to product and service use or their health
     and safety impacts.
  no relevant fines or other non-monetary sanctions imposed from respective authorities.


5. responsible procurement
a. supporting suppliers
during 2016, telekom albania cooperated with over 120 suppliers, out of whom 50% are local suppliers.
despite the globalization of procurement, the company strives to involve local suppliers in its supply chain
for products and services. it must be noted that the company’s activities and operations over the years
have encouraged international partners to establish their own presence in albania. in 2016, the
percentage of procurement expenses allocated to local suppliers exceeded 20%.

b. influencing our supply chain
since our size can significantly influence our suppliers’ responsible operations, we adhere to socially and
environmentally friendlier procurement practices as part of the dt group and utilize internal and external
performance indicators and management tools to systematically manage our procurement process.
furthermore, we:
  have adopted the dt group social charter, which includes internationally recognized employee and
     human rights, as well as ethical, social and environmental corporate governance standards. the
     social charter complies with the fundamental principles and standards of the international labour



               g4-12, g4-56, g4-dma, g4-ec9, g4-en33, g4-la15, g4-hr11, g4-so10

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               61

    organization (ilo), the universal declaration of human rights and the un global compact, as well
    as the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd).
   have adopted a set of core values and business principles to evaluate our suppliers regarding
    corporate responsibility issues in the areas of labour, health and safety, environment and ethics,
    which are included in our supplier code of conduct.
   require from all suppliers who submit their proposals to explicitly declare that they agree to adhere
    to the supplier code of conduct, which is published on the corporate website at
    https://www.telekom.com.al/company/compliance/.
   have adopted integrity checks to consider prior to initiate collaboration with new suppliers, which
    are performed according to our anti-corruption practices and company policies and procedures.
   include corporate responsibility and anti-corruption clauses to the tender requirements by our
    departments, which are binding for all company suppliers and are included in the contracts with all
    suppliers.
   expect from our suppliers to take all necessary actions in order for their sub-contractors to comply
    with the supplier code of conduct’s obligations.



    corporate responsibility issues included in the supplier code of
                                conduct
                   categories                                       issues
                                                         freely chosen employment
                                                           child labour avoidance
                                                               working hours
       labour                                                 terms & payment
                                                             humane treatment
                                                             non-discrimination
                                                           freedom of association
                                                             occupational safety
                                                                   facilities
       health and safety
                                                         physically demanding work
                                                            health & safety policy
                                                pollution prevention and resource reduction
                                                hazardous substances, wastewater and solid
       environment
                                                               waste emissions
                                                            environmental policy
                                                  corruption, extortion, or embezzlement
                                                          disclosure of information
       ethics
                                                           no improper advantage
                                                      protection of intellectual property




√ good practice… respecting our suppliers’ rights
within our code of conduct, which has been communicated to all of our employees, we have included
principles which underline the way we interact with our suppliers. within this frame, our company:
-    maintains relationships with our suppliers based on trust and fairness.
-    behaves towards partners and suppliers with respect and transparency.
-    favors collaborating with environmentally friendlier and socially responsible suppliers.
-    generally separates any related purchasing and sales activities.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              62




t group good practice… strengthening corporate
responsibility in the supply chain
as the supply chain poses a key aspect for its reputation and future business success, the group:
-    has appointed the chief human resources officer responsible for supply chain management and to
     monitor the implementation of the global compact principles for human rights and labour
     standards.
-    has developed the coltan statement and the statement on extractives, which state its
     requirements from manufacturing suppliers to use ores and similar materials sourced from conflict
     zones, which are an integral part of its contracts with manufacturing suppliers.
-    has established limits for devices regarding use of hazardous substances, such as antimony,
     beryllium and arsenic, and requires detailed findings from suppliers to prove that these limits are
     being met.
-    is open to receive reports from employees along its supply chain regarding any issues, concerns or
     complaints they may have, through the whistle-blower mechanism.
-    implemented a development program to its strategic suppliers during 2016, in order to introduce
     socially and ecologically acceptable and financially efficient business practices. the program
     focused around better working conditions at the group suppliers, which resulted to reduce the
     number of work-related accidents and the turnover rate, reduce recruitment and training costs, as
     well as increase productivity.
-    conducted 73 audits (on-site evaluations and visits) to suppliers within 2016, which also included
     employee interviews.

as a result of the above practices, the group scored 98 out of 100 points in the renowned robecosam
sustainability rating for its supply chain management in 2016, five points higher than the respective
score in 2015.



c. monitoring suppliers
since 2010, the annual supplier evaluation process is conducted at ote group level for all ote group
companies (including telekom albania) and is coordinated by the group’s process improvement and
international process management coordination department. the process’s objectives are to evaluate
the suppliers’ performance based on the quality and efficiency of their products or services, as well as
evaluate their commitment towards environmental protection, employee health and safety and
corporate responsibility.

in 2016, the following types of suppliers were evaluated throughout the process:
  global suppliers with a total spending of over €2 million at group level (except suppliers of roaming
     and interconnection services, donations and sponsorships).
  global suppliers of important commodities (i.e. products/services with a potential significant
     impact on products and services offered to customers) with a total spending between €500,000 and
     €2 million at group level.
  local suppliers with a total spending between €20,000 and €500,000.

the 2016 supplier performance evaluation process was conducted to 35 global suppliers and 58 local
suppliers, compared to 20 and 55 suppliers respectively in 2015, during which the responsible business
owners conduct an internal evaluation and suppliers are required to complete and return a self-
assessment questionnaire. furthermore, during the self-assessment questionnaire’s completion,
suppliers were prompted to complete and sign the company’s code of conduct, in order to assure that
they also comply with legislation and the group’s core business values and principles.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                    63


the five criteria categories used for their evaluation and their corresponding weighting factors are:



                        supplier evaluation criteria categories
                                                                            weighting factor
        company assessment (financial health, past performance /
        citations, compliance to contract terms, conflict of interest,             15%
        legal proceedings)
                                                                              25 % product
        product / service overview
                                                                           30% service or both
                                                                           20% service or both
        delivery performance
                                                                              25% product
        supplier relationship (integrity intention to cooperate,
        shared risk & responsibility, price negotiation, invoice                   25%
        management, payment behaviour)
        corporate responsibility (corporate responsibility /
                                                                                   10%
        sustainability, ethics, environment, health & safety, quality)


ote group incorporated the evaluation results in the group’s results (which were discussed by the
group’s senior management for any required remedial actions and measures) and communicated them
to all group companies. throughout the supplier performance evaluation process, our management
team receives a quantitative assessment of each supplier’s performance, which is taken as reference for
any future relationship with that supplier, while a more detailed analysis is performed for conditional
suppliers, in order to design relevant action plans. the supplier evaluation process’s results were the
following:



                 supplier evaluation results for telekom albania
                                                                             percentage
          suppliers to be excluded – suppliers should be excluded
                                                                                  0%
          from the group suppliers’ list
          suppliers under supervision – suppliers should be under
          supervision and chosen only in special cases, following                 0%
          approval from the responsible director and ceo
          conditional suppliers – suppliers do not fulfill a
                                                                                 9.7%
          considerable number of telekom albania's requirements
          approved suppliers – suppliers satisfactorily fulfill
                                                                                  87%
          telekom albania's requirements, weak points are noticed
          reliable suppliers – suppliers fulfill telekom albania's
                                                                                 3.2%
          standards and could also become a partner


it must be noted that:
  in case a supplier with an active on-going contract is rated as “conditional”, we conduct meetings
     with the supplier, in order to discuss and implement relevant actions to resolve any identified
     issues as quickly as possible. no conditional suppliers for issues related to ethics were identified
     within 2016.
  there were no new potential suppliers with whom we did not initiate collaboration during 2016 for
     issues related to product/service quality and corporate responsibility, such as ethics,
     environmental protection and labour practices.

      corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              64

          we conducted an awareness health & safety program to 7 suppliers and over 105 employees, who
           are engaged in daily operations with telekom albania, such as providers of implementation and
           support activities for network operations, archiving and logistics, physical safety and security of
           premises and shops, sanitary and catering services. the program also included a briefing about our
           responsibility and commitment towards environmental protection, labour issues, ethics and data
           protection.
          so far, we have not identified any suppliers with significant actual or potential negative
           environmental, labour practices and human rights impacts or impacts on society, while no relevant
           incidents have been reported to date.

      d. ensuring product safety
      the provision of safe products is a particularly important issue for telekom albania and the company
      applies a wide range of practices to ensure that they are manufactured according to international
      standards and conventions. for example:
        telekom albania inquires suppliers about data regarding sar levels of mobile devices, data which
           are made available to our customers.
        mobile phone devices sold comply with the internationally acceptable sar levels (specific
           absorption rate).
        mobile phone’s sar levels are included in the product manual or user guide for each device.


      6. achievements 2016 and targets 2017
           we said                      progress                      we will                           by
handle 85% of complaints related           100%            handle 95% of complaints related            2017
to customer service in less than 5                         to customer service in less than 5
days.                                                      days.
                                                           deploy ip multimedia subsystem              2017
                                                           (ims) core technology to support
                                                           volte (voice over long-term
                                                           evolution).
                                                           launch an information leaflet               2017
                                                           about the risks associated with
                                                           internet access and the required
                                                           actions to protect children.
                                                           develop information material on             2017
                                                           safer internet and secure online
                                                           experience.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                            65


                            iv. our society

          support society beyond financial aid

   introduction and summary

our size:
€77.2 million turnover
€100.7 million economic value distributed
€121,000 social contribution
7,350 people supported through our social contribution activities
48 employee volunteers

our objective:
to combine our business success, with prosperity and quality of life, for citizens in
local communities we conduct our business in.


our achievements:
- we distributed over €100 million in economic value: over €6.7 million to
  employees, €2.1 million for taxes, €79.2 million to suppliers, €0.1 million to
  society and €12.6 million for investments.
- we increased the number of people supported through our social contribution
  activities by 27.5%.
- we provided internships to 63 students in the last two years.
- the total time allocated to volunteer activities reached 63 working hours.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               66


1. economic value generated
a. supporting albanian economy
telekom albania contributes to the development of the albanian economy through investments in
telecommunication infrastructures, creation of job positions and introduction of products and services.
the company achieves positive financial results, which are indicatively presented below for the period
2013-2016. in 2016, telekom albania managed to maintain its position in the country’s highly
fragmented and competitive market.



                                        financial results
                                                     2013         2014         2015         2016
   total revenues (million €)                         86.2        81.5         82.6         77.2
   earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
                                                      33.7        29.8         20.6         16.1
   and amortization (ebitda) (million €)
   capital expenditures (including spectrum
                                                      nr           nr           nr          16.2
   payments) (million €)
   net profits (million €)                            nr           nr           nr          0.03
   corporate taxes (million €)                        nr           nr           nr            1
   total taxes (including vat) (million €)            8.7          nr           nr           2.1
   payments to suppliers (million €)                  nr           nr           nr          79.2
   cost of employees (including salaries,
                                                      nr           nr           nr           6.7
   benefits and insurance payments) (million €)
   investments (million €)                            10.5         nr           nr          12.6
                                           nr: not reported



our business operations ensure we generate and return significant economic value back to our
stakeholders, mostly through purchases (towards our suppliers), salaries, benefits and insurance
payments (towards our employees), taxes (towards the state), social contribution (towards society) and
investments.




                                  g4-9, g4-17, g4-dma, g4-ec1

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              67

                                  economic value distribution




                 *the amount refers to gross salaries, benefits and insurance payments.
                          **the amount refers to total taxes, including vat.
                     ***the amount refers to value of sponsorships and donations.



                 we distributed over €100 million in economic
                  value: over €6.7 million to employees, €2.1
                million for taxes, €79.2 million to suppliers, €0.1
                     million to society and €12.6 million for
                                   investments


2. digital divide and smart cities

      your opinion… supporting technology and innovation
according to a survey conducted to a total of 1,052 citizens in october-december 2016,       34%    of
participants believe that telekom albania is the most active company related to support technology and
innovation initiatives.



a. understanding the digital divide
despite the large proliferation of information and technology services, approximately 3.9 billion people
(approximately 53% of the global population) do not use the internet. european countries feature the

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              68

smaller percentage of non-internet users, followed by the cis countries (the former soviet union
countries) and the americas, while the highest percentage is found is africa.

                     population coverage of mobile networks




                source: itu’s ict facts and figures 2016 report, estimated figures for 2016


while almost 1 billion households worldwide now have internet access (out of which 230 million are in
china, 60 million in india and 20 million in the world's 48 least developed countries), the most
representative indicator of the digital divide’s extent is the fact that 84% of households in europe are
connected to the internet, while the respective figure for households in africa is 15.4%. at the same
time, internet penetration rates for men are higher compared to women in all regions of the world and
are extremely low in the world’s least developed countries (ldc), as the global internet user gender
gap increased to 12% in 2016, compared to 11% in 2013.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                69

                        internet penetration rates per gender




                source: itu’s ict facts and figures 2016 report, estimated figures for 2016



according to measurements on mobile connection coverage and performance conducted by opensignal
and included in the “the state of lte” november 2016 report, albania demonstrates a 61.4%
consistency availability of 4g networks (which means that on average the country's 4g users can find an
lte signal over half of the time they try to connect) and average 4g speeds slightly exceed 20.2 mbps,
which is above the global average 4g speed of 17.4 mbps. however, despite the continuous efforts to
bridge the digital divide, the country faces corresponding challenges to provide modern ict services to a
wider population. these efforts are undermined by the fact that only 38% of adult population had a
bank account and the country’s overall unemployment and youth unemployment were 17.3% and
32.1% respectively in 2015, based on world bank’s estimates. these figures are vital to strengthen
digital economic activities and promote economic development. therefore, the respective
communications and internet penetration rates are significantly lagging. according to itu’s ict
indicators in 2015, there were:
  approximately 7.1 fixed-telephone subscriptions per 100 inhabitants (226,718 subscriptions), while
     the respective average for european countries was 37.5.
  approximately 106.4 fixed-telephone subscriptions per 100 inhabitants (3,400,955 subscriptions),
     while the respective average for european countries was 119.8.
  approximately 7.6 fixed-broadband subscriptions per 100 inhabitants (242,870 subscriptions), while
     the respective average for european countries was 29.2.
  approximately 51 active mobile-broadband subscriptions per 100 inhabitants (1.4 million
     subscriptions, while the respective average for european countries was 65.6 (data refer to 2014).
  63.2% of individuals use the internet (compared to 45% in 2010), while the respective average for
     european countries was 76.3%.

b. reducing the digital divide
our approach related to reduce digital divide is to ensure proper geographical and demographic
coverage, as well widen access and create opportunities for individuals and communities to utilize digital
services. telekom albania strives to contribute to overcome the socio-cultural barriers that restrict the
opportunity to participate in the information society and enjoy its benefits.

currently, telekom albania has over 1.8 million subscribers, who expect to remain connected at all
times, and offers 87.8% territory coverage and 96.4% population coverage in its 3g network, compared
to 87% and 96% respectively in 2015.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  70

c. shaping the transformation of cities




t group good practice… innovative solutions for smart
cities
the intense urbanization and the population increase in cities mean that they can become the field for
innovative solutions to help reshape them into smart urban areas. indicatively, deutsche telekom group
is actively involved in the following smart city projects throughout the world during 2016:
-     mysmartlife in hamburg: the city implements various projects, such as in renewable energy and
      environmentally-friendlier mobility, in order to transform hamburg into a smart city. all projects
      involve active citizen participation and 14 partners support the city’s transformation, including
      hafencity university and hamburg university of applied sciences.
-     smart street lamps in monheim am rhein: as part of a pilot project, the city of monheim am rhein
      installed new street lamps, which require approximately 70% less energy, are dimmable and can be
      remote-controlled through a state-of-the-art light management system.
-     smart city pilot project in dubrovnik: croatia’s largest smart city pilot project features installation
      of magnetic parking sensors at 30 parking spaces to provide drivers with real-time information on
      vacant parking spaces, multi-sensor video surveillance for traffic violations, smart streetlights and
      sensors to monitor air quality.
-     smart city project in bucharest: the first integrated smart city project in romania (at tineretuliu
      park in bucharest) features the “tap&park” application for drivers to easily identify whether there
      is an available parking space near the park, free-of-charge internet access to visitors in a designated
      area, a video surveillance system and an application that identifies specific predefined actions to
      trigger intervention by the authorities (such as vandalism or trespassing in restricted areas), as well
      as smart streetlights, which reduce energy costs by approximately 60%.
-     smart city project in skopje: since the beginning of 2016, an advanced integrated automatic
      vehicle location system and an electronic ticketing system in the public city transportation system
      were installed, which enable real-time monitoring of traffic network and passenger transportation,
      as well as control and regulate public transportation services. in october, the project received an
      award in the category “sustainable growth solution” by the world information technology and
      services alliance.



3. social products and services
a. introducing products and services for vulnerable social groups
at telekom albania, we strive to introduce and expand services for vulnerable groups, in order to
improve their quality of life. indicative examples include:

improved user interface: we have introduced improvements to user friendliness for various products
and services, which ensure that people with age-related or physical limitations are able to effectively
use modern means of communication. at the same time, large keypad phones are available for sale in
our shops, which are best suited for the elderly people.

mykid watch: the watch is specially designed for children between 4 and 12 years old and is equipped
with a sim card, a gps receiver and a sensor, which allow parents to:
 control and limit the individuals that can call the child.
 control the calls and texts received by the child.
 locate their child.
 monitor various activities, such as sleep and exercise activities.



                                            g4-dma, g4-ec8

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               71

   be notified in case of emergency situations.

e-di application: the cloud-based platform service allows parents to stay connected with their family
members at all times, such as locate family members in real-time, define a security zone for family
members and protect their smartphones from various threats.

b. supporting services for the broader well-being
our main objective is to utilize technology to serve people and offer communication services, which
support wider needs of society.

emergency services: we allow free-of-charge calls in our network to emergency numbers, such as 127
(ambulance), 128 (fire brigade) and 129 (police).

public awareness: during 2016, we offered services to facilitate communication of citizens with the
albanian government through short codes, namely the line to the prime minister’s office related to
anti-corruption in the public sector (50505) and the innovation ministry’s informative service (118 00).


4. social contribution
a. supporting society


      your opinion… commitment to society
according to a survey conducted to a total of 1,052 citizens in october-december 2016,        76%      of
participants believe that telekom albania is committed to support initiatives and organizations, in order
to facilitate society development.




      your opinion… societal support awareness
according to a survey conducted to a total of 1,057 citizens in october-december 2016,        67%
                                                                                                of
participants have heard, saw or noticed any of telekom albania’s societal support activities (e.g.
festivals, cultural or social events), excluding television programs.




      your opinion… societal support activities
according to a survey conducted to a total of 1,052 citizens in october-december 2016,  of    26%
participants believe that telekom albania is the most active company related to support of
underprivileged citizens and vulnerable social groups,   47% related to football events and 30%
related to charities and donations to institutions.


we focus on the following areas to support society, in order to help people in need and improve their
quality of life:
  children welfare and development.
  vulnerable social groups and people with special needs.
  equal access to education and information.



                                g4-dma, g4-ec8, g4-so2, g4-so11

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              72

   disaster relief.




                 we increased the number of people supported
                  through our social contribution activities by
                                     27.5%

                                children welfare and development
hospital renovations: telekom albania supported the renovation of the premises of the specialized
“the angels’ cradle nursery” department at the maternity hospital “mbreteresha geraldine”. since its
establishment 20 years ago, the nursery has cared for over 650 abandoned babies up to now, mainly
with the support of foreign volunteers and the organization for the support of the albanian abandoned
babies. the project has improved the conditions for abandoned babies and the hospital’s employees,
through a new and modern infrastructure, as well as suitable furniture to accommodate these babies
and respond to their needs.

at the same time, we contributed to renovate the clinical premises of “shefqet ndroqi” university
hospital, which is the largest hospital in albania for respiratory diseases and treats approximately
12,000 patients annually.

newborns’ registration: telekom albania and the ministry of health support the registration of all
newborns at the country’s health centres through a unicef project, in order for health centres to have
more detailed information about all children. the company’s support allows to develop and implement
a functional model to digitize the information of the birth certificate and medical records and transfer
them in real-time to primary health care facilities, which will contribute to equal access to health
services for marginalized children or children living in remote areas.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  73

                      vulnerable social groups and people with special needs
green ideas: telekom albania and the non-profit organization “partners albania” organized the “green
ideas” competition for the fifth time, which aims to identify, select and support innovative ideas to
promote social and sustainable development. the competition is open to local communities, social
enterprises and small businesses and an evaluation panel of experts in various fields, members of the
general public, officials from international institutions and a company’s representative select the
winning ideas. in 2016, the organization “the door” was awarded with the winning green idea for its
project to build a social farm in the shkodra region, which aims to rehabilitate people who require social
care and integrate underprivileged individuals into society.

down syndrome month: telekom albania participated in the down syndrome month and supported
the organization “down syndrome albania”. within this context, we organized the “buddy walk” along
tirana’s main boulevard and a live concert with famous albanian singers at mother teresa square, in
order to support the cause and raise community awareness.




? did you know… alzheimer's disease and dementia
according to the global impact of dementia (2013–2050) report, over 135 million people will suffer
from dementia by 2050, which has been recognized as one of the most important challenges in the
health sector, since it disrupts the formation of new memories and affects older memories; thus, leaving
people isolated and disorientated.

to support research against alzheimer's disease and dementia, in 2016 deutsche telekom launched the
multi-platform online game “sea hero quest”, in collaboration with university researchers and the
alzheimer's research organizations, who requested the help of the gaming community. it is estimated
that 100,000 gamers can generate the equivalent amount of data from 50 years of lab-based research
just by playing for two minutes, which will significantly assist researchers in their work. over 2.5 million
people in 193 nations have played the game so far, which has received nine awards during the cannes
lions international festival of creativity.

dt group actively promotes the game across its platforms in 13 european countries, including albania.
telekom albania has introduced the game in the albanian language, in a country where 50% of the
albanian population of at least 80 years old is affected by dementia. it must be noted that the game’s
high download rate by users brought albania in the first place of downloads per population in all
countries where dt group promotes the game.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             74



                            equal access to education and information
internship programs: we offer internship programs to students, in order to give them the opportunity
to gain work experience and develop valuable skills which help them perform better on their future jobs
or on their studies. within 2016, we provided internship programs to 31 students, who applied their
knowledge in a real working environment and acquired professional experience to develop skills and
competencies, in order to advance their personal and professional development.




                 we provided internships to 63 students in the
                                last two years

                                           disaster relief
communication support: telekom albania offered free-of-charge phone calls from albania to all belgian
landline and mobile numbers for seven days in march 2016 (24/05 – 31/05), in response to the attacks
occurred in brussels’ main airport and subway. the initiative aimed to facilitate communication of
telekom albania’s subscribers with their relatives and friends in belgium.




√ good practice… one life
in 2016, telekom albania launched the one life free healthcare program, which allows its customers to
benefit from a package of medical examination and personal consultation with doctors in selected
private hospitals:
-    mobile customers who recharge their pre-paid account by €7.3 are rewarded with the silver
     package, which includes free unlimited medical visits to a surgeon, pediatrician, orthopedist,
     gynecologist or pathologist.
-    mobile customers who recharge their pre-paid account by €7.3 for three consecutive months are
     rewarded with the gold package, which includes an annual package of complete blood
     examinations, cholesterol, glycaemia and cardiac tests, as well as dental control and dental
     cleaning.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               75


it must be noted that post-paid customers can simply register into one life and become part of the
program and all post-paid customers of another mobile operator can simply transfer and number and
benefit from the program’s healthcare services. the program is also available to all employees from
companies engaged in business contracts with telekom albania. by the end of 2016, there were
approximately 80,000 users of the one life packages.




√ good practice… medical treatment for abandoned
animals
besides it contribution to society, telekom albania supports social initiatives which improve the life of
companion animals. within 2016, the company supported the municipality of tirana to implement a
solution about abandoned dogs, which included their treatment in a modern veterinary clinic, located in
the former kombinati area. the clinic is estimated to care about 15 dogs daily and the involved partners’
aim is to expand this initiative in the future with shelters or awareness campaigns for citizens on how
they should treat animals and be closer to them.



b. ensuring transparency of society support activities
our approach for each project’s implementation utilizes the following four-stage process:
 planning, where we identify the project’s:
       o objectives.
       o beneficiaries.
       o duration.
       o monitoring methods.
       o budget.
 selection, where we select the projects based on clearly predefined criteria.
 management, where we usually conclude partnership agreements with either cash or in-kind
    contribution with various organizations.
 control, where we utilize specific key performance indicators to measure its success, based on the
    project’s specific features.

it must be noted that:
  the corporate affairs office is responsible to design and implement social contribution activities,
     with the ceo’s direction and support.
  the company’s compliance office reviews all sponsorships and donations approved by the ceo,
     regarding their compliance with the company’s regulations.
  we collaborate closely with other dt group companies, in order to share experiences and best
     practices across countries or engage in various group-wide initiatives.




√ good practice… transparency of donations and sponsoring
according to our code of conduct, we act within the limitations of legal and financial frameworks
regarding our support to education, science, culture, social causes, sports and the environment with
financial and in-kind donations, as well as services. as a result, we:
-    do not proceed with any donations to obtain business advantages.
-    comply with the respective legal requirements and internal policies.
-    record the recipient’s name and the donation’s purpose for all donations.
-    do not perform any donations to individuals or private accounts, as well as to individuals or
     organizations that could potentially damage the ote group companies’ interests or image.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                76

-   require that sponsoring partners/organizers deliver appropriate and verifiable communications and
    marketing services.



c. encouraging volunteerism
we cultivate volunteerism and strive to involve our employees, customers, suppliers and business
partners in various initiatives and programs, in order to develop responsible and active citizens, through
the following activities:

support to children: in 2016, our employees prepared and donated gifts to each child in the onko-
hematology ward of the university hospital centre “mother teresa” in tirana and contributed to make
15 children's wishes come true. at the same time, they used 20 educational tablets donated by telekom
albania in 2015 and volunteered to teach children with prolonged hospitalization periods to utilize
educational software based on the republic of albania’s educational system, in order to improve the
children’s media literacy skills.

       corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             77




                         the total time allocated to volunteer activities
                                    reached 63 working hours

       d. caring for the impact of our operations
       local communities are directly related with our company and activities. therefore, we aim to identify
       our operations’ impacts on local communities and ensure that our operations respect the well-being of
       albanian citizens. it must be noted that, within 2016:
         we have not identified any operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local
           communities.
         there were no complaints filed through formal grievance mechanisms regarding the impact of our
           operations on local communities.
         there were no cases of dispute with the local communities.
         there were no accidents with significant impact on the local communities.
         there were no fines or other non-monetary sanctions imposed by the respective authorities
           regarding the impact of our operations on local communities.


       5. achievements 2016 and targets 2017
           we said                      progress                       we will                          by
support equipment or                        100%           provide medical equipment to                2017
rehabilitation of a health                                 health institutions.
centre/hospital.
offer job practices to at least 20          100%
students studying in albanian
universities.
organize an awareness campaign               0%
to support children in need.
organize four volunteer activities.         50%            organize a volunteer activity to            2017
                                                           support an institution dedicated to
                                                           children, with the participation of
                                                           50 volunteer employees.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                     78


                          v. our employees

         create a safe, fair and engaging work
                     environment

    introduction and summary

our size:
438 employees
276 women
34.5 average age of employees
0 accidents
5,014 hours of training

our objective:
to create a work environment, which ensures long-term career opportunities and
facilitates our employees’ development.


our achievements:
-   we employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts.
-   we increased health and safety training hours by 4.4%.
-   we had no accidents within our workplace.
-   we maintained the percentage of women employees to over 60% of total
    workforce.
-   we increased the percentage of women in middle level manager position and
    director position to 67% and 33% respectively.
-   our lowest employee salary is 105% higher than the legal basic salary.
-   we assessed 100% of applicable employees.
-   we trained at least once 46.3% of our employees.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             79


1. employment and communication
a. depending on our employees
operating in a constantly changing business environment, it is imperative for us to be recognized as an
attractive employer, who creates the appropriate opportunities for personal and professional
development, establishes a healthy and safe work environment and respects the human rights and
diversity of our employees.

therefore, we comply with deutsche telekom group human resources strategies and policies, such as
the group policy on employee relations, which addresses the following topics:
  employee development.
  handling change responsibly.
  healthcare and sustainability.
  fair pay.
  achieving a good work-life balance.
  leadership.
  diversity.
  ban on discrimination.
  communication.
  collaboration with employee representatives.

the policy applies to all employees and leaders worldwide and aims to build a global cultural umbrella
for the group’s diverse and international workforce. however, as in other countries, we have
additionally crafted our employee relations in compliance with the country's specific laws, cultural
practices and local legislation.

b. maintaining job positions
at telekom albania, we directly occupy 438 employees, while due to our business activity we have
indirectly leveraged the creation of approximately 226 job positions in albania, an aspect especially
important due to the economic challenges.




                       g4-9, g4-10, g4-56, g4-ec8, g4-dma, g4-la1, g4-la12

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                   80

                                     human resources
                          chief executive
                                                 upper level           middle level
     hierarchy               officer /                                                employees           total
                                                  managers              managers
                             directors
 employees (number)              8                     19                  67            344                438
 employment type            permanent                       temporary                 full time         part time
                                                             14 (3.2%)
 employees (number)             424                                                      438                 0
                                                            (11 women)
       gender                 female                             male
 employees (number)             276                               162
        age                    <30                               30-50                            >50
 employees (number)             95                                332                             11
     categories            nationalities                    disabilities                        expats
       number                    3                                 1                               6
                          public school /
  education level                                    university education             postgraduate education
                           high school
 employees (number)              2                                402                             34
employment tenure            <5 years                       5-10 years                         >10 years
    employees (%)              31.3                              36.1                             32.6
   working place              offices                            shops
 employees (number)             383                               55
     new hires                female                             male                  <30       30-50           >50
 employees (number)             32                                22                    33         21             0
      turnover                female                             male                  <30       30-50           >50
 employees (number)             23                                39                    12         44             6
      turnover             resignations                  redundancies                           other
 turnover reason (%)            11                                 3                               0
                                     data refer to 31/12/2016.

it must be noted that:
  there are no variations in employment numbers due to seasonality.
  the average age is 34.5 years.
  the average employment tenure is 7.8 years.
  the employee turnover rate was 14%, out of which 3% remained within deutsche telekom group,
     while the employee turnover rate for male and female employees was 5% and 9% respectively.
  there were 2 employees who left before completing 12 months of employment.



                    we employ 100% of our employees with full
                          time employment contracts

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               81




√ good practice… supporting youth employability
responding to our commitment to support young people in their career planning and allow them to find
a new job, we participated in 4 job fairs organized in tirana by the ministry of social welfare and youth
and private universities in may 2016, during which we interviewed over 400 candidates (mainly young
people) and created a candidate pool for future vacancies.




c. communicating with employees
as we recognize the importance of effective internal communication, we utilize a wide range of means
in order to maintain a transparent, continuous and interactive communication with our employees.
within 2016, we:
  utilized our intranet for several articles and postings related to corporate responsibility.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                          82

   sent e-mails to all employees for various corporate and corporate responsibility issues, which
    included:
        o information on all new products and services.
        o participation in surveys and polls.
        o information about various international days (e.g. guiding principles day).
        o call for volunteers for children’s hospital and center for newborn babies.
        o introduction of the “sea hero quest” game.
        o introduction of “you and me”, the internal dt’s social network.
        o participation in various leisure activities organized by the company after working hours.
        o energy consumption reduction.
   organized two offsite management team meetings.
   organized two performance dialogue roundtables (via telepresence) between telekom albania,
    ote group and dt group.
   initiated the pilot connected work roadshow with workshops on our collaboration platforms and
    demonstration of cooperation tools to our employees, in order to increase awareness of deutsche
    telekom group-wide tools, such as yam (deutsche telekom’s internal social network), jabber,
    webex, sharepoint, minerva and telepresence, as well as empower them towards international
    and cross-functional networking.
   sent personalized electronic briefings (e-mails), for corporate and other issues.
   sent electronic newsletters for recent news.
   organized a formal event to reward 3 employees who have been working with our company for
    over 20 years.

as a result of our practices, all employees have been informed at least once regarding corporate
responsibility issues within 2016.


2. health and safety
a. ensuring health and safety
having as a priority to offer our employees a safe workplace, we strive to ensure suitable work
conditions and follow health and safety rules, in order to protect our employees. for his reason:
  we exceed the requirements of the albanian legislation and voluntarily adopt and comply with
    international recognized standards.
  since 2012, the company’s health and safety management system is based on the ohsas 18001
    standard for occupational health and safety and we describe in detail all parties, tasks and
    measures involved within the system’s context in a handbook and procedural instructions, which
    have been signed by the executive management. during 2016, we organized focused sessions to
    inform our employees on the employee representatives who were assigned as members of the
    integrated management system committee on health and safety performance.
  we have certified all our operations according to the requirements of ohsas 18001.
  our health and safety management system and the health and safety policy comply with the
    respective albanian national laws and regulations.
  we have adopted a common quality, health and safety and environmental policy, which illustrates
    our commitment to implement country regulations and shape a preventive culture for health and
    safety at work.
  we have established the health and safety committee at work, which represents 0.9% of
    employees, consists of 4 appointed telekom albania representatives and 4 elected employee
    representatives and is responsible to implement health and safety measures, in accordance with
    the albanian legislation in force. the committee meets quarterly with management representatives
    to discuss issues and processes related to improve health and safety at work.
  our health and safety team conducts monthly and quarterly workplace safety inspections on
    company premises.
  our health and safety team performs annual occupational hazard studies for each facility,
    following a standard methodology according to ohsas 18001:2007 requirements.



                                g4-dma, g4-la5, g4-la6, g4-la7

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             83

   we have equipped our buildings and own shops with a first aid kit.
   we employ an occupational physician, who is available to assist employees in case of health issues.
   we measure noise, lighting, humidity and temperature levels in our headquarters and own shops.
   we perform four indoor and outdoor emf measurements for every facility per year, whose figures
    are officially reported and published in our intranet.
   we train our employees in occupational health and safety principles and practices.
   we have established a comprehensive accident–incident reporting system, which is maintained by
    the occupational health and safety team and covers event investigation, recommendations and
    statutory reporting.
   we conduct evacuation and safety drills for each facility once per year. within 2016, we organized
    evaluation drills in our headquarters and warehouse, our building in kashar, as well as in all own
    shops.
   we inform our employees on health and well-being issues, through workshops, e-mails and
    intranet articles.
   we have included health and safety issues in the employee satisfaction survey, such as
    mental/physical well-being and work-life balance.
   we immediately take care of our employee’s health in first aid treatment cases, such as small skin
    injuries from paper cutting and scratches, skin allergies and blood pressure measurements (mainly
    in young employees and pregnant women with low blood pressure).
   we provide an annual medical examination to all employees (including new hired employees) as
    part of our corporate medical examination program, which includes eye sight test, physical check-
    ups, health promotion tests and clinical examinations, with additional medical examinations for
    employees whose job is classified as difficult. during 2016, we performed the respective medical
    examinations to all our employees.
   we systematically assess the effectiveness of health and safety measures and we review the
    employee survey’s results and the relevant performance indicators.
   we encourage our employees’ ideas and comments to improve health and safety within the
    workplace or express their concerns through the dedicated e-mail address
    health&safety@telekom.com.al or contact directly the occupational health and safety team.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 84


√ good practice… internal health and safety information
campaigns
we implement regular internal information campaigns to raise awareness on health and safety issues,
mainly though the company’s intranet and internal e-mails. within 2016, we organized the following
campaigns:
-   a campaign to promote the world day for safety and health at work 2016, where we informed all
    employees through e-mail and our intranet.
-   the campaign “nutrition for a healthy autumn season!”, where we informed all employees
    through an e-mail and an informative article on our intranet.
-   the campaign “influenza can become serious”, where we informed all employees through an e-mail
    and an informative article on our intranet.
-   the campaign “stress at the workplace”, where we provided practical tips for stress management
    through e-mail, intranet and dedicated posters in our premises to all employees.




√ good practice… health and safety trainings
indicating our efforts to establish a safe work environment, we implement various health and safety
trainings, such as:

first aid training: we provide a first aid training program to all employees involved in jobs classified as
difficult (such as working at height, working with electricity or within warehouses) and to all employees
of the emergency response structure (ert).

working safely at heights training: the program aims to ensure appropriate capabilities and
knowledge and consists of training all new employees involved with working at height, as well as an
annual refresher training for all existing employees. the training covers all areas of safe working
conditions on overhead pylons and includes:
-   briefing and theoretical training for working at heights.
-   practical exercises for working at heights.
-   hands-on application for security techniques whilst working at height.
-   training in the use of specialized equipment.
-   demonstration of required personal protective equipment.
-   understanding of an accident’s possibility and the necessity for security measures.
-   rescue procedures.

workshop on health and safety at work: we implemented a workshop to promote health and safety at
work, as well as firefighting and response in cases of emergency to specific subcontractors’ employees
(bus drivers, canteen employees and employees involved in cleaning activities).


to develop our annual plan for health and safety trainings, we evaluate the previous year’s actions,
such as inspection results and records of occupational accidents. within 2016, the average health and
safety training reached approximately 2.5 hours per employee, compared to 2.3 hours in 2015, in the
following training sessions.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                        85

                       health and safety training sessions
                                              2015                       2016
                                     employees       employee    employees      employee
                                       trained        training     trained       training
                                      (number)        (hours)     (number)       (hours)
    health & safety topics in
                                        32                64        55            110
    induction program
    emergency drills                   316                316      369            369
    fire protection and emergency
    preparedness training –             36                36        17             17
    incident response team
    tower climbing and rescue           10                160       nr             nr
    working with electrical
                                        16                128       17            136
    equipment and installments
    first aid training                  27                189       44            308
    safe driving                        nr                nr        nr            nr
    shop security                       50                50        49            49
    occupational health and safety
                                       100                100      100            100
    awareness sessions
                  total                                1,043                      1,089
                                       nr: not reported



              we increased health and safety training hours by
                                   4.4%

   corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                       86


   b. monitoring our performance
   the results of the above approaches are reflected in the following table, where incidents related to
   health and safety are summarized. it must be noted that:
     there are no employees with high incidence or risk of disease associated with their work, while
       there were no occupational diseases among our employees.
     there were no complaints or legal actions for health and safety issues.
     there were no relevant fines or other non-monetary sanctions imposed by the respective
       authorities.



                                             health and safety
                                                      2012          2013          2014        2015         2016
    fatalities (number)                                  0             0            0            0            0
                   employee fatalities (number)          0             0            0            0            0
               collaborators’ fatalities (number)        0             0            0            0            0
    work-related accidents (number)                      0             0            0            0            0
    employee’s injured (number)                          0             0            0            0            0
                         men injured (number)            0             0            0            0            0
                      women injured (number)             0             0            0            0            0
    injury rate (rate)*                                  0             0            0            0            0
                                       men (rate)        0             0            0            0            0
                                  women (rate)           0             0            0            0            0
    occupational diseases rate (rate)**                  0             0            0            0            0
                                       men (rate)        0             0            0            0            0
                                  women (rate)           0             0            0            0            0
    lost day rate (rate)***                              0             0            0            0            0
                                       men (rate)        0             0            0            0            0
                                  women (rate)           0             0            0            0            0
    absentee rate (rate)****                           1.37          1.21         1.02         1.06         1.10
    *injury rate (ir) = (total number of injuries/total hours worked) x 200,000. the factor 200,000 is derived from 50
            working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. the data do not include minor (first aid level) injuries.
**occupational diseases rate (odr) = (total number of occupational diseases cases/total hours worked) x 200,000. the
                       factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees.
 ***lost day rate (ldr) = (total number of lost days/total hours worked) x 200,000. the factor 200,000 is derived from
     50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. lost days are calculated as scheduled work days. lost days count
           begins on the day of the injury or the next day, depending on the time of the day that the injury occurs.
  ****absentee rate (ar) = (total number of missed absentee days/total number of workforce days worked) x 25,000.
                       the factor 25,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 5 days per 100 employees.



                          we had no accidents within our workplace


   3. fairness and diversity
   a. establishing a fair work environment
   our commitment towards meritocracy follows the principles of respect for human rights, fair
   employment, prevention of child or forced labour, non-discrimination, equal treatment for women and
   men, in decisions related to employment aspect (e.g. salaries), as expressed through:
     the national labour code and relevant regulatory framework which prohibits the use of child and
       forced labour.



                   g4-11, g4-15, g4-56, g4-dma, g4-ec6, g4-la4, g4-la12, g4-la13, g4-la16,
                                           g4-hr1, g4-hr3, g4-hr12

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                87

   the company’s code of conduct and employee on labour relations policy, which prohibits unlawful
    discrimination or harassment due to age, gender, religion, competence, origin, cultural background
    or sexual orientation.
   the company’s employee manual, which highlights principles and guides employee behaviour.
   the united nations global compact, which we have signed.

based on these principles:
  under no circumstances, will we employ any individual below the legal age limit (as defined by the
    albanian legislation).
  we commit ourselves not to follow, or even tolerate, coercive work in our premises.
  we anticipate our suppliers not to occupy individuals below the legal work age or to tolerate
    practices of physical harassment and exploitation or use of coercive work in any of their premises.




√ good practice… respecting diversity
according to our code of conduct, we respect the individuality of our employees and cultivate individual
and cultural diversity. as a result, we do not tolerate any form of unlawful discrimination or harassment
within our company or in our business relationships. it must be noted that all telekom albania
employees have the right and opportunity of one-to-one counseling with the human resources
department regarding any discrimination issue.




t group good practice… protecting human rights
deutsche telekom group commits to the un guiding principles on business and human rights
published by the united nations human rights council in 2011 and has established comprehensive
processes related to the protection of human rights, in order to systematically identify the impact of its
operations on human rights and to prevent, mitigate or compensate these, if necessary. the group has
developed the following extensive program to implement the un guiding principles, which utilizes
several interconnected measures and tools.

                               human rights due diligence

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                           88


within 2016:
 there were no significant investment agreements and contracts with clauses on human rights.
 there were no complaints or grievances regarding discrimination incidents or unfair treatment.
 there were no complaints or grievances regarding human rights violation or labour practices.
 there were no legal actions regarding human rights issues or labour practices and no fines or other
    non-monetary sanctions were imposed by the respective authorities.
 two previous legal cases regarding labour issues with former employees were trialed and partially
    accepted by the tirana district court, for which telekom albania has appealed to the court of
    appeal and the respective hearing dates are still pending.




                    we maintained the percentage of women
                    employees to over 60% of total workforce


                  we increased the percentage of women in
                  middle level manager position and director
                     position to 67% and 33% respectively

although we have not an official policy to hire people from local communities, local employability is
taken into account for certain positions which require good knowledge of the albanian language and
local environment.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 89



                   national diversity in management structures
                                                   2012        2013   2014     2015      2016
           supervisory board
                                locals (number)      0          0       0         0        0
                                expats (number)      3          3       3         3        3
           board of directors
                              locals (number)        0          0       0         0        0
                              expats (number)        5          5       5         5        5
           upper management
                              locals (number)        18         13     18        13       20
                              expats (number)        16         8      7         8        5
           interdepartmental committees
                              locals (number)        5          8       8         8       nr
                              expats (number)        5          7       7         7       nr
                                            nr: not reported



b. offering fair salaries
our employee manual and the code of conduct include the issue of fair remuneration, according to
which we provide fair and equal salaries to men and women employees, which depend on position,
qualification, individual performance, market competitiveness, experience, employment tenure within
the company or the industry and local legal requirements and do not depend on the employees’ gender.

as a result:
  the minimum salary was in all cases higher than the legal basic salary, as defined by local
     legislation.
  the proportion of salary for men and women is almost equal within similar hierarchical level,
     employee category or area of activity, with statistically insignificant variations, as salaries do not
     depend on the employees’ gender.



                our lowest employee salary is 105% higher than
                            the legal basic salary

c. respecting the right of association
we respect the right of employees to engage in collective bargaining and express openly and freely,
individually or in groups their opinion, as described in our employee on labour relations policy and the
internationally recognized principles of human rights. while there is no employee union within telekom
albania, no operations in which the respective rights may be at significant risk have been identified. it
must be noted that:
  there are no contracts that have been part of any collective bargaining agreement.
  according to the respective legal requirements, the minimum notice period regarding operational
     changes for our employees is 30 days.
  our employees did not participate in any strike or lock-out.

d. ensuring confidentiality of employees’ personal data
we respect the right of employees to safeguard their personal data and we implement various
organizational and technical measures, which include:
  compliance with the provisions of data privacy laws.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             90

   compliance with the code of conduct for the protection of the individual’s rights to privacy in the
    handling of personal data within the ote group.
   hold personal documents (such as identification cards, passports or any other personal papers) only
    as long as it is necessary related to their employment and to determine remuneration.

as a result of our practices, within 2016:
  we did not receive any formal employee complaints regarding privacy issues or personal data
     security.
  there were no proceedings or investigations against the company related to confidentiality of
     employee personal data.


4. training and development
a. appraising employees
in order to identify strengths and areas for improvement, we use a performance appraisal system,
which is available to all employees through the company’s intranet. the system is:
  aligned with the guiding principles of our code of conduct.
  designed with an emphasis on customer experience excellence.
  based on specific and measurable objectives, professional competencies and performance criteria,
     which are revised as often as necessary to reflect current standards in the telecommunications
     sector and the corresponding required expertise.

every year, each employee’s performance is evaluated by their direct supervisor, based on pre-defined
objectives. it must be noted that, prior to the annual performance appraisal process, all newly
appointed managers attend tailor-made trainings, in order to:
  assess the annual performance appraisal process.
  assess their own performance.
  create an individual development plan based on their needs.

within 2016:
 5 executives participated in the group’s performance and potential review process to ascertain
    their readiness to undertake more demanding duties in the future, besides evaluating their own
    performance.
 5 managers attended the training program on the performance appraisal process.
 100% of our employees, who fulfilled the criteria of the respective appraisal procedure (i.e.
    employees not in maternity leave and new hired employees), have been appraised.



                   we assessed 100% of applicable employees

b. developing employees
internal advancements: our priority is to develop our own employees and prefer to cover job openings
from existing employees. all job vacancies are posted on the corporate intranet, to which all employees
have access. as a result, the percentage of permanent job openings covered by internal candidates
reached 12% within 2016.

role descriptions: a job families model (jfm) has also been applied to telekom albania, mirroring the
respective system implemented in ote group, through which all roles are analyzed and described. the
model assesses and ensures that the role content and each employee’s profile are fully understood and
facilitates efficient internal recruiting and career path.

manager support: we utilize an employees development guide to support the role of managers as


                                g4-22, g4-dma, g4-la11, g4-hr2

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              91

coaches, which allows them to identify employees’ strengths and areas for improvement, set objectives
and action plans related to employee development.




√ good practice… mentoring programs
we implemented a mentoring program for our employees in 2016, during which 5 employees (mentees)
received targeted guidance from 3 telekom albania executives (mentors), in order to develop their skills
and knowledge and advance their professional and personal development. during the 6-month
program, there were 12 meetings and 24 mentoring hours between mentors and mentees.



c. training employees
induction training: through our induction program, we familiarize our new colleagues with our
corporate principles, structure, culture (including corporate responsibility), policies and procedures.
within this context, we informed all new hired employees within 2016 about our operations and the
proper communication channels to receive further information.

training programs: as the need for qualified employees in the telecommunications industry will
continue to grow in the coming years, telekom albania implements a wide range of training programs
for its employees, either in-house or external by experienced trainers and specialized training centers
for professional training services in the ict industry. main training areas include:
  project management.
  sales & negotiation skills.
  products and services.
  human resources management.
  customer service.
  leadership.
  new technology.

within 2016:
 we conducted 33 training programs with a total duration of 5,054 hours, without however
    conducting any trainings on human rights.
 we conducted training programs on corporate responsibility issues to 12% of employees, 14% of
    managers and 2% of directors.
 the average training cost per employee was €185.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              92




                         *average training hours for 2015 have been restated.



                        we trained at least once 46.3% of our
                                     employees




t group good practice… dt group training programs
deutsche telekom group implements various training programs for its employees worldwide, such as
the exchange experience program, where employees can work from three to six months to other
companies with the dt group and share their experiences with their colleagues. since 2013, 5
employees from telekom albania have participated in this program.



5. life at work
a. handling work-life balance
indicating our commitment to maintain work-life balance and support our employees:
  we ensure that all employees receive their entitled leaves (such as paid leaves and sick leaves).
  we compensate overtime work.
  we do not force employees to work overtime, under the threat of any sanction (e.g. salary
     reduction or dismissal).
  all employees are entitled to maternity leave for childbirth and parental leave for childcare, which
     is considered and paid as working time and is available to working mothers or fathers, immediately
     the maternity leave has ended. this leave can be either working one less hour per day for two years


                                        g4-dma, g4-la2

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 93

    or taking one-year full parental leave, with men also entitled to this leave, provided that their
    spouses have not utilized the specific leave from their employer. in addition, up to four months
    parental leave is available to male employees, in order to take care of their children during the first
    six years of their child’s life.

within 2016:
 there were no complaints or grievances regarding our employees’ labour conditions.
 100% of employees received their annual leave, as initially planned.
 70% of employees worked at least once beyond the typical work hours and all overtimes were paid.
 the average overtime work was 5 hours per employee.
 all 21 women employees who received their parental or maternity leave, returned and continued
    their work within our company.
 8 women employees were granted two less working hours per day due to raising a child until they
    are 1.5 years old.

b. measuring employees’ engagement
telekom albania considers its employees’ engagement and satisfaction as necessary to enhance the
feeling of belonging to the company and create a culture that supports and builds a powerful employer
brand, in order to achieve the company’s long-term objectives. we frequently collect, analyze and
monitor our employees’ opinion through the pulse survey (conducted semi-annually), in order to
identify areas for improvement and alert management about decisions regarding potential changes,
improvements and action plans needed. survey results are communicated through the corporate
intranet and discussed in meetings held at the organizational unit level.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                            94




c. offering additional benefits
besides salary and other benefits provided by law, our company offers employees an extensive
additional benefits package to all employees, which covers the following categories. in principle, the
company grants the same benefits with minor changes between employees in management positions
and non-management positions.

      corporate responsibility report 2016                                                            95

      health and insurance:
        life insurance program.
        yearly check-up.
        one life program for all employees and two relatives.
        free orl and audiogram medical visits.
        well-being services.
        gym benefits.
      benefits at work:
        partial refunding of lunch.
        two canteens for employees in tirana.
        flexible daily work attendance.
        seniority reward – extra days of annual leave for employees with 10 or more years within the
          company.
      family benefits:
        summer camp for employees’ children.
        a christmas gift for all employees’ children up to 12 years old.
        a special end-of-the-year coupon to purchase goods in different local shops.
        additional days of leave for special cases.
        flexible leave policy for special cases.
      products and services:
        corporate mobile phones for all employees with preferential tariffs and free monthly phone traffic,
          based on their position.
        preferential post-paid and pre-paid tariffs for employee family members.
        reduced prices on mobile phones and accessories purchased through the company-owned shops.
      other benefits:
        team event and internal championship and activities, in order to balance employees’ professional
          and personal life (such as 6x6 volleyball championship, bowling championship, ping pong
          championship).
        bus service to transport employees to and from the company offices in lapraka and kashar.
        access to various socio-cultural activities, through prize draw tickets.
        cooperation with various companies to ensure preferential treatment of employees and special
          discounts for products and services.


      6. achievements 2016 and targets 2017
          we said                      progress                      we will                          by
                                                          achieve 30% of women in middle             2020
                                                          and upper management (group-
                                                          wide target).
conduct a pulse survey.                   100%            conduct two pulse surveys.                 2017
train 15% of our employees.               100%            train all new hired employees.             2017

corporate responsibility report 2016                                      96


                      vι. our environment

            reduce our environmental impact

    introduction and summary

our size:
2,255.7 tons co2
634,244 liters diesel consumption for generators
8.4 tons office paper consumption
5,250 thousand paper bags
13,683 m3 water consumption

our objective:
to successfully manage our direct and indirect environmental impact, as well as
raise our fellow citizens’ awareness to act more responsibly regarding
environmental protection.


our achievements:
- we reduced electricity consumption in our mobile network by 8.9%.
- we reduced electricity consumption in our buildings by 4%.
- we reduced our total energy consumption from diesel by 12.8%.
- we reduced our vehicles’ fuel consumption by 5.6%.
- we reduced our total carbon dioxide emissions by 11.5% (equal to 294.4 tons
  of co2).
- we reduced our total office paper consumption by 10.6%.
- we increased the quantity of total office paper recycled by 12.3%.
- we forwarded for recycling 100% of lead batteries, oil-lubricants and weee
  materials collected.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                97


1. strategy and management

      your opinion… environmental protection
according to a survey conducted to a total of 1,052 citizens in october-december 2016,         34%
                                                                                                 of
participants believe that telekom albania is the most active company related to support initiatives
related to environmental protection.



a. committing to environmental management
since 2009, telekom albania started to analyze its activities, products and services, in order to identify
and effectively reduce their environmental impact. as of 2011, the company implements an
environmental management system (ems) according to iso 14001. within this frame, we analyze our
main activities and operations regarding their environmental impact and set objectives, determine
indicators and implement initiatives, in order to improve our environmental performance.

telekom albania follows the dt group’s guidelines regarding environmental protection and uses the
ikos it-based system, which is used by all dt group companies as a data collection and reporting
system regarding environmental performance and features increased capability to conduct extensive
analyses of environmental data.



                      telekom albania environmental strategy




                      g4-14, g4-36, g4-43, g4-45, g4-dma, g4-en29, g4-en34

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 98




t group good practice… integrated climate strategy
the group has developed its integrated climate strategy on four pillars, which include the
environmental protection aspects that are closely connected with its activities and significantly influence
its business operations. the group has defined specific targets and kpis in all these pillars, in order to
systematically engage in environmental protection activities and regularly review its progress.



                                integrated climate strategy




-   co2 emissions: the group records direct and indirect co2 emissions and aims to reduce them
    through measures, which include modern building technology and office concepts, as well as
    efficient vehicle fleet and further utilize audio and video conferences to replace business trips.
-   renewable energy: the group continuously assesses ways to increase the proportion of renewable
    energy, such as purchasing guarantees of origin for energy from renewable energy sources,
    generating its own renewable energy and introducing carbon pricing.
-   energy efficiency: the group invests in modernization and energy efficiency technology in its fixed-
    fine and mobile networks, since network calls require considerable energy.
-   sustainable products: the group strives to increase the sales of products, which enable to reduce
    energy consumption and co2 emissions, as well as allow for more efficient and environmentally
    friendlier logistics.


to manage environmental aspects, telekom albania has created organizational structures, as described
in the figure below, which ensure a high level of transparency in the respective programs.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             99

                 environmental management system structure




   the ceo oversees management of environmental aspects and is assisted by a high-level
    management systems steering committee, who is responsible to approve the respective
    documentation (such as objectives and kpis) and the environmental programs to achieve these
    objectives, ems audit and performance results, as well as the necessary improvements to enhance
    the system’s effectiveness. the committee consists of the following managers from departments
    whose operations have a considerable impact on the environment, as well as anyone else deemed
    necessary depending on the issue considered:
        o the corporate affairs manager, who is the chairman of the environmental management
             system steering committee.
        o the radio & transmission engineering manager.
        o the operations & maintenance manager.
        o the procurement & logistics manager.
        o the human resources manager.
   the environmental management team supports the environmental management system steering
    committee and consists of members from selected telekom albania organizational units, who are
    responsible to:
        o continuously monitor the environmental programs’ implementation.
        o identify the environmental aspects of various activities.
        o analyze the necessary data to determine the company’s environmental performance.
        o propose remedial actions for improvement.
   furthermore, telekom albania strongly encourages employee participation in its respective
    initiatives and programs.




? did you know… climate change and environmental
protection
climate change and environmental protection are highlighted as the main future challenges and
countries and companies are seriously committed to assess the environmental aspects of their activities
and reduce their overall environmental impact. a clear demonstration of this approach was the 2016
united nations climate change conference in marrakech, morocco, where over 20,000 political leaders
and activists participated to come up with global solutions to combat climate change, as well as show
the world that the paris agreement’s implementation on ghg emissions mitigation and offset of the

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             100

global warming effects is underway. the agreement sets out a global action plan to keep the increase in
global average temperature to well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels.

according to the 2015 “smarter 2030” report by the global e-sustainability initiative (gesi), the
international strategic partnership of ict companies and industry associations, the ict sector’s ghg
emissions are expected to reach 1.27 gt eco2 (approximately 2.3% of global ghg emissions) in 2020 and
it will decrease to 1.25 gt eco2 (approximately 1.97% of global ghg emissions) by 2030. by 2030, the
adoption of ict sector’s solutions from other industries (in areas such as data collection, processing,
presentation and dissemination, as well as networking and decision making) can potentially:
-     save over 300 trillion liters of water per year, mostly from smarter agricultural practices.
-     save 25 billion barrels of oil per year.
-     remove 135 million cars from circulation worldwide.
-     have nearly 10 times higher emissions savings than the sector’s expected footprint.
-     reduce global eco2 emissions by 20%.
-     retain emissions at 2015 levels.
-     effectively decouple economic growth from emissions growth.

                            eco2 potential savings per use




                                      source: smarter 2030 report

despite the fact that telecommunication companies are considered to have a lower environmental
footprint compared to other industries, the dt group 2020 target is to reduce ghg emissions by 20%
compared to 2008, excluding t-mobile usa.



b. prioritizing environmental aspects
as part of telekom albania’s iso 14001:2004 based environmental management system, the company
systemically identifies and reviews its environmental impact and aims to improve environmental
performance, structured around the following steps:
  examine environmental aspects that can have a negative environmental impact, under three
     different scenarios: normal, abnormal and emergency situations. it must be noted that the
     company invited representatives from its customers and community to participate in this step, in

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              101

    order to ensure transparency and increase environmental awareness among its major
    stakeholders.
   determine each aspect’s significance, based on well-known criteria considered important in the
    telecommunication sector.
   design and implement programs for identified environmental aspects, which consist of an action
    plan, role and responsibilities, time schedule and targets.

through the above procedure, telekom albania addresses the following aspects, based on their
significance to its operations:



                                   environmental aspects
                                                 environmental
                       activity                                          included in the ems
                                                    aspects
                                                     energy                        √
       mobile network                            technical waste                   √
                                                       emf                         x
       support of telecommunications                 energy                        √
       operations                               hazardous waste                    √
                                                     energy                        √
                                              office waste (paper)                 √
       offices, shops, warehouses                waste disposal                    √
                                                      water                        √
                                                mobile recycling                   √
       vehicles                                      energy                        √


                         risks associated with climate change
                       risk                                    description
                                          they often result to increased energy costs, due to new
    regulation risks                      climate change regulations on national and global level,
                                             which affect almost the entire range of operations.
                                            they often affect the company’s telecommunications
                                                infrastructure, due to extreme weather events
    physical, operational and financial
                                             associated with climate change, as well as increased
    risks
                                          infrastructure expenses (e.g. need for additional cooling
                                                                  equipment).
                                             they result to potential loss of market share, due to
                                           customer reaction against companies with inadequate
    reputational risks
                                            policies regarding climate change and environmental
                                                                   protection.


c. expressing commitment to protect the environment
telekom albania’s commitment to protect the environment is also expressed in its integrated quality,
health & safety and environmental policy and is transformed into action through the development of
environmental programs described within this chapter:

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              102


    policy… telekom albania integrated quality, health &
safety and environmental policy
we, at telekom albania, inspired by our visιon, mission and strategic priorities, strive to enhance
our successful customer–oriented philosophy, our competitive positioning and the provision of
technologically advanced products and services. as a responsible corporate citizen, we aim at delivering
value to our stakeholders and believe that quality, health–safety and environment constitute crucial
concerns embedded in our company’s culture. in this context, we expect our senior management to act
as role models.

aiming at business excellence, we therefore commit ourselves to:
-   continually improving our operations and performance by setting, monitoring and reviewing our
    objectives with the intent to meet and, where possible, to exceed the expectations of our
    stakeholders.
-   acting with foresight and comply with the requirements laid down by applicable legislation, or even
    exceeding these, where we can.
-   require our personnel, and our contractors and suppliers, to actively participate in achieving our
    objectives, regarding the quality of our operations, occupational health & safety and environmental
    protection, by implementing all relevant regulations and programs adopted.
-   strive to find innovative approaches for our operations, products and services, adopting preventive
    approaches to reduce our environmental impact & pollution, and avoid potential injury and ill
    health of our personnel, partners and the general public.
-   keep the public, our personnel and our stakeholders informed on quality, environmental and
    occupational health & safety issues.
-   voluntarily protect the public through the principles and recommendations laid down in the emf
    policy, including transparency, information, participation and promotion of science.
-   fully comply with the requirements of our integrated management system and continuously
    improve its effectiveness.

                                                                                   dimitrios blatsios,
                                                                               chief executive officer


it must be noted that in 2016:
  the total expenses for electricity reached approximately €2.1 million, while expenses for all fuels
     reached €774,381 (including fuels for vehicles, bts and buildings).
  there were no complaints or grievances regarding environmental issues and no cases of non-
     compliance with environmental protection regulations.
  we did not receive any written notices by relevant authorities regarding environmental issues.
  we were not accused of violating any environmental legislation and there were no investigations or
     legal actions for non-compliance related to environmental issues.
  no relevant fines or other non-monetary sanctions were imposed during the scheduled and ad-hoc
     audits conducted by relevant authorities.


2. energy and climate change
a. measuring electricity consumption in mobile network
reducing energy consumption in mobile networks is a challenging goal for any telecommunication
company, as deployment of a growing network requires installation of new base stations (bts) and new
equipment added within the mobile network. as part of the efforts to upgrade its mobile network to
ensure optimal and fast communication for all its subscribers, especially for the 4g+ service, the
company has increased the number of bts to 538 in 2016, compared to 520 in 2015. in order to reduce
electricity consumption in its mobile network, telekom albania:



                       g4-22, g4-dma, g4-en3, g4-en15, g4-en16, g4-en30

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                               103

   has 424 bts connected in the electricity grid, compared to 416 in 2015.
   replaced old equipment (e.g. indoor rectifiers with high efficiency outdoor rectifiers) to transform
    131 sites from indoor to outdoor, which increased energy efficiency by 3% on average.
   activated hybrid operation in 10 sites to reduce total working hours with electricity from the public
    grid (see section vi-5b).

the overall amount of electricity used for our mobile network’s operation was 13,478.5 mwh in 2016,
compared to 14,797.3 mwh in 2015. the reduced electricity consumption can be mainly attributed to
the telekom network single radio access network (sran) modernization project to move from
separate installations for each radio technology to single installations with a common transport and
operational and management system, which allows the efficient use of the frequency spectrum,
simplifies network architecture and facilitates efficient shared use of hardware.




                  *electricity consumption in mobile network for 2015 has been restated.




                    we reduced electricity consumption in our
                            mobile network by 8.9%

b. measuring electricity consumption in buildings
as every company, we also consume electricity in our buildings (which include our offices and data
centers) and therefore strive to reduce this impact through programs, as we:
  enabled power saving mode in all desktop computers to shut down after a certain idle time, except
    for a few computers operating continuously.
  installed a smart automation feature to centrally control the office air-conditioning system.
  initiated the pilot operation of an hvac centralized intelligent controller in one of our buildings.
  invested over €20,000 to install window sun protection films in three buildings in lapraka and
    kashar, as well as two pilot shops, in order to minimize uv radiation risks, improve working
    conditions and increase energy efficiency.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             104

   replaced the existing lighting systems with energy efficient led lighting.
   installed led outdoor lighting in our premises in lapraka.
   utilized desktop virtualization technology and installed 300 thin clients (terminals with fewer
    hardware components and lower energy requirements).
   enabled turning off idle servers and platforms inside our data centers (e.g. dns servers).
   replaced 6 air-conditioning units in data centers and installed higher efficiency rectifier and ups
    units in two data centers.
   implemented an employee awareness campaign to reduce energy consumption, which included
    posters in company premises, e-mail sent to all employees and information posted on intranet.




in 2016, energy consumption in our offices and data centers was approximately 4,719.6 mwh,
compared to 4,919.4 mwh in 2015, while:
  electricity consumption per employee was approximately 10,775.3 kwh.
  electricity consumption per m² in our offices was 220 kwh, compared to 162 kwh in 2015.

  corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                       105




            *electricity consumption in buildings for 2016 includes offices, data centers and 17 own shops.
 **electricity consumption in buildings for 2015 has been restated; includes offices, data centers and 18 own shops.
***electricity consumption for 2014 and 2013 includes offices, data centers and warehouses in lapraka and kashar, as
                                              well as an own shop in lapraka.



                         we reduced electricity consumption in our
                                     buildings by 4%

  c. measuring diesel consumption
  we use diesel generators to produce electricity in cases electricity supply via the public energy providers
  is infeasible for periods of time or as the main electricity supply in isolated areas where grid connection
  is difficult or impossible.

  in 2016, the total diesel consumption reached 634,244 lt (631,244 lt from generators in mobile network
  and 3,000 lt from generators in buildings), which corresponds to 6,340 mwh (6,310 mwh in mobile
  network and 30 mwh in buildings), compared to 7,276 mwh in 2015. in order to reduce diesel
  consumption within 2016, the company:
    switched off stand-by generators in 36 sites.
    constructed medium voltage power lines for 3 sites and transformed them to sites with stand-by
       generators, instead of 24-hour continuously operating generators.
    activated hybrid operation in 10 sites to reduce total working hours from stand-by generators (see
       section vi-5b).

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                           106




the overall decrease in diesel consumption is mainly the result of the reduced use of generators to
produce electricity, as they were used less frequently due to fewer power disruptions compared to
2015.



                we reduced our total energy consumption from
                              diesel by 12.8%

d. reducing transportation impact from vehicle fleet
our company operates a number of vehicles, which are used to service and develop telekom albania’s
telecommunication network, distributes its products and service its customers throughout the country.
in order to reduce the impact of this activity, we:
  apply a system to monitor vehicle routes.
  regularly service the entire vehicle fleet to ensure compliance with the manufacturers’ technical
     standards.
  gradually replace company-owned vehicles with leased vehicles, which are newer and have lower
     energy consumption.
  utilize a private-licensed contractor to daily transport employees to and from the company’s
     headquarters.
  operate our own mini-bus to transport employees working on shifts at company offices.
  encourage rational use of company vehicles through a vehicle-sharing platform via the intranet for
     vehicles used by non-managerial employees, which applies to all employees, except sales
     employees, who use company vehicles on a daily basis due to their activities.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             107




# benchmarks… employee commuting
telekom albania is the third best company within deutsche telekom group for employee commuting by
car, the ninth best company for commuting by public transport, the third best company for commuting
with by foot and by bike, and the ninth best company for commuting with other means of
transportation (averages for dt group are 48%, 31%, 12% and 9% respectively).


in 2016:
  we operated a service fleet of 56 vehicles (53 diesel vehicles and 3 gasoline vehicles) and a
     company fleet of 33 vehicles (25 diesel vehicles and 8 unleaded vehicles), compared to 51 and 26
     vehicles respectively in 2015.
  we use 11 owned vehicles and 78 leased vehicles, compared to 44 and 33 respectively in 2015.
  our service cars consumed 87,972 lt of fuel (80,091 lt diesel and 7,881 lt of gasoline) and our
     company cars consumed 29,484 lt of fuel (9,339 lt diesel and 20,145 lt gasoline).
  our vehicles consumed in total 117,456 lt of fuel, compared to 124,434 lt in 2015, which resulted in
     an average consumption of 7.1 lt per 100 km, compared to approximately 7.8 lt per 100 km in 2015.



                                          vehicle fleet
                                                            2013       2014      2015        2016
 total vehicles (number)                                      77         58        77          89
 energy consumption from vehicle fleet (mwh)                 1,741     1,272     1,213       1,189
 fuel consumption (lt)                                      178,245   131,406   124,434     117,456
                                                diesel (lt) 49,831     21,473    32,225      89,430
                                              gasoline (lt) 128,414   109,933    92,209      28,026
 average fuel consumption per vehicle (lt)                   2,314     2,266     1,599      1,319.7
 average fuel consumption per vehicle per 100 km (lt)         8.7       10.2      7.8         7.1
 vehicle distance (thousand km)                              2,050     1,290     1,575      1,653.4
                   service diesel vehicles (thousand km)      nr         nr        nr       1,228.7
                 service gasoline vehicles (thousand km)      nr         nr        nr         74.7
                 company diesel vehicles (thousand km)        nr         nr        nr        183.5

    corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                          108

                 company gasoline vehicles (thousand km)                nr            nr             nr       166.5
     average distance per vehicle (thousand km)                        26.6          22.2           20.6      18.6
                                                    nr: not reported



                        we reduced our vehicles’ fuel consumption by
                                           5.6%

    e. reducing other transportation impact
    telekom albania strives to reduce the impact of business operations on climate change and commits to
    limit transportation impact due to business travel to the minimum necessary. therefore, we:
      use plane transportation only when travelling to other countries.
      utilize teleconference in company offices (audio conferences are available in most offices and there
          are two facilities for video conferences in the company’s headquarters in lapraka).
      strive to resolve as many issues as possible (such as technical issues, telephone directions and
          connection issues) by phone.



                               transportation for business purposes
                                                                              2015           2016
                         total distance (km)                        358,667                384,168
                                            distance by plane (km) 354,827                 381,693
                                             distance by train (km)  1,760                  1,064
                                              distance by bus (km)   2,080                  1,411


    f. measuring ghg emissions
    for telekom albania, total emissions of carbon dioxide (both direct and indirect emissions) reached
    2,255.7 tons in 2016.

                                                  ghg emissions
                                                                       2013          2014       2015          2016
     direct emissions (scope 1)
     emissions from fossil fuels (tons)                                2,289         2,020      1,986         1,691
     emissions from vehicle fleet (tons)                                427           309        297           301
     indirect emissions (scope 2) (tons)
     emissions from electricity (tons)                                  126           78            140        127
     other indirect emissions (scope 3) (tons)
     emissions from flights (tons)                                      86         165.6         127.1        136.7
     total (scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3) (tons)                       2,928      2,572.6       2,550.1      2,255.7
data for 2016 refer to our mobile network, offices, data centers and 17 own shops, as well as the entire vehicle fleet and
                                                flights for business purposes.
calculations complied with the greenhouse gas (ghg) protocol and were based on emission factors by the international
    energy agency (iea) and/or the ghg protocol calculation tools; source of conversion factor for flights in 2016: act for
                                     climate carbon footprint calculator (first climate)



                       we reduced our total carbon dioxide emissions
                           by 11.5% (equal to 294.4 tons of co2)

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             109




# benchmarks… renewable energy
telekom albania is the best company within deutsche telekom group for proportion of renewable
energy in the national energy mix with 100% from renewable energy sources (average for dt group is
23%).




t group good practice… renewable energy
the group has indicated renewable energy as one of the four main pillars of its climate strategy, since
energy from renewable energy sources increases energy efficiency and reduces electricity consumption
and greenhouse gas emissions. as part of its strategy, the group has established targets and strategies
related to renewable energy and:
-    encourages its european national companies to exceed the share of renewable energy in their total
     electricity consumption by at least 10% compared to the national energy mix. it must be noted that
     the group’s national companies achieved a 33% of electricity consumption from renewable energy
     sources in 2016.
-    has introduced parameters to assess electricity procurement in terms of sustainability.
-    has installed solar power units in 311 switching centers in germany, which reduce co2 emissions by
     1,510 metric tons each year.



3. raw materials and waste
a. consuming raw materials
at telekom albania we try to follow the principle “reduce – reuse – recycle” and therefore implement
various approaches, depending on the type of materials:


                              g4-dma, g4-en2, g4-en23, g4-en25

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                  110

   we monitor materials used.
   we reduce materials used.
   we reuse materials used.
   we recycle materials used.
   we properly dispose materials produced.

telekom albania has entered into contracts to recover and/or recycle used, faulty and end-of-life
products and materials. the company only utilizes licensed contractors and certified waste management
companies, in order to ensure that waste management is conducted in accordance with the respective
legal provisions and international practices. all waste (including hazardous waste) is stored locally in our
contractors’ premises, until their quantities become feasible for transport, while there was no waste
shipped abroad during 2016.

b. using environmentally friendlier bags
we recognize the significant repercussions of plastic bags on the environment and we only use paper
bags and biodegradable bags in all of our shops, made of polyethylene with reverted technology, which
degrade after a few years if not recycled completely.

                                                  bags
                                                                         2015          2016
            plastic bags (units)                                           0            0
            biodegradable bags (units)                                   50,000       88,100
            paper bags (units)                                           15,000       5,250



c. managing paper and plastic use and recycling
we use office paper and plastic for various purposes, such as billing
and promotional and communication campaigns and materials. in the
last years, we have implemented various initiatives to reduce office
paper and plastic consumption, as we:
  offer free e-billing solutions to all customers and employees.
  have embedded a paper saving message in the official e-mail
     signature of all company employees.
  electronically exchange documentation, such as offers, purchase
     orders, contracts, qualification documentation and surveys.
  have made our cr reports available only in electronic form since
     2011.
  have developed an internal e-mail communication policy.
  use only centralized printers (one per each floor in each building).
  have set two-sided printing as the default printing option for all
     employees since 2014.
  offer pre-paid customers the option to charge their accounts with
     e-vouchers and encourages its customers to do so, through bonus
     airtime to those who select this option.
  implement internal awareness campaigns to reduce paper
     consumption and increase recycling of waste paper, which were
     effectively communicated to all employees within 2016.
  implement the documents retention project, during which we
     review certain very old documents and recycle them, if not needed
     anymore.
  implement a plastic recycling program in our headquarters and
     warehouse, as well as our own shops, through which we gathered

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                            111

    and recycled 270 kg of plastic within 2016, compared to 275 kg in 2015, which corresponds to over
    0.6 kg per employee.
   do not use, at the moment, recycled paper or any other recycled materials.




                we reduced our total office paper consumption
                                  by 10.6%


                 we increased the quantity of total office paper
                               recycled by 12.3%

d. implementing responsible special waste management
hazardous waste: we recognize the substantial or potential threats that hazardous waste may pose to
public health or the environment and we consider its management as a highly important issue. as a
result, we implement recycling programs for the following types of waste:
  lead batteries, which are installed in many bts and are activated in case of electricity supply
     interruptions. batteries are replaced when their life span has expired, as lead is a hazardous
     material for the environment.
  oil-lubricants, which are used in generators located in bts and partially in office buildings. we
     cooperate with a licensed company to collect and forward for recycling the entire quantity of the
     rejected lubricants during generator maintenance.
  oil and air filters.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                           112

                                   hazardous waste recycled
                                                          2013           2014            2015          2016
    lead batteries (tons)                                 120.7           26             45.6           11.4
    lead batteries recycled (%)                            100            100            100            100
    oil-lubricants (thousand lt)                           7.6            4.5              6            3.5
    oil-lubricants recycled (%)                            100            100            100            100
    oil filters (units)                                   1,803          1,076          3,404*          880
    air filters (units)                                   1,803          1,076             -             nr
                            *number of oil filters in 2015 also includes air filters.
                                              nr: not reported


technical waste: the daily operations of all telecommunication companies generate different types of
technical waste. these include:
  waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee), such as end-of-life electronics and electrical
    devices, which are forwarded for recycling.
  accumulators, which are used as energy storage devices. before forwarding them to recycle, we
    test them to determine their operational status during their storage in our warehouse upon de-
    commissioning.
  mobile phones, batteries and accessories, for which we introduced a new recycling program in
    2014, with collection points in company offices in lapraka and kashar, as well as in own shops for
    all employees and customers. it must be noted that telekom albania is the only company in albania
    with a recycling program for mobile phones, batteries and accessories.

                                   technical waste recycled
                                            2013           2014               2015                     2016
telecommunication equipment
                                              0.7            1.5               59.1                    25.3
(weee and accumulators) (tons)
weee materials recycled (%)                  100            100               100                       100
                                                                              100                       100
accumulators recycled (%)                    100            100
                                                                           (45.6 tons)               (3.9 tons)
                                                                                                        27.5
                                                                                                (additional 2.3 tons
it equipment (kg)                             nr             nr               4,100
                                                                                                 are collected, but
                                                                                                 not yet recycled)
                                                                               1.6
                                                                         (additional 1.6
mobiles, batteries and accessories                                      tons of company
                                              nr             nr                                         1.6
collected from citizens (kg)                                              owned faulty
                                                                          devices were
                                                                            recycled)
                                              nr: not reported

it must be noted that we donate outdated hardware used in company offices (such as computers,
printers, monitors and other peripherals) to schools, institutions and ngos. in 2016, we donated one
server to an organization, compared to 24 units in 2015.



                     we forwarded for recycling 100% of lead
                    batteries, oil-lubricants and weee materials
                                       collected

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                113


4. electromagnetic fields
a. following the precautionary principle
the potential effect of electromagnetic fields (emf) on the human health has been the subject of
extensive international research studies. telekom albania complies with the limits set by the
international commission on non-ionizing radiation protection (icnirp) and recommended by the
world health organization (who) for transmitter antennas and mobile phones, which have been
included with the relevant legislative framework. these organizations utilize the current scientific
knowledge to repeatedly review the current limits and have confirmed the safe use of mobile
technology, as the general scientific consensus is that there are no health risks associated with exposure
to electromagnetic fields emitted by antennas and mobile phones below international standards.



      policy… electromagnetic fields
indicating our commitment to address the genuine public interest in the mobile communication
technology, we have developed the respective emf policy, through which we:
-    establish internal responsibilities and flows of activities to handle any complaints and enquiries on
     technology, health and other related issues.
-    support the establishment of a national database on locations with emf emissions.
-    comply with the national safe exposure guidelines and the icnirp’s guidelines regarding emf for all
     our bts and provide all the necessary data to indicate our compliance to any interested party.
-    cooperate with our stakeholders, in order to inform the general public and encourage local
     authorities to cooperate with mobile operators in relevant programs.
-    provide the manufacturers’ information on sar values for their mobile devices to our customers,
     through our website and shops.
-    cooperate with local authorities to handle enquiries from citizens related to network development.
-    fully support improvement of scientific knowledge regarding any emf impacts to the public health.
-    continuously evaluate scientific data ourselves.


it must be noted that we conduct scheduled and ad-hoc emf radiation measurements by specialized
employees. during 2016, we conducted 4 emf measurements (all of which were scheduled), while no
cases of radiation levels exceeding the national and internationally recognized limits were found.

b. informing fellow citizens on emf
we continuously try to identify ways in which citizens can be informed regarding how mobile telephony
functions, in order to ensure that everyone can have access to credible and accurate information. for
this reason, we publish detailed information on our corporate website for all citizens.

during 2016, we continued our information campaign to correctly inform and improve the perception of
our stakeholders regarding mobile telephony technology and its relation to health. within this context,
we provide documented materials on our website to correct information regarding mobile telephony to
citizens and customers. furthermore, we:
  trade only mobile phones that comply with the defined sar exposure limits.
  display the sar value of every mobile phone sold in telekom albania shops in its respective price-
      tag.
  provide information to reduce sar exposure in the corporate website.

furthermore, during 2011-2014, the company supported a project of the polytechnic university of
tirana, faculty of it, to measure and publish the electromagnetic emissions in critical spots located
within high density populated areas (such as hospitals and schools). within this context, measurements
were performed in over 80 locations close to company’s bts in the main cities of albania, which
indicated that emissions for all company’s bts are significantly lower than the icnirp’ limits.


                                      g4-14, g4-15, g4-dma

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                             114




? did you know… specific absorption rate
mobile telephony functions are based on the emission of electromagnetic waves. every mobile phone
emits radio frequency electromagnetic energy, which can be measured through the specific absorption
rate (sar) in watts per kilogram of body weight (w/kg). the sar value of a mobile phone indicates the
maximum degree to which the head may absorb electromagnetic fields during a phone call with the
device.

since 1999, the eu council has set a maximum limit of 2 w/kg for cell and smart phones, which applies
to all european countries. all manufacturers are required to check and ensure that they comply with the
limit value even at maximum transmission power for all phones and disclose the maximum values
measured as “sar value” in their product manuals or user operating guides. in order to reduce their
overall exposure, persons can keep their mobile device away from the head and body, through:
-     using an earpiece (wired or bluetooth).
-     using the loudspeaker function, including video calls.
-     placing the device on a surface when sending data.
-     texting instead of calling.



5. other impacts
telekom albania’s environmental strategy includes monitoring of its performance related to a wide
range of relevant aspects, in order to implement respective programs.

a. assessing our visual impact
despite telecommunications having a relatively small visual impact on the environment compared to
other industries and sectors, we apply a number of practices such as:
  we build new bts with smaller size compared to the old construction design.
  we locate bts in installations in cooperation with the other mobile telephony companies. within
    2016, we increased the number of bts shared with another operator to 123, compared to 119 in
    2015.
  we perform the necessary modifications to the existing telecommunication infrastructure.


b. assessing our noise impact
the noise impact of telekom albania is insignificant, since:
  our buildings are located within urban areas.
  we use generators in buildings only in cases of electricity failure.
  bts powered by electricity have very low noise levels and bts using generators are located in
    remote areas.
  in urban areas, we use “closed type power generator systems”, with noise levels of 64db at 7m
    distance, while we use “open type power generator systems” in rural areas, with noise levels of
    105db at 7m distance, which comply with the respective legislative provisions.
  in cases where sound levels from generators should be reduced, we install noise isolation or hybrid
    systems, in order to reduce their operating time and reduce or eliminate the noise. within 2016,
    we activated hybrid operation of power supply unit (psu) systems to 10 bts, increasing their
    number to 12 stations.

c. assessing our impact on biodiversity
the influence of our activities on biodiversity is insignificant, however, we take this important
environmental issue into consideration, as our company:




                g4-dma, g4-en8, g4-en9, g4-en10, g4-en11, g4-en12, g4-en14,
                                g4-en22, g4-en24, g4-en26

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 115

   has not placed any of its facilities and operation sites near protected natura or ramsar areas or
    near other areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. as a result, there are no iucn
    red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations.
   builds bts with the least possible repercussions on environment.
   conducts environmental impact studies for bts, in order to identify the potential impacts of bts
    construction on the natural environment.
   ensures that bts located outside populated areas have small surface requirements and the land is
    reverted to its previous condition prior to bts installation or the installation is left for the owner’s
    use upon request, after the bts has been de-commissioned.
   do not generally staff its bts on a permanent basis and ensures limited transportation activities to
    these sites.
   restores potential negative repercussion, which our offices and bts might have on the ecosystems.

it should be mentioned, that according to law no. 8990/23.1.2003 “for environmental assessment”, an
environmental impact study approved by state authorities has to retroactively accompany every mobile
telephony bts antennas in albania. our company complies with the respective provisions and all of its
bts are licensed by the relevant authorities, as authorized by the national ministry of environment.

d. monitoring water consumption
we consume water solely for our employees’ hygiene, watering of plants and cleaning of work areas.
water scarcity is highlighted as an extremely important environmental aspect, due to intensification of
needs and demand for this precious resource during the last years. our company is aware of its relative
scarcity and therefore strives to reduce water consumption, where feasible.
  water supply is performed exclusively from public water suppliers, who are also responsible for the
     sustainable withdrawal from the water resource system; therefore, we do not affect other water
     sources.
  bottles of drinking water are available for all employees and
     guests.
  we implemented an internal awareness campaign to reduce
     water consumption, which was communicated to all employees
     within 2016.
  all wastewater is directed to urban wastewater treatment plants
     through the sewerage system and is treated in the municipality
     wastewater facilities.
  at the moment, we do not recycle or reuse water for our
     operations.
  no water leakages were noticed, nor are other water sources
     affected due to operations.
  there were no planned or unplanned water discharges and no
     significant spills of chemicals or fuels or any other material.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                116




             *water consumption refers to the company’s main buildings in lapraka and kashar.



e. monitoring our impact on the ozone layer
we use refrigerants in our premises, shops and bts in the fire suppression system (which utilizes fm
200, a fire suppression agent from carbon, fluorine and hydrogen – cf3chfcf3), fire extinguishers (which
utilize co2) and the air-conditioning systems. during 2016, the total quantity of fm 200 stored in all
three telekom albania buildings and telekom sites reached 11,756 kg, while there were no fire incidents
in our premises and our bts.

f. promoting environmental awareness
employee awareness: we recognize the importance of employee awareness about the environment,
and therefore strive to adopt environmentally responsible behaviour within the workplace. to achieve
this, we implement internal awareness campaigns to reduce water and energy consumption, as well to
promote the importance of recycling. at the same time, we have placed recycling bins in our offices and
own shops, so that paper and plastic may be collected separately.

furthermore, telekom albania started a project to redesign and upgrade the komuna e parisit park in
tirana, which is a multi-generational recreation amenity in one of tirana’s most crowded
neighborhoods. within this context, we planted over 1,000 trees, landscaped the park’s green areas and
installed new benches.

public awareness: besides our standing objective to reduce our own environmental footprint, we also
aim to increase our customers’ awareness to reduce their own environmental footprint. therefore, we
inform, sensitize and encourage participation of the general public through systematic initiatives. within
this context, we rolled out the “green tirana” 4-week project for students 15 to 18 years old, in
cooperation with the non-profit organization aiesec, in order to instill a culture of environmental
protection and recycling. approximately 100 high school students in tirana participated in the project
and learned about environmental problems, their causes and effects, as well as solutions to mitigate
their impact.

       corporate responsibility report 2016                                        117


       6. achievements 2016 and targets 2017
           we said                    progress             we will                 by
                                                 reduce co2 emissions throughout   2020
                                                 the group by 20%, compared to
                                                 2008 (group-wide target).
extent use of new environmentally       100%     continue to use new               2017
friendlier technological solutions.              environmentally friendlier
                                                 technologies.
reduce energy consumption per           0%
m² in our buildings by 1%.
reduce co2 emissions from               100%
operations by 2%.
reduce paper consumption in our         100%     reduce paper consumption in our   2017
offices by 3%.                                   offices by 3%.
recycle 100% of weee materials          100%     recycle 100% of weee materials    2017
withdrawn.                                       withdrawn.
recycle 100% of accumulators            100%     recycle 100% of accumulators      2017
withdrawn.                                       withdrawn.
recycle 100% of oil-lubricants          100%     recycle 100% of oil-lubricants    2017
withdrawn.                                       withdrawn.
plant 100 trees to increase size of     100%     contribute to an environment-     2017
green areas.                                     related initiative.
organize/participate in                 0%       develop information material on   2017
safety/security event about emf.                 emf.
introduce a new environmentally         0%
friendlier product/service.

         corporate responsibility report 2016                                          118


                   c. information about the report

         1. summary table
           : completion (100%)

           : under completion (75%)

           : progress (50%)

           : off plan (25%)

           : not achieved (0%)

                                                          objective     progress       objective
     indicator            2014       2015       2016
                                                            2016          2016           2017
our strategy &
management

our objective is to
incorporate
responsibility into our
business operations
and daily
management
activities, as well as
create measurable
and tangible results to
create value for our
stakeholders.

gri indicators in the     76 + 22    22 + 0     68 + 21               we quadrupled
report (number – full +                                               the number of
partially)                                                            gri indicators
                                                                      and increased
                                                                      by 12.2% the
                                                                      number of
                                                                      quantitative
                                                                      indicators we
                                                                      make reference
                                                                      to within the
                                                                      report.
quantitative indicators       190     205        230
in the report (number)

          corporate responsibility report 2016                                                 119

quantitative targets in     27         20        24    conduct a                           conduct a
the report (number)                                    customer or                         customer or
                                                       public based                        public-based
                                                       survey on                           survey on
                                                       corporate                           corporate
                                                       responsibility                      responsibility
                                                       topics.                             topics, based on
                                                                                           best practices of
                                                                                           dt group.
complaints regarding         0          0         0                      no violation
violations of our code                                                   cases
of conduct (number)                                                      concerning our
                                                                         code of
                                                                         conduct
                                                                         occurred.
                                                                         we have
                                                                         communicated
                                                                         our code of
                                                                         conduct to
                                                                         100% of our
                                                                         employees.
                                                                         we trained 88%
                                                                         of employees
                                                                         (100% of new
                                                                         hired
                                                                         employees) on
                                                                         compliance
                                                                         policies.
employees trained on       213         185       110                     we trained 110
anti-corruption                                                          employees on
(number)                                                                 anti-corruption
                                                                         issues and
                                                                         procedures.
corruption incidents         0          0         0                      we had no
(number)                                                                 incidents of
                                                                         corruption.
                                                       integrate         we had no non-    integrate the
                                                       quality,          conformities      supporting
                                                       occupational      from audits       structures and
                                                       health & safety   regarding the     management
                                                       and               operation of      programs related
                                                       environment       management        to the quality,
                                                       management        systems.          occupational
                                                       systems.                            health & safety
                                                                                           and environment
                                                                                           management
                                                                                           systems.
                                                                                           integrate the
                                                                                           internal audit
                                                                                           plan.
                                                                                           integrate the ims
                                                                                           processes and
                                                                                           procedures.

         corporate responsibility report 2016                                                    120

                                                       successfully                          implement two
                                                       certify our bcm                       awareness
                                                       system by an                          sessions related
                                                       independent                           to business
                                                       auditor, in order                     continuity.
                                                       to comply with
                                                       the iso22301
                                                       standard.
                                                                                             organize one
                                                                                             wide rehearsal,
                                                                                             two evacuation
                                                                                             drills and one dt
                                                                                             group
                                                                                             international
                                                                                             crisis exercise, in
                                                                                             order to test our
                                                                                             business
                                                                                             continuity plans
                                                                                             and strategies.
                                                                                             ensure that
                                                                                             appropriate
                                                                                             parties have
                                                                                             received updated
                                                                                             business
                                                                                             continuity
                                                                                             documentation.
our customers &
suppliers

our objective is to
develop products and
services which are
safe and correspond
to the needs of our
customers, as well as
facilitate the
responsible operation
of the markets where
we conduct our
business.

population coverage (%)   99.8        99.8      99.8                       we reduced our
                                                                           data drop rate
                                                                           on both 4g and
                                                                           4g+ by 19%.
territory coverage (%)    92.5        92.5      92.5
customer base (million)   2.06        1.73      1.84                       our customer      deploy ip
                                                                           satisfaction      multimedia
                                                                           index increased   subsystem (ims)
                                                                           by 4.6% in        core technology
                                                                           q4’16,            to support volte

          corporate responsibility report 2016                                                     121

                                                                           compared to         (voice over long-
                                                                           base results.       term evolution).
                                                                           our quality
                                                                           index for
                                                                           customer care
                                                                           services from
                                                                           main contact
                                                                           points increased
                                                                           by 31.5% in
                                                                           q4’16,
                                                                           compared to
                                                                           base results.
market share (%)             39        37.3       38
fines for anti-               0         0          0
competitive behaviour
(number, value)
complaints received by      7,084     8,452      5,671                     the number of
customers (number)                                                         received
                                                                           complaints
                                                                           decreased by
                                                                           32.9%.
complaints resolved         88.8       74.4       93     handle 85% of     we increased        handle 95% of
within 5 days (%)                                        complaints        the percentage      complaints
                                                         related to        of complaints       related to
                                                         customer          resolved within     customer service
                                                         service in less   5 days to 93%.      in less than 5
                                                         than 5 days.                          days.



average time to resolve      4.2       2.7        2.2
complaints (days)
incidents related to         nr         0         0                        we had no           develop
privacy issues or loss of                                                  incidents           information
personal data (number)                                                     regarding           material on safer
                                                                           customer            internet and
                                                                           privacy issues or   secure online
                                                                           loss of personal    experience.
                                                                           data.
                                                                           we successfully     develop an
                                                                           blocked             information
                                                                           1,803,860           leaflet about the
                                                                           internet security   risks associated
                                                                           threats and         with internet
                                                                           urls.               access and the
                                                                                               required actions
                                                                                               to protect
                                                                                               children.
suppliers (number)           nr        nr        120
procurement expenses         nr        nr        20
to local suppliers (%)

          corporate responsibility report 2016                                                        122

our society

our objective is to
combine our business
success, with
prosperity and quality
of life, for citizens in
local communities we
conduct our business
in.

revenues (million €)        81.5       82.6       77.2
ebitda (million €)          29.8       20.6       16.1
capital expenditures         nr         nr        16.2
(million €)
total taxes (including       nr        nr          2.1                         we distributed
vat) (million €)                                                               over €100
                                                                               million in
                                                                               economic value:
                                                                               over €6.7
                                                                               million to
                                                                               employees, €2.1
                                                                               million for
                                                                               taxes, €79.2
                                                                               million to
                                                                               suppliers, €0.1
                                                                               million to
                                                                               society and
                                                                               €12.6 million for
                                                                               investments.
payments to suppliers        nr        nr         79.2
(million €)
cost of employees            nr        nr          6.7
(including salaries,
benefits and insurance
payments) (million €)
investments (million €)      nr        nr         12.6
value of social            110,900   194,537     121,637   support                                 provide medical
contribution (€)                                           equipment or                            equipment to
                                                           rehabilitation of                       health
                                                           a health                                institutions.
                                                           centre/hospital.
                                                           organize an
                                                           awareness
                                                           campaign to
                                                           support children
                                                           in need.
people supported            1,035     5,833       7,438                        we increased
through social                                                                 the number of
contribution activities                                                        people
(estimated) (number)                                                           supported
                                                                               through our

          corporate responsibility report 2016                                                123

                                                                         social
                                                                         contribution
                                                                         activities by
                                                                         27.5%.
students in internship      nr         32        31    offer job         we provided
programs (number)                                      practices to at   internships to
                                                       least 20          63 students in
                                                       students          the last two
                                                       studying in       years.
                                                       albanian
                                                       universities.

volunteer activities         1          7         2    organize four                      organize a
(number)                                               volunteer                          volunteer activity
                                                       activities.                        to support an
                                                                                          institution
                                                                                          dedicated to
                                                                                          children, with the
                                                                                          participation of
                                                                                          50 volunteer
                                                                                          employees.
volunteer employees         35          0        48
(number)
working hours allocated     80          0        63                      the total time
to employee volunteer                                                    allocated to
activities (number)                                                      volunteer
                                                                         activities
                                                                         reached 63
                                                                         working hours.
our employees

our objective is to
create a work
environment, which
ensures long-term
career opportunities
and facilitates our
employees’
development.

employees (number)         452         446       438
employees with full        100         100       100                     we employ
time employment                                                          100% of our
contracts (%)                                                            employees with
                                                                         full time
                                                                         employment
                                                                         contracts.
women employees (%)         60         61        63                      we maintained
                                                                         the percentage
                                                                         of women
                                                                         employees to
                                                                         over 60% of

         corporate responsibility report 2016                                                     124

                                                                           total workforce.
women employees in         52.4       49.2       67                        we increased       achieve 30% of
middle level manager                                                       the percentage     women in middle
position (%)                                                               of women in        and upper
                                                                           middle level       management by
                                                                           manager            2020 (group-wide
                                                                           position and       target).
                                                                           director
                                                                           position to 67%
                                                                           and 33%
                                                                           respectively.
training hours on health   1,344     1,043      1,089                      we increased
and safety issues                                                          health and
(number)                                                                   safety training
                                                                           hours by 4.4%.
work-related accidents      0          0         0                         we had no
(number)                                                                   accidents within
                                                                           our workplace.
fatal accidents             0          0         0
(number)
injury rate (rate)          0          0         0
discrimination incidents    0          0         0
(number)
difference of lowest       +105      +105       +105                       our lowest
employee salary to legal                                                   employee salary
basic salary (%)                                                           is 105% higher
                                                                           than the legal
                                                                           basic salary.
permanent job openings      35        nr         12
covered by internal
candidates (%)
employees trained           66        67        203     train 15% of our   we trained at      train all new
(number)                                                employees.         least once         hired employees.
                                                                           46.3% of our
                                                                           employees.




average training hours     15.6       5.5       11.5
(hours/employee)
employee satisfaction       93        93         92     conduct a pulse                       conduct two
rate (%)                                                survey.                               pulse surveys.



employees with             100        100       100                        we assessed
performance appraisals                                                     100% of
(%)                                                                        applicable
                                                                           employees.
our environment

our objective is to
successfully manage

         corporate responsibility report 2016                                                       125

our direct and indirect
environmental
impact, as well as
raise our fellow
citizens’ awareness to
act more responsibly
regarding
environmental
protection.

total co2 emissions        2,572.6   2,550.1    2,255.7    reduce co2         we reduced our     reduce co2
(tons)                                                     emissions from     total carbon       emissions
                                                           operations by      dioxide            throughout the
                                                           2%.                emissions by       group by 20%,
                                                                              11.5% (equal to    compared to
                                                                              294.4 tons of      2008, by 2020
                                                                              co2).              (group-wide
                                                                                                 target).



total electricity          19,432    19,716.7   18,198.1                      we reduced
consumption (mwh)                                                             electricity
                                                                              consumption in
                                                                              our mobile
                                                                              network by
                                                                              8.9%.
                                                           reduce energy      we reduced
                                                           consumption        electricity
                                                           per m² in our      consumption in
                                                           buildings by 1%.   our buildings by
                                                                              4%.




total energy               7,571      7,276      6,340                        we reduced our
consumption from                                                              total energy
diesel (mwh)                                                                  consumption
                                                                              from diesel by
                                                                              12.8%.
fuel consumption from      131.4      124.4      117.4                        we reduced our
vehicles (thousand lt)                                                        vehicles’ fuel
                                                                              consumption by
                                                                              5.6%.
transportation distance    1,290      1,575     1,653.4
from vehicle fleet
(thousand km)
average fuel               2,266      1,599     1,319.7
consumption (lt/vehicle)
consumption of               nr      50,000     88,100
biodegradable bags
(number)

         corporate responsibility report 2016                                                     126

consumption of paper       nr        15,000     5,250
bags (number)
office paper               4.2        9.4        8.4     reduce paper       we reduced our    reduce paper
consumption (tons)                                       consumption in     total office      consumption in
                                                         our offices by     paper             our offices by 3%.
                                                         3%.                consumption by
                                                                            10.6%.




office paper recycled      2.8        6.5        7.3                        we increased
(tons)                                                                      the quantity of
                                                                            total office
                                                                            paper recycled
                                                                            by 12.3%.
plastic recycled (kg)      nr         275        270
hazardous waste (tons)     26         45.6       11.4    recycle 100% of    we forwarded      recycle 100% of
                                                         oil-lubricants     for recycling     oil-lubricants
                                                         withdrawn.         100% of lead      withdrawn.
                                                                            batteries, oil-
                                                                            lubricants and
                                                                            weee materials
                                                                            collected.




non-hazardous             1.56        59.1       25.3                                         recycle 100% of
                                                         recycle 100% of
technical waste from                                                                          weee materials
                                                         weee materials
telecommunication                                                                             withdrawn.
                                                         withdrawn.
operations (tons)
                                                                                              recycle 100% of
                                                         recycle 100% of                      accumulators
                                                         accumulators                         withdrawn.
                                                         withdrawn.

total phones and           nr       1,601.6      1.6
accessories recycled
(kg)
water consumption        13,073      12,122     13,683
(m3)
                                                         extent use of                        continue to use
                                                         new                                  new
                                                         environmentally                      environmentally
                                                         friendlier                           friendlier
                                                         technological                        technologies.
                                                         solutions.
                                                         plant 100 trees                      contribute to an
                                                         to increase size                     environment-
                                                         of green areas.                      related initiative.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                   127

                                                 organize/          develop
                                                 participate in     information
                                                 safety/security    material on emf.
                                                 event about
                                                 emf.
                                                 introduce a new
                                                 environmentally
                                                 friendlier
                                                 product/service.
                                       nr: not reported

 corporate responsibility report 2016                                                          128


 2. gri context index, global compact, sdg and iso26000
 tables
 the correspondence between the content of this report and the global reporting initiative’s (gri g4
 version 2013) general and specific standard disclosures, including the respective telecommunications
 sector supplement, as well as the global compact principles, the sustainable development goals and
 the iso26000 international guidelines, is presented in the following tables.
   general standard disclosures of gri required for “core” option are indicated in grey background.
   material aspects of gri for the organization (based on the materiality analysis conducted), are
      indicated in grey background.
   boundaries of gri indicators are indicated on the table.
   no external assurance has been conducted for the material aspects.


                                        gri content index

                              general standard disclosures




     general standard               report section             omissions        boundary of
       disclosures                                                             material aspects
strategy and analysis                                                                company
g4-1                                          a                       -
organisational profile                                                               company
g4-3                                         b, i-2a                  -
g4-4                                          i-4a                    -
g4-5                                         b, i-2a                  -
g4-6                                         b, i-2a                  -
g4-7                                          i-2d                    -
g4-8                                         b, i-2a                  -
g4-9                                   i-2a, iv-1a, v-1b              -
g4-10                                         v-1b                    -
g4-11                                         v-3c                    -
g4-12                                      i-4d, iii-5b               -
g4-13                                         i-2c                    -
g4-14                                     vi-1a, vi-4a                -
g4-15                                 iii-4c, v-3a, vi-4a             -
g4-16                                         i-5a                    -
identified material aspects and                                                 company, value chain
boundaries
g4-17                                        iv-1a                    -
g4-18                                         ii-4a                   -
g4-19                                     ii-4b, c-2                  -
g4-20                                          c-2                    -
g4-21                                          c-2                    -
g4-22                                 b, v-4c, vi-2a,2b               -



                                  g4-19, g4-20, g4-21, g4-32, g4-33

 corporate responsibility report 2016                                    129

g4-23                                    b            -
stakeholder engagement                                         company
g4-24                                   ii-4c         -
g4-25                                   ii-4c         -
g4-26                                   ii-4c         -
g4-27                                   ii-4c         -
report profile                                                 company
g4-28                                    b            -
g4-29                                    b            -
g4-30                                    b            -
g4-31                                    b            -
g4-32                                  c-2            -
g4-33                                 b, c-2          -
governance                                                     company
g4-34                                  ii-1b          -
g4-36                            ii-2b,3a, vi-1a      -
g4-39                                  ii-1b          -
g4-43                            ii-1b,3a, vi-1a      -
g4-44                                  ii-1b          -
g4-45                              ii-3a, vi-1a       -
g4-48                                  ii-4b          -
g4-50                                  ii-1b          -
ethics and integrity                                      company, customers,
                                                              suppliers
g4-56                            i-2b, ii-1a,2b,3a,   -
                                iii-4a,5b, v-1a,3a
g4-57                                    ii-1a        -
g4-58                                    ii-1a        -

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                      130


                           specific standard disclosures
       dma and indicators              report section          omissions    boundary of
                                                                           material aspects
economic                                                                        company
economic performance                                                            company
g4-dma                                        iv-1a               -
g4-ec1                                        iv-1a               -
market presence                                                                 company
g4-dma                                       v-3a,3b              -
g4-ec6                                        v-3a                -
indirect economic impacts                                                       company
g4-dma                                    iv-3a,3b,4a,4c          -
g4-ec8                                 iv-3a,3b,4a,4c, v-1b       -
procurement practices                                                       company, suppliers
g4-dma                                        iii-5a              -
g4-ec9                                        iii-5a              -
environmental                                                                   company
materials                                                                       company
g4-dma                                     vi-3a,3b,3c            -
g4-en2                                        vi-3c               -
energy                                                                          company
g4-dma                                    vi-2a,2b,2c,2d          -
g4-en3                                     vi-2a,2b,2c            -
water                                                                           company
g4-dma                                        vi-5d               -
g4-en8                                        vi-5d               -
g4-en9                                        vi-5d               -
g4-en10                                       vi-5d               -
biodiversity                                                                    company
g4-dma                                        vi-5c               -
g4-en11                                       vi-5c               -
g4-en12                                       vi-5c               -
g4-en14                                       vi-5c               -
emissions                                                                       company
g4-dma                                     vi-1a,2f,5e            -
g4-en15                                       vi-2f               -
g4-en16                                       vi-2f               -
effluents and waste                                                             company
g4-dma                                 vi-3a,3c,3d, vi-5c,5d      -
g4-en22                                        vi-5d              -
g4-en23                                     vi-3a,3c,3d           -
g4-en24                                        vi-5d              -
g4-en25                                      vi-3a,3d             -
g4-en26                                      vi-5c,5d             -
compliance                                                                      company
g4-dma                                        vi-1c               -
g4-en29                                       vi-1c               -
transport                                                                       company
g4-dma                                        vi-2d               -
g4-en30                                       vi-2d               -
supplier environmental assessment                                           company, suppliers
g4-dma                                         iii-5c             -
g4-en33                                        iii-5c             -
environmental grievance mechanisms                                              company
g4-dma                                        vi-1c               -

corporate responsibility report 2016                                               131

g4-en34                                          vi-1c           -
social
labour practices and decent work                                         company
employment                                                               company
g4-dma                                      v-1a,1b,5a,5c        -
g4-la1                                          v-1b             -
g4-la2                                          v-5c             -
labour/management relations
g4-dma                                           v-3c            -
g4-la4                                           v-3c            -
occupational health and safety                                           company
g4-dma                                          v-2a,2b          -
g4-la5                                           v-2a            -
g4-la6                                           v-2b            -
g4-la7                                           v-2b            -
training and education                                                   company
g4-dma                                        v-4a,4b,4c         -
g4-la11                                          v-4a            -
diversity and equal opportunity                                          company
g4-dma                                          v-1b,3a          -
g4-la12                                         v-1b,3a          -
equal remuneration for women and men                                     company
g4-dma                                           v-3b            -
g4-la13                                          v-3b            -
supplier assessment for labour practices                             company, suppliers
g4-dma                                           iii-5c          -
g4-la15                                          iii-5c          -
labour practices grievance mechanisms                                    company
g4-dma                                           v-3a            -
g4-la16                                          v-3a            -
human rights                                                             company
investment
g4-dma                                           v-3a            -
g4-hr1                                           v-3a            -
g4-hr2                                           v-4c            -
non-discrimination                                                       company
g4-dma                                           v-3a            -
g4-hr3                                           v-3a            -
supplier human rights assessment                                     company, suppliers
g4-dma                                           iii-5c          -
g4-hr11                                          iii-5c          -
human rights grievance mechanisms                                        company
g4-dma                                           v-3a            -
g4-hr12                                          v-3a            -
society                                                                  company
local communities                                                        company
g4-dma                                     ii-4c, iv-4a, vi-5f   -
g4-so2                                            iv-4d          -
anti-corruption                                                          company
g4-dma                                        ii-2c, iii-5b      -
g4-so5                                            ii-2c          -
public policy                                                            company
g4-dma                                            ii-2c          -
g4-so6                                            ii-2c          -
anti-competitive behaviour                                               company
g4-dma                                           iii-1b          -
g4-so7                                           iii-1b          -

corporate responsibility report 2016                                               132

compliance                                                               company
g4-dma                                            ii-2d         -
g4-so8                                            ii-2d         -
supplier assessment for impacts on society                          company, suppliers
g4-dma                                            iii-5c        -
g4-so10                                           iii-5c        -
grievance mechanisms for impacts on                                      company
society
g4-dma                                            iv-4d         -
g4-so11                                           iv-4d         -
product responsibility                                              company, customers,
                                                                     suppliers, network
customer health and safety                                          company, customers,
                                                                         suppliers
g4-dma                                        iii-5d, vi-4a     -
g4-pr2                                             iii-4c       -
product and service labeling                                        company, customers,
                                                                         network
g4-dma                                          iii-2a,2b       -
g4-pr4                                             iii-2a       -
g4-pr5                                          iii-3a,3c       -
marketing communications                                            company, customers,
                                                                         network
g4-dma                                            iii-2a        -
g4-pr6                                            iii-2a        -
g4-pr7                                            iii-2a        -
customer privacy                                                         company
g4-dma                                            iii-4a        -
g4-pr8                                            iii-4a        -
compliance                                                               company
g4-dma                                          iii-4b,4c       -
g4-pr9                                             iii-4c       -
telecom sector supplement
internal operations
investment                                                               company
io1                                               i-4b          -
health and safety                                                   company, customers,
                                                                        suppliers
io3                                               v-2a,2b       -
io4                                          iii-5d, vi-4a,4b   -
io5                                                vi-4a        -
io6                                          iii-5d, vi-4a,4b   -
infrastructure                                                           company
io7                                              vi-5a          -
io8                                             vi-2a,5a        -
providing access
digital divide                                                      company, customers
pa2                                             iv-2b,3a        -
pa3                                               iii-3b        -
pa4                                          i-2a,4b, iii-3b    -
pa6                                               iv-4a         -
access to content                                                   company, customers
pa7                                             iii-2a,4c       -
customer relations                                                  company, customers
pa8                                            v-2a, vi-4b      -
pa10                                            iii-2b,2c       -
other
indirect economic impact                                                 company

corporate responsibility report 2016                            133

ec13                                   iv-2b,3a,3b,4a,4b,   -
                                              v-1b

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                          134

                                      global compact table
 issue                                 principle                                   report           coverage
                                                                                   section
 human rights
           support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed            iii-5b, v-3a           f
 1.        human rights
 2.        ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses                       iii-5b, v-3a           f
 labour standard
           recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining         iii-5b,            f
 3.                                                                                   v-1a,3c
 4.        eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour                     iii-5b, v-3a           f
 5.        abolish effectively child labour                                        iii-5b, v-3a           f
           eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation        ii-1a, iii-5b,         f
 6.                                                                                   v-1a,3a
 environment
 7.        support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges              vi-1a,4a             f
           promote greater environmental responsibility                            ii-2a, iii-5b,         f
 8.                                                                                    vi-1-5
           encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly         i-4a, vi-1-5           f
 9.        technologies
 corruption
           work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and           ii-1a,2b,2c,           f
           bribery                                                                     iii-5b,
 10.                                                                                 iv-3b,4b



                        iso26000 table (international standard)
                                                                             report
 aspect                                                                                           coverage
                                                                             section
 1. scope                                                                    ii-3a,4a-c               f
 2. definitions                                                                  c-3                  f
 3. understanding social responsibility                                      ii-3a,4a-c               f
 4. principles of social responsibility                                      ii-3a,4a-c               f
 5. recognizing social responsibility and engaging stakeholders              ii-3a,4a-c               f
 6. guidance on social responsibility core subjects
 a. organizational governance                                                ii-1a-c,2a-c             f
 b. human rights                                                         iii-5b, v-1a,3a,4c           f
 c. labour practices                                                          iii-5b, v-3a            f
 d. environment                                                                   vi-1-5              f
                                                                           ii-1a2b, iii-1-4,          f
 e. fair operating practices                                                     vi-1a-c
 f. consumer issues                                                               iii-1-4             f
 g. community involvement and development                                  iv-3a,3b,4a,4c             f
 7. guidance on integrating sr throughout the organization
                                                                            ii-1-4, iii-1-5,          f
                                                                            iv-1-4, v-1-5,
 a. enhancing credibility                                                       vi-1-5
                                                                                  b,                  f
                                                                          iii-2a,2b,3a,3c,
                                                                               iv-4a-c,
 b. communication                                                            v-1c, vi-4b

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                         135

          united nations’ sustainable development goals table
  goal                                  principle                                        report section
 1.       end poverty in all its forms everywhere                                               iv-1a,4a
          end hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote                    iv-4a
 2.
          sustainable agriculture
                                                                                          iv-3a,3b,4a, v-2a,
 3.       ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages
                                                                                                vi-4a,4b
          ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong                 iv-4a, v-4c
 4.
          learning
 5.       achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls                               v-3a,3b
 6.       ensure access to water and sanitation for all                                            -
          ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for                 -
 7.
          all
          promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and                       iv-1a,
 8.
          decent work for all                                                          v-1a,1b,3a,3b,3c,5a,5c
          build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and     i-4b, ii-2e, iii-3b, vi-4a
 9.
          foster innovation
 10.      reduce inequality within and among countries                                   iv-2b,3a,4a, v-3a,3b
 11.      make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable                               iv-2c,4a
 12.      ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns                                 iv-2b
 13.      take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts                           vi-1-5
 14.      conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources                 vi-3b,3d,5d
          sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse              vi-3a,3b,3c,5c
 15.
          land degradation, halt biodiversity loss
 16.      promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies                                           iv-4a
                                                                                      ii-1-4, iii-1-5, iv-1-4, v-1-5,
 17.      revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development
                                                                                                   vi-1-5

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                 136


3. glossary
please pay attention to the following, frequently used terms:

 term                               refers to
 “base stations” or “bts”           the installations in a region (including transmission antennas), which
                                    are used to transmit data or voice, from a mobile through the
                                    telecommunications network.
 “biodiversity”                     the variety of living organizations in an ecosystem or in geographical
                                    area.
 “broadband”                        the wide bandwidth data transimission, which transports multiple
                                    signals and traffic types and allows high-speed internet access.
 “business continuity               the management approach, which proactively handles issues that a
 management” or “bcm”               company could face (e.g. disaster, crisis), in order to ensure
                                    continuation of offered services and products.
 “carbon dioxide” or “co2”          the gaseous chemical compound derived from the combustion of
                                    fossil fuels (oil, gasoline, natural gas, etc.) and organic compounds
                                    (wood, plastic, etc.), which contributes to the greenhouse effect.
 “corporate responsibility” or      the voluntary commitment of companies to include in their
 “sustainable development”          corporate practices economical, social and environmental criteria
                                    and activities, which are beyond the legislative requirements and are
                                    related to their impact on stakeholders. the term refers to the
                                    current economic growth that does not compromise the ability of
                                    future generations to satisfy their own needs.
 “customers”                        the final users of telekom albania’s products and services.
 “deutsche telekom group” or        all companies of the deutsche telekom group, namely deutsche
 “dt group” or “group”              telekom ag and its subsidiaries worldwide (including telekom
                                    albania).
 “electromagnetic fields” or        the non-ionizing radiation emitted by mobile phones and base
 “emf”                              stations (used to transmit data and voice).
 “environmental footprint”          the total greenhouse gas emissions that arise directly (e.g. burning
                                    of fossil fuels for heating) or indirectly (e.g. by the use of products)
                                    from a company.
 “iii-2a”, “vi-2b” etc.             the area, section and subsection of this report (e.g. used in the gri,
                                    global compact and stakeholder tables). for example, the term “iii-
                                    2a” makes reference to area iii (our customers & suppliers), section
                                    2 (responsible marketing) and subsection a (“applying responsible
                                    marketing practices”).
 “international commission on       the international institution which defines acceptable levels of non-
 non-ionizing radiation             ionizing radiation levels.
 protection” or “icnirp”
 “international labour              the united nations agency which deals with labour issues, i.e.
 organization” or “ilo”             international    labour      standards,     social   protection   and
                                    work opportunities for all.
 “international organisation of     the largest organisation in the world to develop internationally
 standardisation” or “iso”          accepted standards, such as iso9001.
 “internet”                         the global system of interconnected computer networks that use
                                    the internet protocol suite (tcp/ip) to link devices worldwide.
 “interactive voice response” or    the automated telephony system that interacts with callers, gathers
 “ivr”                              information and routes calls to the appropriate recipient. an ivr
                                    system (ivrs) accepts a combination of voice telephone input and
                                    touch-tone keypad selection and provides appropriate responses in
                                    the form of voice, fax, callback, e-mail and perhaps other media.
 “global compact”                   the united nations initiative to encourage companies to align their

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                              137

                                  business operation with 10 universally accepted principles in the
                                  areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
 “organization for economic co-   the intergovernmental economic organization with 35 member
 operation and development” or    countries to stimulate economic progress and world trade.
 “oecd”
 “ote group” or “ote”             ote group of companies, which has operations in greece (through
                                  ote s.a. and cosmote s.a.), romania (through telekom romania)
                                  and albania (through telekom albania).
 “report”                         the corporate responsibility report 2016.
 “stem”                           the teaching and learning in the fields of science, technology,
                                  engineering and mathematics, which typically includes educational
                                  activities across all grade levels (from pre-school to post-doctorate),
                                  both in formal (e.g. classrooms) and informal (e.g. after-school)
                                  programs.
 “telekom albania”, “company”     telekom albania sh.a. (which this report refers to).
 or “we”
 “universal declaration of        the declaration adopted by the united nations general assembly in
 human rights”                    1948 with the fundamental rights to which all human beings are
                                  inherently entitled.

corporate responsibility report 2016                                                                    138


4. feedback form
1. to which stakeholder group do you belong?
   customers                         sales network                   suppliers                    employees
   government / authorities          associations                   local communities             citizens
   ngos / npos                       media                           shareholders
other: ____________________


2. what is your impression, about the following areas of this report?
area:                                    excellent        good        neutral        mediocre          bad
ii. strategy & management
iii. customers & suppliers
iv. society
v. employees
vi. environment

3. what is your impression, about the following elements of this report?
element:                                excellent        good        neutral        mediocre           bad
sections have the right balance
important topics are covered
structure supports easy reading
texts are comprehensive
quantitative elements are complete
graphs included are comprehensive

4. are there any topics, which are not answered (or not adequately covered) in
this report or do you have questions you would like to be answered in our next
report?
_____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________

5. are there any other comments/proposals you might have?
__________________________________________________________________________________



  personal data (optionally):                   please fill out the form and send it to:
  name: _________________________________
  organization:__________________________ telekom albania, corporate affairs department
  address:________________________________rruga gjergj legisi, laprake, tirana, albania
  phone/fax: ____________________________ e-mail: contact_us@telekom.com.al
  e-mail:_________________________________
                                                all information on this form will be used only to evaluate
                                                this report, through statistical analysis. personal data are
                                                protected, in accordance with the provisions of the
                                                respective legislation regarding private information.

corporate responsibility report 2016                       139



                             stream management
                          e-mail: info@stream-eu.com
                          website: www.stream-eu.com




                              telekom albania sh.a.
                          rruga gjergj legisi, laprake
                                  tirana, albania
                       e-mail: contact_us@telekom.com.al
                         website: www.telekom.com.al
