2013   corporate citizenship
       report summary

overview

corporate citizenship is ti’s commitment to be accountable for the company’s
social, environmental and economic global impact. we set high standards for our
global operations and are focused on ethical business practices and compliance,
both inside the company and throughout our supply chain.


citizenship
our commitment to corporate citizenship encompasses:
• company operations.
• product stewardship.
• environmental responsibility.
• employee well-being.
• community commitment.
• responsible advocacy.
• corporate governance.

our citizenship strategy team, a cross-functional group of company leaders,
directs our performance in these areas.

sustainability
we use the term “sustainability” primarily in relation to the operation of our business.
we believe responsible, sustainable operations can meet current resource needs
without compromising the needs of future generations. ti works toward sustainability
by reducing waste and inefficiency in its operations, including manufacturing facilities,
office buildings and distribution activities. to make sustainable progress, we set both
annual and multiyear goals. our annual targets focus on continued improvements
and cost savings, including reductions in energy use, chemical use and utilities costs,
among other results.

                                                          2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 3




report scope
this document summarizes ti’s 2013 social and environmental performance. the information
presented covers all wholly owned ti operations worldwide (unless otherwise stated). terms
such as “ti,” “the company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to ti operations interchangeably. all
currency is presented in u.s. dollars.

global reporting initiative
the complete 2013 corporate citizenship report is web-based, available at ti.com/ccr. it was
prepared using the global reporting initiative’s (gri) sustainability reporting g3.1 guidelines.
the report, now in its eighth edition, meets the standards for gri’s self-assessed application
level a. see ti.com/ccr-griindex for more.

awards and honors
a variety of third parties honored ti for its social and environmental achievements in 2013.
•   cr magazine named ti among its “100 best corporate citizens” as well as one of
    its “10 best corporate citizens” in the information technology sector.
•   ethisphere institute included ti on its list of the “world’s most ethical companies.”
•   fortune magazine included ti on its “world’s most admired companies” list.
•   thomson reuters named ti to its “top 100 global innovators” list.
•   working mother magazine included ti on its list of the “100 best companies for
    working mothers.”

for a comprehensive list of awards, see ti.com/ccr-awards.

                                          2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 4




2013 at a glance


                            revenue by segment




                            revenue by region




product revenue by market                          employment by region

                                                              2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 5




                              letter from our ceo

we’re in the business of engineering a better tomorrow. it starts with understanding the world’s greatest
challenges. then we go to work; designing and manufacturing the right game-changing solutions – in a
responsible way.

we are focusing on products and technologies with long life spans that could generate sustainable revenue
and returns. these products almost universally tackle the challenge of reducing energy use by enabling
greater degrees of efficiency and conservation. our innovations are also allowing customers to introduce
their products to new and emerging markets, and to improve product safety and reliability.

to support our business direction, we’ve purchased and acquired new facilities and manufacturing tools
over the past few years. these additions will help ensure continuity of supply and deliver differentiated
semiconductor solutions with the most advanced process technologies available. we’re working hard to
bring these factories and equipment up to ti’s high standards as we continue our efforts to operate
responsibly, with a lighter footprint on the environment globally.

we’ve also spent time working collaboratively across the industry on supply chain and manufacturing
audit standards through the electronic industry citizenship coalition. this solutions-oriented approach is
helping build a responsible supply chain and achieve compliance with new regulations while reducing
risks and associated costs.

an easy decision we’ve made over the past year is to continue our investment in science, technology,
engineering and math education. access to qualified individuals and top research is vital to our business
today and long into the future. that’s why ti and its philanthropic arms granted $7 million to support k-12
education programs and more than $26 million to support university programs in 2013.

we know that access to the world’s top talent helps us achieve amazing things. we are proud our
employees helped ti earn recognition again as a top 100 global innovator. we were also recognized
among the 100 best companies for working mothers, the 100 best corporate citizens and the world’s
most ethical companies. it is an honor to work with some of the industry’s best and receive recognition
as a great company.

as we look to 2014 and beyond, we have an exciting journey ahead. we are engaging our stakeholders
more formally on social and environmental performance, which will help focus our efforts on the issues of
greatest value to our company and broader community for years to come.




                                                     rich templeton
                                                     chairman, president and chief executive officer

major worldwide locations*                                                                                                                                                  2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 6




                                                                                                                              ti has manufacturing, design and sales operations
                                                                                                                              in 35 countries worldwide.




  united states                                                                                   europe
  dallas, texas                                                                                   freising, germany
                                                                                                                                                                                               japan
  germantown, maryland                                                                            greenock, scotland
                                                                                                                                                                                               aizu, japan
  houston, texas                                         h                                                                                                                                     miho, japan
  lewisville, texas
                                                                                                                                                                                               tokyo, japan
  manchester, new hampshire
  plano, texas
  richardson, texas
  santa clara, california
  sherman, texas                   mexico
  south portland, maine            aguascalientes, aguascalientes                                                                           asia
  sunnyvale, california                                                                                                                     bangalore, india
  tucson, arizona
                                                                                                                                            beijing, china
                                                                                                                                            chengdu, china
                                                                                                                                            shanghai, china
                                                                                                                                            shenzhen, china

                                                                                                                                            seoul, korea

                                                                                                                                            kuala lumpur, malaysia
                                                                                                                                            malacca, malaysia

                                                                                                                                            baguio, philippines
                                                                                                                                            pampanga (clark), philippines

                                                                                                                                            taipei, taiwan

  facilities                                                                                                                                middle east
  manufacturing sites                                                                                                                       tel aviv, israel

h ti headquarters
  *ti has manufacturing, design and sales operations in 35 countries worldwide. for purposes of this report, we define
  major operations (significant locations) as 1) all manufacturing facilities and 2) design and sales offices with employee
  populations greater than 100 as of december 31, 2013.

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 7




                company operations

ti designs and manufactures analog integrated circuits and embedded processors, helping
more than 100,000 customers transform the future today.

2013 performance

citizenship
we hold ourselves accountable for our social, environmental and economic impact around
the world.
• launched a progressing our performance committee, which began developing recommenda-
  tions for progressing the company’s citizenship performance.
• began reviewing the global reporting initiative’s latest reporting framework, g4, for full
  adoption in 2015.
• set annual goals to make continual improvements and cost savings, including reducing
  energy and water use, waste and chemical use, and improving employee safety. we also set
  and exceeded a goal to increase employee volunteer hours by 25 percent.
• made progress against our five-year energy and greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions reduction
  goals.

stakeholder engagement
we use a variety of forums to engage a wide spectrum of stakeholders.
• engaged key stakeholder groups including employees, senior managers, customers, industry
  associations, community partners and investors through a third-party assessment to determine
  the most important environmental, social and governance issues.
• launched a new online employee portal to provide one location for employees to access
  internal tools and resources.
• continued educating employees about community needs globally so they could give their time,
  expertise or money to make their communities stronger.
• introduced investors to ti’s capital-management strategy, which codified some past practices
  and reaffirmed the company’s belief that these practices are sustainable well into the future.
• increased social engagement with customers through our engineer-to-engineer (e2e)
  community by more than 40 percent.
• expanded ti’s innovative customer expert advisory panel to more than more than 5,000 active
  members in 92 countries.
• collaborated with education experts, four-year institutions and consortiums to increase the
  graduation rate of engineers and share ideas on creating a competitive workforce.

                                                        2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 8


                company operations




• launched ticommoncore.com to provide educators with free resources, classroom-ready
  activities for ti-nspire cx and ti-84 plus calculators, and professional development programs
  to ensure the successful implementation of common core state standards for math.
• continued working with the semiconductor industry association, the informational technology
  industry council and others to advance a number of policy priorities.
• surveyed about 1,200 community partners and employees to assess their awareness and
  perceptions of our corporate citizenship programs. the results helped shape our subsequent
  communications.

business continuity
we maintain operations by preparing for business interruptions.
• updated our business continuity planning policy to further strengthen continuity planning,
  response and recovery efforts globally.
• mapped our supply chain to identify and procure alternative sources for critical materials.
• assessed the business continuity programs of critical suppliers.
• took action to thwart an increase in cyberattacks seeking to disrupt our information technology
  systems and steal intellectual property.
• earned certification as a member of the customs-trade partnership against terrorism program.
  we also met the department of homeland security’s chemical facility anti-terrorism standards.
• conducted emergency response team surveys at all major manufacturing sites to determine
  emergency response readiness.
• enhanced emergency communications systems, allowing for quicker, more effective and more
  reliable delivery of emergency information to stakeholders.

supplier accountability
we work closely with thousands of suppliers to responsibly manufacture and deliver innovative
products.
• developed a supplier code of conduct to instill the same standards within our supply chain that
  we agreed to when we began using the electronics industry citizenship coalition (eicc) code
  of conduct. we also began requiring that suppliers complete eicc assessment questionnaires.
• conducted a routine risk assessment of our critical suppliers to ensure that their qualifications,
  financial performance and business continuity plans met our standards.
• commissioned a third-party assessment of our compliance-planning efforts to date, which
  found that our program and progress are consistent with most of our electronics industry peers.
• exceeded our goal of spending at least 5.5 percent of u.s. procurement dollars with minority-
  and women-owned suppliers.
• received the dallas/fort worth minority supplier development council’s buy those who buy
  us best practice award for our minority business inclusion efforts.
• recognized by two automotive manufacturers as an exceptional supplier.

                                                          2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 9


                company operations




looking ahead: 2014 and beyond
• file our first conflict minerals disclosure with the u.s. securities and exchange commission.
• pursue full membership in the eicc, which calls for us to formally report our supplier
  assessment results and administrative requirements by 2015.
• initiate eicc-facilitated audits of 25 percent of identified high-risk suppliers to evaluate their
  labor, ethics, occupational health and safety, and environmental practices.
• spend at least 6 percent of u.s. procurement dollars with minority- and women-owned
  suppliers.
• visit suppliers to evaluate and verify their business continuity programs and emergency
  response readiness.
• begin working toward the implementation of the iso 22301 international business continuity
  management standard by 2016.
• proactively monitor and test computer network and systems, identifying vulnerabilities and
  suspicious activity to prevent cyberattacks.
• launch a new ti corporate citizenship website and blog at www.ti.com/citizenship to
  provide timely information and make it easier to engage with stakeholders about ti’s social
  and environmental policies, practices and programs.
• launch a new official corporate blog, think.innovate, which will contain strategic and timely
  content about business issues relevant to ti and the semiconductor industry.




                                    global spend with suppliers*

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 10




                 product stewardship

our innovations help dozens of industries make their products more efficient, more reliable
and safer.

2013 performance

innovation
for more than 80 years, technological innovation has been at the core of our success.
• invested $1.5 billion in r&d that will result in breakthrough or incremental innovation to
  help manage energy, ensure safety and security, drive medical advances, enable cloud
  computing, and improve technology-based entertainment experiences.
• gave $12.2 million through the semiconductor research corporation (src) to fund
  university research.
• sponsored about $9.8 million worth of basic and applied research conducted by select
  universities.
• participated in the src’s nanoelectronics research initiative to initiate a five-year phase of
  university research and to accelerate the use of graphene-based technologies.
• inaugurated a ti india engineering lab in bangalore and opened the center of excellence for
  embedded product development at the netaji subhas institute of technology, also in india.

sustainable product design
we strive to solve customers’ problems, anticipate their technological aspirations, and work
conscientiously to meet their needs. ti launched:
• a highly accurate polyphase metrology system-on-chip that makes it easier for utilities to
  receive accurate, secure and reliable measurements of energy consumption.
• system and reference designs, along with development kits and software, to ease solar
  installations and rapidly deploy more clean power from solar.
• instaspin™ motor-control technology and software solutions that reduce product development
  time and improve energy efficiency.
• two power-management chipsets with our patented maxlife™ fast-charge technology
  that reduce battery charge time for tablets, smartphones and other consumer electronics by
  20 to 30 percent.
• the industry’s smallest and most accurate li-ion battery gas-gauge integrated circuit, which
  provides up to 50 percent more runtime under variable loads and for aged cells.
• a new topology for led light bulbs that lowers energy use and costs while maintaining dimming
  and lighting performance.
• the industry’s lowest-power dc/dc step-down converter, an ultra-low-power circuit that
  increases the amount of harvested energy an end application can use by as much as 70 percent
  over alternative devices.
• more than 100 analog and embedded products that help enable automotive safety, fuel
  efficiency and functionality.

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 11


                product stewardship




• safeti™ design packages that help auto designers more easily meet international safety
  standards.
• the industry’s smallest and most accurate li-ion battery fuel gauge integrated circuit, which
  boosts battery runtimes in portable medical devices, such as wearable health monitors, by more
  than 50 percent.
• a dlp® medical imaging solution that helps medical personnel reduce the number of needle
  pricks to find a vein for ivs, blood work and other procedures.
• an updated lightcrafter kit to develop security applications, like fingerprinting and facial
  scanning, to help prevent forgery and fraud.
• a new dlp 3-d printer solution that helps quickly create detailed models for use in
  architecture, construction, industrial design, automotive, aerospace, military and civil
  engineering applications.

looking ahead: 2014 and beyond
• open kilby labs innovation studio in dallas to give customers, students and university
  researchers hands-on experience with technologies that are shaping the future of electronics.
• invest at least 12 percent of revenues in r&d that will result in breakthrough and incremental
  innovation.
• accelerate deployment of smart meters to help utilities and consumers measure and manage
  electric, water and gas use.
• continue designing small, portable, efficient and powerful sensors that can enable newer
  applications.
• increase energy-harvesting capability in large-scale solar installations in a safe and reliable
  manner.
• release innovative battery-management technology that will accurately measure and manage
  battery backup systems used as energy storage for smart grid, wind farm and data network
  systems.
• design and release advanced technologies that use environmentally available energy to
  power small electronics, which will lower their cost of ownership and eliminate maintenance
  and battery waste.
• develop automotive electronic systems that provide improved performance and safety, such
  as solid-state lighting and electronic stability.

                                                     2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 12




                environmental responsibility

we work to continuously improve environmental performance, including resource
conservation and operational efficiency at our sites worldwide.

2013 performance

air quality
we voluntarily reduce air emissions beyond what is required by law, where feasible.
• received the north texas commission’s 2013 working for clean air award in the “most
  innovative” category for our design work in power-management and renewable energy
  technologies.
• complied with the u.s. environmental protection agency’s (epa) new national ambient air
  quality standards for particle pollution.
• decreased nitrogen oxides emissions from u.s. sites by 24 percent.

climate change
we are working proactively within the semiconductor industry to reduce ghg emissions.
• reduced ti’s carbon footprint 4 percent from 2.42 million metric tons carbon dioxide
  equivalent in 2012 to 2.33 in 2013.
• implemented 112 energy-efficiency projects worldwide that prevented 34,000 metric tons
  of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere.
• worked with the epa to improve its calculation and monitoring methodologies for semi-
  conductor manufacturers when complying with its mandatory ghg reporting rule.
• opened an aircraft operators holding account for the purpose of trading allowances
  (carbon credits) to offset emissions generated by corporate aircraft in europe.

energy use
we take a holistic approach to reducing energy use, from energy-efficiency measures to
conservation practices.
• exceeded our 2013 goal to reduce utility costs by $8 million by saving $10.2 million.
• used 10.4 million british thermal units or 3,035 million kilowatt hours, which made up
  about 59 percent of our carbon footprint. our normalized energy use has decreased by
  15 percent since 2010.
• met the u.s. department of energy’s better buildings, better plants program goal of reducing
  our energy intensity by 25 percent seven years early. we now use 32 percent less energy to
  complete the same manufacturing tasks.

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 13


                environmental responsibility




transportation
our efficient product distribution, fleet and employee commuting programs reduce costs, improve
air quality, and benefit employees.
• enabled 58 percent of our workforce (approximately 18,250 employees globally) remote
   connectivity tools for telecommuting.
• installed 43 electric vehicle (ev) charging stations at 12 north texas sites and three stations
   at our stafford site in texas through a federally funded program. this boosted the total number
   of ev charging stations available to u.s.
   employees to 74.
• installed an inventory management system in our singapore product distribution center,
   which allows us to store four times the volume of products, increases productivity by 40
   percent, and vastly improves inventory accuracy and visibility.
• reduced expenses by consolidating product volume, optimizing our shipping network, and
   negotiating better prices despite fuel and industry cost increases.
• received the bronze bicycle friendly business designation from the league of american
   bicyclists for taking important steps in promoting a bicycle-friendly work culture.
• enabled 375 cyclists at 32 sites in 13 countries to participate in bike to work week/day, saving
   212 gallons of gasoline and avoiding 1.8 metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions.

water use
we conserve and reuse water, and work to preserve water quality.
• reduced total water use globally by 1 percent.
• reused and recycled water, which accounted for about 29 percent of our total water
  consumption. as a result, we avoided using 2 billion gallons (saving enough water to fill
  3,030 olympic-sized swimming pools).
• completed 19 water-saving projects that conserved 248 million gallons and reduced our
  costs by $994,000.

materials management
we work to maximize the efficiency of the materials we purchase, source our materials
responsibly, and recycle materials inside and outside of our operations where possible. ti also
strives to use each product efficiently and recycle where feasible.
• ended the year with a worldwide efficiency (recycling) rate of 92.3 percent.
• kept 32 metric tons of scrap silicon wafers out of the waste stream by selling them to
   solar-panel fabricators.
• continued our chemical reduction program for manufacturing and assembly/test sites, which
   calls for each site to select one or more chemicals (based on risks and hazards) and reduce its
   use by 3 percent or more.
• implemented a repair and refurbishing program in 2013 to make it easier to repair tool parts to
   extend their operating life, reduce replacement costs, and keep used parts out of landfills.

                                                       2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 14


                environmental responsibility




• recycled paper, aluminum, mobile devices and electronics at office sites, and also recycled
  more than 900 metric tons of compostable organic waste.
• sent used manufacturing materials, including sputtering targets and photomasks, back to
  suppliers to reclaim metals and reduce the cost of future targets.

sustainable sites
we aim to source materials responsibly, reduce inefficiency in operations, preserve the rights of
our employees, and maintain compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
• worked with sematech and the engineering research center for environmentally benign
  semiconductor manufacturing to help identify potential environmental, safety and health risks
  associated with the use of nanomaterials.
• shut down operations at two older, less-efficient manufacturing sites as demand increased for
  larger wafers, which can be produced more cost-effectively and efficiently at other ti facilities.
• began construction of a new office building in sugar land, texas, which is registered with u.s.
  green building council’s leed-nc (new construction) program.

looking ahead: 2014 and beyond
• implement energy- and water-saving projects (at least one per site) that will reduce utility
  costs by $9 million.
• identify additional suppliers that can provide abatement technology at u.s. sites to further
  reduce ghgs.
• subsidize mass transit, vanpools, shuttles and on-site cafeterias at select sites to encourage
  commuting and reduce employee trips to and from campus.
• form a north texas water team to strategically focus and further increase our water-efficiency
  efforts in the region.
• review and refine current baseline water usage and water balances at all sites to ensure
  consistency in measuring and reporting.
• reduce the use of at least one chemical by 5 percent at each manufacturing and
  assembly/test site.

                               2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 15


environmental responsibility




 carbon footprint                       total energy use*




 total water use*                         total waste*

                                                       2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 16




                 employee well-being

we believe that a collaborative and inclusive work environment, complemented
by targeted training and development, inspires innovation.

2013 performance

safety
we invest significantly in programs, policies and tools that keep our employees and workplace safe.
• ended the year with a days away, restricted or job transfer (dart) case rate of 0.08 and
  a recordable rate of 0.22. compared to other members of the semiconductor industry
  association, ti continues to be one of the safest companies in the industry.
• reduced recordable ergonomics-related injuries by 19 percent and dart ergonomics-related
  injuries by 52 percent.
• reviewed all safety incidents weekly; conducted appropriate and prompt root-cause analysis,
  standardized how cases are recorded and closed, and notified sites to take appropriate
  corrective actions.
• trained 100 percent of supervisors on environment, safety and health leadership.

health
our comprehensive health and wellness programs are designed to protect employees at work
and help address their specific health needs.
• recognized as the platinum winner of the best employers for healthy lifestyles award by the
  national business group on health for our u.s. health and well-being investments.
• continued to provide health screenings and access to health and wellness resources to u.s.
  employees. two-thirds of those employees who participated in our 2012 health screenings and
  had three or more personal health risks reduced those risks to two or less in 2013.
• partnered with weight watchers to bring employees weight-management support at a
  significant discount. about 200 participants lost 2,650 pounds.
• offered free on-site biometric screenings to employees, including blood pressure, body mass
  index, waist measurement, triglycerides, cholesterol and glucose levels measurements to help
  them identify emerging health concerns.
• provided health briefings to employees in china on precautions they could take to avoid
  a new avian influenza a (h7n9) virus. we also administered free flu vaccinations to more than
  5,700 employees.

work-life balance
we offer work-life support, in addition to competitive pay and benefits and opportunities for
advancement, to help attract, engage and retain the best talent.
• provided resources and tools for more than 18,000 employees globally (58 percent of our
  workforce), enabling them to connect remotely and telecommute.
• addressed more than 8,600 employee requests through a concierge service, saving an
  estimated 25,000 hours during the year.

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 17


                employee well-being




• continued an opt-in email system targeted to new mothers, parents of various-age children
  and employees taking care of elderly parents, among others, to unite those who face similar
  personal challenges and enable them to share, ask for help or inquire about resources.
• awarded the work-life seal of distinction from worldatwork’s alliance for work-life progress.

pay and benefits
we provide competitive pay and benefits.
• increased salaries in 2013 and paid approximately 5 percent of base earnings in profit
  sharing (based on 2012 performance) to all employees globally, with some variation in france
  and mexico, which have locally regulated profit-sharing plans.
• contributed $62.4 million to u.s. employees’ 401(k) savings plans.

diversity and inclusion
a diverse workforce helps us achieve a sustained competitive advantage through variations in
experiences, work styles, thoughts and ideas.
• welcomed ronald kirk, u.s. trade representative under president barack obama, to ti’s
  board of directors. he is the second african-american to join the board.
• recognized by the women’s forum of new york as a “corporate champion” for having
  women represent 40 percent or more of our board membership.
• began expanding our women’s initiative to assembly/test sites across the globe and to
  our fabrication sites in japan and china.
• recognized as a top diversity employer for hispanics by hispanic network magazine.
• named among the “top 50 companies for executive women” by the national association for
  female executives.

recruitment
we continually seek diverse and innovative thinkers to join our team – people who are inspired to
create game-changing technologies that better our world.
• hired 3,325 new employees globally, including 970 new college graduates and 930 interns.
• reached talented people with disabilities in the u.s. by partnering with gettinghired and the
  equal opportunity publications’ annual career expos. we also increased outreach for military
  veterans to consider technical and engineering positions at ti, in partnership with our veterans
  diversity initiative and recruitmilitary.
• engaged students at 45 u.s. universities and in other countries worldwide to consider
   a career at ti.
• named to universum’s top 100 “most attractive employers in the u.s.” list and “top 50 ideal
   employer” in the asia-pacific region. we were also included on business insider’s “50 best
   employers in america” list.

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 18


                employee well-being




retention
we offer a variety of programs and incentives to engage and retain employees.
• completed workforce reductions in our wireless business unit that began in 2012, and shut
  down operations at two older manufacturing facilities in texas and japan. affected employees
  received a range of assistance including compensation, benefits and job search support.
• put processes in place to attract and retain qualified employees to work at our fabrication site
  and recently acquired assembly/test site in china.
• appointed an internal task force to assess our onboarding and hiring processes and improve
  retention rates in malaysia.
• continued retaining long-term employees. the average tenure of our global workforce was
  almost 12 years; 25 percent had been with ti for 10 to 20 years and 22 percent had worked for
  the company more than 20 years.

human rights
we work diligently to treat our employees fairly and ethically, and encourage suppliers to treat
their own workers with respect and dignity as well.
• scored 90 percent on the human rights campaign foundation’s u.s. corporate equality
  index for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender equality.
• visited more than 25 ti locations to review human rights policies, reporting processes and
  training needs.
• continued to comply with the california transparency in supply chains act, which requires
  companies to report efforts to eradicate slavery and human trafficking in their supply chains.
• completed more than 120,000 employee training modules related to human rights, ethics and
  compliance, as well as human rights training for security personnel and contractors.

development
we provide access to a wide range of tools and resources to help our global workforce learn,
perform and grow.
• launched make an impact, a one-year initiative designed to enhance new college graduates’
  performance and accelerate their growth and success as ti employees.
• implemented a standardized quality assessment process to evaluate classroom training
  curriculums and their effectiveness, while accelerating our continuous improvement process.
• delivered more than 32 hours of training (on average) to each employee.
• welcomed and provided introductory orientations to 3,325 new employees.
• held four-day boot camps for more than 400 experienced engineers to teach them cutting-edge
  engineering techniques that will enhance the quality of their design work for our customers.
• extended invitations to 335 first-time managers to participate in our comprehensive choose
  to lead program, which includes formal workshops, online resources and a 360-degree
  assessment.

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 19


                employee well-being




• promoted or elected 349 employees to ti’s technical ladder, a prestigious program that
  recognizes employees who are making key technical or production contributions.
• helped 464 employees further their education by reimbursing $2.2 million in
  tuition through our educational assistance program.

recognition
we discovered years ago that when we acknowledge the value and commitment of our workforce,
employees become better connected, engaged and aligned.
• resurrected our innovators in action awards program to recognize employees who have
  developed innovative products or processes that differentiate ti and add value for our customers.
• launched a new initiative, diy (do it yourself) with ti, which promotes innovations created by
  employee hobbyists on their own time using ti devices.
• enabled u.s. managers to recognize about 5,200 employees for their contributions with
  non-cash items.
• presented employees in germany, the philippines, japan and mexico with 2013 environmental,
  safety and health excellence awards for embodying ti’s values and meeting aggressive safety
  and environmental goals.
• acknowledged 462 employees’ five-year service anniversaries and 231 employees who
  celebrated 25 years with ti.

looking ahead: 2014 and beyond
• achieve a dart rate of 0.08 or less and an on-the-job recordable injury rate of 0.20 or less.
• certify our chengdu, china, site according to international organization for standardization
  14000 and occupational health and safety assessment series 18000 standards.
• host wellness fairs, health screenings, weight watchers meetings and health education
  activities.
• more clearly define the diversity and inclusion expectations and roles of managers, and
  build their leadership skills.
• increase recruitment outreach to military veterans, minorities and individuals with disabilities
  in the u.s.
• increase employees’ awareness of work-life initiatives and flexible work options, and encourage
  their use of these benefits and tools.
• increase contributions to employees’ health savings accounts, providing dollars each year for
  employees in our high-deductible health plan to spend on medical expenses tax-free.
• engage our factories and suppliers to discuss and review their social responsibility and human
  rights standards and performance.
• roll out a performance management campaign, performance matters, to drive consistent and
  meaningful performance discussions between employees and their managers.

                           2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 20


  employee well-being




recordable injury cases*    composition of governance bodies




employee tenure*                average hours of training

                                                       2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 21




                  community commitment

we believe strong companies build strong communities and strong communities build
strong companies.

2013 performance

giving
we support initiatives that enhance our ability to innovate and improve the quality of life in the
areas where we operate.
• granted $27.9 million from corporate funds to support numerous agencies, universities,
  programs and charities. of this amount:
  – ti gave $15 million to the ti foundation, which granted $14 million in 2013, including $3.2
     million to the united way and $690,000 to support other community investment programs.
  – the ti foundation and ti employees gave $270,000 to the american red cross for
     typhoon haiyan relief efforts in the philippines, and ti donated ¥$1 million (renminbi), or
     about $161,000, to the china youth development foundation to help rebuild schools
     impacted by the 7.0-magnitude ya’an earthquake.
• employees gave more than $5.7 million to many worthy causes through individual donations
  and ti-sponsored campaigns and activities.
• recognized ti silicon valley as top corporate philanthropist by the silicon valley business
  journal for its contributions to the community.

education
we invest significantly in science, technology, engineering and math (stem) education efforts,
particularly in the u.s., to prepare our future workforce and continue technological advancements.
• partnered with universities in 35 countries to integrate the latest analog and
  embedded technology into engineering curriculums.
• sponsored 12 ti innovation challenge design contests for 33,483 students at top universities
  worldwide to encourage up-and-coming visionaries to share their ideas and put their passion
  into practice with a career at ti.
• granted more than $6.5 million to support k-12 education programs.
• provided curriculums and tools that support teachers, help students grasp the fundamentals of
  stem, and make classroom learning more stimulating.
• supported education reform in china by working with top universities to enhance their
  curriculums, and to provide students with more hands-on experience and training in an effort
  to improve the quality of basic education.
• donated 100 multimedia classrooms to schools in poverty-stricken areas of central and west
  china and trained teachers on how to use the technology to enhance student learning.

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 22


               community commitment




volunteerism
• enabled employees to contribute 61,000 hours of their time, valued at almost $1.4 million,
  to community organizations.
• increased tracked volunteer hours by 33.3 percent, exceeding our 25 percent goal.
• expanded community involvement programs to encourage more employees to make an
  impact in their local communities.
• trained 125 community ambassadors in the u.s. to help employees be more effective
  board members.
• offered employees more strategic volunteer opportunities with ti and ti foundation grant
  recipients that support education and community investment programs.

looking ahead: 2014 and beyond
• evaluate global philanthropy processes to broaden our impact and offer more opportunities
  for employees to support their local ti site communities.
• comply with the new companies act legislation in india, requiring specific processes and
  minimum giving to support specified corporate social-responsibility programs there.
• open our first china youth development foundation project hope school to give more
  students access to an education.
• provide stem curriculums, labs and learning technology, and form strategic partnerships
  with select u.s. high schools and universities to ignite students’ interest in pursuing related
  university degrees and careers.
• expand professional development programs and content offerings to help educators integrate
  common core state standards and next generation science standards into u.s. classrooms.
• make significant investments in universities with research programs that align with our
  technology roadmap.
• expand our analog power curriculum support in universities worldwide and further encourage
  the integration of embedded technology in curriculums.
• launch get involved, a one-stop portal for employee giving and volunteering.
• increase employee volunteer hours globally by 25 percent.

                                                                                   2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 23


                 community commitment




             corporate giving                                                             ti foundation giving*




              employee giving                                                                         total volunteer time




*giving tracked through the u.s.-based ti foundation matching gifts program.             *these are estimates based on tracked
**includes health and human services, united wau, disaster relief and other.             volunteer activities only.
disaster relief includes employee gifts in support of domestic and international
disaster relief efforts but does not include value of employee volunteer hours.

                                                       2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 24




                 responsible advocacy

we have an obligation to our shareholders, employees and customers to advocate for
responsible government policies that help us achieve our business goals, promote and
protect our interests, and fulfill our societal obligations.

2013 performance
• advocated for policies that support growth, innovation and competitiveness.
• worked closely with the u.s. government on export control reforms affecting semiconductors.
• supported efforts to expand the information technology agreement and to conclude key trade
  agreements with the european union and trans-pacific partnership economies.
• worked with policymakers to accelerate the deployment of energy-efficient and clean energy
  technologies, and generated awareness of the importance of electronics in automotive safety
  and innovation.
• paid $1.6 million to advocacy organizations for dues, involvement in lobbying activities or both.


looking ahead: 2014 and beyond
• remain engaged in expanding market access through trade and opportunities for growth.
• continue to play a leadership role in associations to advance innovation through robust
  research funding and immigration reform for high-skilled workers.
• pursue efforts to shape a favorable business environment through sound, globally competitive
  tax policies.

                                                      2013 corporate citizenship report summary | 25




                 corporate governance
we believe good corporate governance is integral to our long-term success.

2013 performance
• welcomed two new board members: mark a. blinn, president and chief executive
  officer of flowserve corp.; and ronald kirk, u.s. trade representative under president
  barack obama.
• experienced no material incidents and received no material fines on any legal matter,
  including matters relating to environmental, labor, human rights, bribery and corruption
  laws.
• trained more than 32,000 employees on ti’s ethics and compliance awareness program
  and code of business conduct. we also trained more than 31,500 employees on
  preventing workplace harassment and confidential information protection.

looking ahead: 2014 and beyond
• change how we identify and audit high-risk suppliers to align with eicc protocols.
• continue training select employees on the eicc code of conduct; ethical decision-making;
  export compliance; environmental, safety and health protocols; preventing sexual
  harassment; the foreign corrupt practices act; and how to protect personal information.
• update ti’s code of business conduct, which will be rolled out in early 2015 in e-book
  format, to help educate internal and external stakeholders.


                              ethics office inquiries and contacts*

corporate citizenship at texas instruments starts with employees and is strengthened by people
like you. we welcome your comments and questions through citizenshipreportfeedback@list.ti.com
or through the company’s social media outlets (@aroundti on twitter and texas instruments on
facebook). stay up to date year-round through www.ti.com/citizenship.




        company headquarters
        12500 ti boulevard
        dallas, tx 75243
        www.ti.com



this communication includes some forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from predictions. these “forward-looking statements,” including statements regarding projected revenue and
returns from our products and technology and other descriptions of ti’s expectations, plans, intentions or goals, are intended to qualify
for the safe harbor from liability established by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. please refer to ti’s most recent form
10-k for more information on the risks and uncertainties that could materially affect future results of operations. we disclaim any intention
or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this communication.


the platform bar is a trademark of texas instruments. all other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.



© texas instruments incorporated 2014
