contents of the online report




                                       corporate responsibility
                                                report 2012




                                leading.

  2 corporate responsibility report 2012


     contents




     03 about linde                                    44 employees and society
     03 ceo statement                                  44 employees worldwide
     04 corporate profile                              48 winning and developing talent
     07 about this report                              47 remuneration and social benefits
                                                       48 work-life balance
     9 strategy                                        49 labour and social standards
                                                       50 involving employees
     10 values and standards
                                                       51 diversity and equal opportunities
     11 key material issues
                                                       53 occupational health and safety
     12 stakeholder dialogue
                                                       55 social commitment
     13 responsibilities for sustainability

                                                       57 measuring sustainability
     14 business and governance
                                                       58 financials and compliance
     14 business opportunities (with sustainability)
                                                       60 safety and environmental protection
     18 minimising risks
                                                       63 employees
     19 innovation
                                                       65 goals
     21 linde — a sustainable investment
                                                       70 gri and global compact index
     22 compliance
                                                       80 global compact
     24 sustainable procurement
                                                       83 independent assurance report
                                                       85 legal notice
     26 safety and environmental protection
     29 safety at our sites                             this is the pdf version of the corporate
     30 transport safety                                responsibility report 2012. the full report
                                                        is available online. a summary of the
     31 product stewardship
                                                        report is also available in print.
     33 energy
     35 climate protection                              www.linde.com/cr-report2012

     37 water
     39 raw materials and resources
     40 waste
     42 air emissions
     43 biodiversity




◀ ▶ table of contents

  3 corporate responsibility report 2012




     in the 2012 financial year, we maintained a strong position
     throughout the year despite an increasingly challenging business
     climate. this performance again confirmed our conviction that we
     are on the right path with our business model, which is geared




                                                                                                                         about linde
     towards sustainability. we will remain committed to our strategic
     focus on the megatrends defining society today – energy and the
     environment, healthcare, and the sustained dynamic growth in
     the emerging economies. these trends and markets are directly
     linked to the need for sustainable development. in this report,
     you can read how we embrace sustainability as an integral part of




                                                                                                                         strategy
     our business strategy.


     over the past year, we have focused heavily on the healthcare
     business. here demographic change is driving demand for
     homecare services in particular. the acquisition of the us company




                                                                                                                         business & governance
     lincare gave added impetus to our strong position in this stable
     growth market, making us the leading healthcare provider in the
     gases industry.


     when developing and evolving our technologies, we ask ourselves how we can contribute to environmental
     protection and even more efficient use of valuable natural resources – looking at opportunities both within
     our company and with our customers. our mission is to unite the goals of customer value and sustainable
     development. our “clean technology by linde“ portfolio bundles various process innovations and solutions to
     help master the challenges of climate protection.




                                                                                                                         environment & safety
     to achieve this, we rely on the skills and dedication of our global workforce, now more than 60,000 strong.
     our faith in our employees is well justified, as the results of our second employee survey demonstrate. 86
     percent of all employees took part in the survey. the results show that our people are behind our company,
     relate to our goals and have a very positive impression of our engagement in the area of environmental
     protection and our prioritisation of safety issues. stakeholder trust – and i refer to both internal and external
     stakeholders – is a key pillar for our future success. which is one of the reasons why we fully endorse the
     principles of the un global compact. this corporate responsibility report explains in detail how we embed
     those principles into our business activities. we are of course proud to have gained recognition on several
     occasions in 2012 for our sustainability strategy and the transparency of our sustainability reporting. key




                                                                                                                         employees & society
     achievements include being added to the global dow jones sustainability index.

     in order to report even more clearly and transparently on our sustainability performance, we have added new
     indicators to our external reporting. in our 2012 annual report, we included additional non-financial
     indicators. in addition, we extended the scope of indicators in our corporate responsibility report that are
     assured by an independent auditor. and we set ourselves new global goals in areas such as energy
     efficiency and climate protection. this year is the first time we publish our annual report and our corporate
     responsibility report in the same month – giving you even earlier access to the latest updates on challenges,
     our progress and our plans in the area of sustainability.
                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




     professor dr wolfgang reitzle
     chief executive officer of linde ag




◀ ▶ table of contents

  4 corporate responsibility report 2012


     corporate profile



     the linde group is a world-leading gases and engineering company with approximately 62,000 employees in
     more than 100 countries worldwide. in the 2012 financial year, it generated revenue of eur 15.280 bn. the




                                                                                                                      about linde
     strategy of the linde group is geared towards long-term, profitable growth and focuses on the expansion of
     its international business with forward-looking products and services. linde acts responsibly towards its
     shareholders, business partners, employees, society and the environment – in every one of its business
     areas, regions and locations across the globe. the company is committed to technologies and products that
     unite the goals of customer value and sustainable development.




                                                                                                                      strategy
                                                                                                                      business & governance
                                                                                                                      environment & safety
         americas: 17,954 emplo yees, eur 4,339 millio n sales
         emea (euro pe, middle east and africa): 21,614 emplo yees, eur 7,299 millio n sales

         asia/pacific: 11.037 emplo yees, eur 3,642 millio n sales




                                                                                                                      employees & society
     organisation
     the group comprises three divisions: gases and engineering (the two core divisions) and gist (logistics
     services). the largest division, gases, has three reportable segments – emea (europe, middle east and africa),
     asia/pacific and the americas. these are divided into eight regional business units (rbus). the gases
     division also includes the two global business units (gbus) healthcare (medical gases and related
     maintenance and advisory services) and tonnage (on-site supply of gases to major customers), as well as the
     two business areas (bas) merchant & packaged gases (liquefied and cylinder gases) and electronics
     (electronic gases).
                                                                                                                      measuring sustainability




     gases division
     the linde group is a world leader in the international gases market. the company offers a wide range of
     compressed and liquefied gases as well as chemicals, and is the partner of choice across a huge variety of
     industries. linde gases are used, for example, in the energy sector, steel production, chemical processing,
     environmental protection and welding, as well
     as in food processing, glass production and electronics. the company is also investing in the expansion of its
     fast-growing healthcare business (medical gases), and is a leading global player in the development of
     environmentally friendly hydrogen technologies.




◀ ▶ table of contents

  5 corporate responsibility report 2012


     engineering division
     linde engineering is successful throughout the world, with its focus on promising market segments such as
     olefin, natural gas, air separation, hydrogen and synthesis gas plants. in contrast to virtually all competitors,
     the company can rely on its own extensive process engineering know-how in the planning, project
     development and construction of turnkey industrial plants. linde plants are used in a wide variety of fields: in
     the petrochemical and chemical industries, in refineries and fertiliser plants, to recover air gases, to produce
     hydrogen and synthesis gases, to treat natural gas and in the pharmaceutical industry.




                                                                                                                         about linde
     business review
     in the 2012 financial year, group revenue rose by 10.8 percent to eur 15.280 bn (2011: eur 13.787 bn). after
     adjusting for exchange rate effects, the increase was 6.4 percent. the contribution to revenue made by the
     newly-acquired lincare business was eur 630 m. the share of revenue from joint ventures (not included in




                                                                                                                         strategy
     group revenue in accordance with the accounting rules) was eur 535 m in 2012 (2011: eur 464 m). linde
     achieved an increase in group operating profit (ebitda) of 10.0 percent to eur 3.530 bn (2011: eur 3.210 bn).
     the group operating margin in the 2012 financial year was 23.1 percent, almost as high as the level achieved
     in 2011 of 23.3 percent.




                                                                                                                         business & governance
     the rigorous implementation of hpo, the group’s holistic programme for sustainable process optimisation and
     productivity gains, contributed towards reinforcing linde’s profitability at a high level. in the financial years
     from 2009 to 2012, these activities resulted in total gross cost savings of around eur 780 m.




                                                                                                                         environment & safety
                                                                                                                         employees & society
                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

  6 corporate responsibility report 2012


     linde financial highlights

                                                                                                    january to
                                                                                                december 2012                 2011
     share
     closing price                                                                        €                  132.00         114.95
     year high                                                                            €                  136.15         125.80
     year low                                                                             €                  114.20          96.16




                                                                                                                                                             about linde
     market capitalisation (at year-end closing
     price)                                                                       € million                  24,445         19,663
     adjusted earnings per share1                                                         €                    7.89            7.71
     earnings per share – undiluted                                                       €                    7.03            6.88
     number of shares outstanding                                                (in 000s)              185,189           171,061




                                                                                                                                                             strategy
     group
     revenue                                                                      € million                  15,280         13,787
     operating profit2                                                            € million                   3,530          3,210
     operating margin                                                                     %                    23.1            23.3




                                                                                                                                                             business & governance
     ebit                                                                         € million                   1,992          1,910
     profit for the year                                                          € million                   1,324          1,244

     gases division
     revenue                                                                      € million                  12,591         11,061
     operating profit                                                             € million                   3,403          3,041
     operating margin                                                                     %                    27.0            27.5

     engineering division




                                                                                                                                                             environment & safety
     revenue                                                                      € million                   2,561          2,531
     operating profit                                                             € million                    312              304
     operating margin                                                                     %                    12.2            12.0
     1 adjusted for the effects of the boc purchase price allocation.
     2 ebitda including share of profit or loss from associates and joint ventures.



     > more on linde’s business performance and on hpo in the financial report




                                                                                                                                                             employees & society
     customers
     the linde group manufactures gases and engineers plants for customers in the food and drinks, steel and
     automobile, healthcare, construction, electronics and solar industries. a broad, well-balanced customer base
     ensures stability.


     business segments – gases division

      food &             chemistry &                metallurgy &              manufac​turing         electronics      healthcare      others
      beverages          energy                     glass                     industry
                                                                                                                                                             measuring sustainability




      aquaculture &      energy                     glass & fibre optics      aerospace              solar            hospital care   education & research
      water
      beverages          fine & petro​chemistry     heat treatment            automotive             semi​conductor   homecare        retail
      food               pharma                     non-ferrous               heavy construction &   chip packaging   gas therapies   distributors
                                                                              machinery
      other f&b          other chemistry            steel                     light metal fab. &                      care concepts
                                                                              prod.                                   remeo®
                                                    other m&g                 other manufac​turing




◀ ▶ table of contents

  7 corporate responsibility report 2012


     about this report



     the corporate responsibility report 2012 is linde's eighth sustainability report. in it, we again provide
     information on our sustainability performance, priorities and challenges. global indicators and targets allow




                                                                                                                       about linde
     readers to compare our performance. this report is addressed to the stakeholders of the linde group –
     employees, shareholders, neighbours, customers, business partners, non-governmental organisations
     (ngos), political circles, the research and scientific community, and the general public. the corporate
     reponsibility report 2012 is only available online. the entire document as well as individual chapters can be
     downloaded as a pdf. in addition to the online report, linde also publishes a brochure summarising the
     contents of the report.




                                                                                                                       strategy
     topics, figures, focus areas
     our corporate responsibility reporting covers all main sustainability issues relevant to linde. we follow
     internationally recognised standards on sustainability reporting, such as the global reporting initiative (gri)




                                                                                                                       business & governance
     guidelines and the requirement of the united nations global compact. our choice of corporate
     responsibility priorities is largely guided by the expectations of our customers, shareholders, employees and
     other stakeholders. we regularly assess the relevance of sustainability topics to both our business and these
     stakeholder groups. more information on our materiality analysis can be found under “key material issues”.


     this report relates to all consolidated group companies in which linde has at least a 50 percent stake. in
     2012, linde completed the acquisition of lincare holdings inc. and air products' continental european
     homecare business. indicators for lincare holdings inc. will only be reported after the company has been
     consolidated for a full year, with the exception of data stipulated by financial reporting regulations. in some
     areas, indicators for air products are fully incorporated in this report and are clearly marked. the reporting




                                                                                                                       environment & safety
     period is the 2012 financial year. we also incorporated any additional important information that came to our
     attention prior to the editorial closing date in march 2013, if applicable. we have largely maintained the
     structure of the previous year's report. however, selected topics are covered in more detail or supplemented
     by new key indicators. compliance falls into this category.

     > more on kpis and targets in "measuring sustainability"
     > more on financial reporting in our annual report




                                                                                                                       employees & society
                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

  8 corporate responsibility report 2012


     integrated reporting
     we provide sustainability information in our key corporate publications:

        the management report of the linde group's annual report contains key non-financial indicators and
        qualitative information about sustainable business practices at linde. we have included additional non-
        financial indicators in our 2012 annual report.
        also part of the annual report, the linde annual 2012 focuses also on group products and technologies




                                                                                                                    about linde
        that contribute to healthcare as well as environmental and climate protection.
        the linde group website contains detailed information on the subject of corporate responsibility.
        launched in 2012, linde's clean technology portal offers a new overview of products and technologies
        that help to meet the challenges of climate protection. our product brochures also detail the benefits of
        our technologies in terms of protecting the environment.




                                                                                                                    strategy
        the websites of our gases, engineering and gist divisions also offer information about sustainability in
        relation to specific business activities. additionally, some of linde’s subsidiaries release regional
        publications that address sustainability issues. our afrox subsidiary, for instance, published its first
        sustainability report in 2013, aligned with the gri guidelines.
        our investor relations presentations are available to the public and give detailed accounts of the market




                                                                                                                    business & governance
        opportunities for linde in the areas of energy and environmental technologies.
        we also publish updates on corporate responsibility issues via social media such as twitter and facebook.


     in this report, we include links to these other channels and sources where appropriate.



     assurance and evaluation
     selected key performance indicators in this report were again independently reviewed and subsequently
     assured by kpmg sustainability. the assurance was carried out in line with the international standard on




                                                                                                                    environment & safety
     assurance engagements (isae) 3000. this report complies with the version of the gri's sustainability
     reporting guidelines (g3.1) valid at the time of publication. this independent organisation has again
     confirmed that linde has achieved the highest application level of this standard: a+. our corporate
     responsibility report thus also complies with the requirements of the german sustainability code.

     the corporate responsibility report 2012 also serves as our communication on progress within the
     framework of our commitment to the un global compact. in it, we report on how we incorporate the ten global
     compact principles into our business activities, labelling relevant content with the global compact logo. a
     combined gri and global compact index provides an overview and summary of all the main topics. once




                                                                                                                    employees & society
     again, our cr report complies with the un global compact advanced level. we also take into consideration the
     blueprint for corporate sustainability leadership: an action plan initiated by the global compact lead
     platform.

                                                                                                                    measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

  9 corporate responsibility report 2012


     strategy



     corporate responsibility (cr) is linde’s contribution to sustainable development. as set out in its global
     corporate responsibility policy, the group is committed to behaving responsibly towards people and the




                                                                                                                           about linde
     environment, to conserving natural resources and to developing sustainable products. linde’s corporate
     responsibility management anchors these objectives in day-to-day business life. through our global
     management systems, we incorporate our commitment to sustainability into business processes worldwide.
     we thus put our foundational principle of sustainability into practice. sustainability is one of the four strategic
     principles underlying the linde spirit – our corporate philosophy. the linde spirit defines the values and
     foundational principles of the group and applies to all linde employees throughout the world. our




                                                                                                                           strategy
     sustainability activities are based on the following criteria:


     integration into our core business: when developing its corporate responsibility activities, linde considers its
     main business processes and the lifecycle of its products. we help our customers to develop more
     sustainable processes and expect our contractors and suppliers to join us in working towards our corporate
     responsibility goals.




                                                                                                                           business & governance
     continuous improvement: linde continually analyses how sustainability enables the group to exploit
     business opportunities and to minimise risks. we use key performance indicators to compare sustainability
     performance across the world and set ourselves specific targets.


     engagement with stakeholders: linde adapts its corporate responsibility activities to reflect the needs of its
     stakeholders and of its social environment.


     transparency: the group reports regularly and publicly on the progress it has made in its focus areas for




                                                                                                                           environment & safety
     corporate responsibility.

     we also respect international standards and guidelines, and align our corporate responsibility activities with
     these benchmarks. they include:

        the united nations universal declaration of human rights
        oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises
        the core labour standards set down by the international labour organization (ilo)




                                                                                                                           employees & society
        the un guiding principles on business and human rights
        the ten principles of the un global compact.

                                                                                                                           measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 10 corporate responsibility report 2012


      values and standards



      fixed values and principles form the basis for the way we do business. these are set out in the linde spirit.
      our four key corporate values define how we plan to move towards our goals. and our four fundamental




                                                                                                                      about linde
      principles define issues of key importance in this context – both inside and outside the company.


      values                                             principles




                    passion to excel                                        safety




                                                                                                                      strategy
       we have the commitment and drive to pursue               we do not w ant to harm people.
       ever higher standards of excellence and w e
                    celebrate success.


               innovating for customers                                   integrity




                                                                                                                      business & governance
       we relentlessly pursue new w ays of adding           our actions are honest, fair and ethical.
              value to external customers.


                  empowering people                                    sustainability
       people are given the space to contribute and      we focus on today’s success and accept our
                          grow .                             responsibility for future generations.


               thriving through diversity                                  respect
       diversity results in enriched collaboration and   every human being deserves to be treated w ith
                    enhanced solutions.                                    respect.




                                                                                                                      environment & safety
      our internal guidelines and standards determine how we implement these values and principles throughout
      the company. linde's code of ethics defines clear standards that govern our relationships with each other, as
      well as with customers and suppliers, authorities and other business partners. the code of ethics is binding
      for all employees of the linde group. we also encourage our business partners to uphold the standards it
      describes. our code of ethics is flanked by additional, globally applicable guidelines and standards that
      further outline the group's commitment in core areas, including our:




                                                                                                                      employees & society
         corporate responsibility policy
         group policy on safety, health, environment and quality (sheq)
         procurement principles (ethical-legal principles – procurement)
         compliance guidelines
                                                                                                                      measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 11 corporate responsibility report 2012


      key material issues



      linde is continuously reviewing its focus, identifying topics that are relevant to the sustainability
      management of the group as well as issues of particular interest to our stakeholders. on the basis of this




                                                                                                                      about linde
      materiality analysis, we determine focus areas for our corporate responsibility strategy and reporting. we
      draw on findings from internal workshops with specialists and strategy experts, and on insights from
      interdisciplinary working groups. during this process, we also consider information about environmental and
      social risks identified by our enterprise risk management.


      when selecting focus areas, we follow internationally recognised standards and recommendations in




                                                                                                                      strategy
      sustainability management and reporting, such as the global reporting initiative (gri) and capital market
      requirements for sustainable business practices (sri ratings). in the period under review, key topics for
      corporate responsibility at linde included the responsible supply chain management, environmental goals,
      human rights, and labour and social standards. these aspects played a particular role in developing our focus
      further. at the start of 2013, for instance, linde defined new goals for energy efficiency and climate
      protection.




                                                                                                                      business & governance
      > more on energy efficiency
      > more on gri




                                                                                                                      environment & safety
                                                                                                                      employees & society
                                                                                                                      measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 12 corporate responsibility report 2012


      stakeholder dialogue



      the group maintains regular contact with its key stakeholders in a number of different ways. these include
      linde employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, non-governmental organisations, politicians, the




                                                                                                                       about linde
      research and scientific community, neighbours and the general public.


      the group’s corporate responsibility department responded to over 1,600 questions from stakeholders on
      sustainability issues during the reporting year. main issues raised concerned environmental topics, corporate
      governance or the supply chain. linde is also actively involved in dialogues on specialist topics. in germany,
      for instance, the group hosted the federal algae roundtable meeting (bundesalgenstammtisch) in 2012,




                                                                                                                       strategy
      gathering more than 150 experts from science and industry to discuss renewable raw materials. in terms of
      political discourse, the transformation of our energy systems was a key issue in the period under review, with
      the focus on clean, efficient solutions – such as clean technology by linde. the group also collaborated with
      industry associations in the drive to ensure a cost-effective and environmentally friendly energy supply, as
      well as sustainable solutions in the mobility and transport sector.




                                                                                                                       business & governance
                                                    our involvement in trade associations and scientific

      1,600              stakeholder
                         questions
                                                    partnerships enables us to learn from the experiences of others
                                                    and to develop joint solutions and positions regarding
      answered                                      sustainability to topics such as climate protection and the safe
                                                    handling of gases. linde plays an active role in industry and
      business associations at national, european and international level. among these are the german chemical
      industry association (vci), the german engineering federation (vdma), the european industrial gases
      association (eiga) and the asia industrial gases association (aiga). the group is also a member of selected
      corporate responsibility networks. these include the un global compact and econsense (forum for




                                                                                                                       environment & safety
      sustainable development of german business e.v.).


      linde collaborates with partners in science and with other companies to push forward initiatives aimed at
      securing sustainable development. the linde group is one of the founding members of the clean energy
      partnership (cep), for instance: the largest demonstration project for hydrogen-based mobility in europe. this
      has been funded by germany’s federal ministry of transport, building and urban development (bmvbs) since
      2008. further cep partners include technology, petroleum and energy groups as well as major car
      manufacturers and two leading public transport operators. additionally, linde joined forces with two other
      companies to set up a pilot project in the area of wind-hydrogen in 2012. the plan is to produce hydrogen via
      electrolysis from wind energy in what is known as a multi-energy filling station at the german capital’s




                                                                                                                       employees & society
      prospective new airport, berlin brandenburg.

      linde is also a member of organisations dedicated to issues such as environmental protection and
      occupational health and safety. these include the institute of professional environmental practice (ipep) in
      north america, the korea environmental preservation association (kepa) and the green network in denmark.

      > more on dialogue with shareholders
      > more on linde’s hydrogen projects in the annual report
                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 13 corporate responsibility report 2012


      responsibilities for sustainability



      linde's main decision-making body for sustainability issues is the corporate responsibility council. its
      members are professor dr wolfgang reitzle, chief executive officer, and professor dr aldo belloni, member of




                                                                                                                       about linde
      the executive board, together with the heads of the group’s global support functions: communications &
      investor relations, hr, legal & compliance, internal audit and sheq. the council is briefed annually on the
      progress made in achieving sustainability goals and determines focus areas for the group’s global corporate
      responsibility strategy. in 2012, the corporate responsibility council discussed such issues as sustainability
      in the supply chain and human rights.




                                                                                                                       strategy
      organisation


                         experts in business units, divisions and regions
                                                   +
                                interdisciplinary working groups




                                                                                                                       business & governance
                                     corporate responsibility




                                     corporate responsibility
                                            council
                         chief executive officer professor dr wolfgang reitzle;
                        member of the executive board professor dr aldo belloni;




                                                                                                                       environment & safety
                                  heads of global and central functions
                        communications & investor relations, human resources,
                                internal audit, legal & compliance, sheq




      the corporate responsibility department coordinates the implementation of the global sustainability strategy,
      liaising with the relevant departments and those responsible for corporate responsibility topics in the
      regions, and is also the central point of contact for stakeholders. at the end of 2012, linde conducted an
      internal survey across all regions on sustainability topics. these included regional focus areas on




                                                                                                                       employees & society
      sustainability, collaborations and strategic projects in the area of corporate citizenship.




                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 14 corporate responsibility report 2012


      business opportunities with sustainability




        ~12,000                                2,000                                 +10%




                                                                                                                       about linde
        new employees in our                   employees in china and                annual growth rates in the
        healthcare business                    india trained on safety and           global market for liquefied
                                               environmental protection              natural gas




                                                                                                                       strategy
        no. 1                                  1,000,000 eur 4.5 bn
        healthcare provider in the             patients                              growth markets revenue
        global gases industry




                                                                                                                       business & governance
        -80%                                   70%                                   ~50%
        emissions using hydrogen               of senior managers in china,          of capex invested in growth
        from regenerative sources              india and southeast asia are          markets
                                               from the region




                                                                                                                       environment & safety
      linde develops solutions that unite customer value with the goals of sustainable development. looking at
      the growth markets of the future, linde has identified energy and the environment, emerging economies and
      the healthcare business as the drivers offering the biggest potential. our business strategy aligns with these
      three megatrends – all of them having a high relevance for sustainable development.




                                                                                                                       employees & society
                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 15 corporate responsibility report 2012


      energy and the environment: advancing the use of eco-friendly fuels
      linde is driving the advancement of alternative energy carriers on several fronts. we partner with various
      companies, for instance, to develop processes that convert regenerative raw materials into fuel. feedstocks
      include landfill gases and specially cultivated algae, which produce green crude. we also focus on the
      production of green hydrogen using energy from renewable sources. at the same time, we are seeing a rise
      in demand for liquefied natural gas (lng). with the lowest emissions of all fossil fuels, lng is growing in
      popularity as an environmentally friendly alternative for various industrial applications. it is also being used
      to generate electricity. compared to crude oil or coal, it releases up to 30 percent less carbon dioxide when




                                                                                                                                 about linde
      burnt. a change in environmental regulations in the shipping industry means that another new market for lng
      is emerging – and linde is spearheading its development.



                                                  by switching from fuel oil to natural gas, shipping com panies can
                                                  significantly reduce em issions of co 2, sulphur and nitrogen oxides. in




                                                                                                                                 strategy
                                                  anticipation of rising dem and in this area, linde form ed a joint venture
                                                  with ham burg-based m arine fuel specialist bom in in august 2012. the joint
                                                  venture plans to construct sm all lng term inals in ports such as ham burg
                                                  and brem erhaven, for instance. these term inals will provide the
                                                  infrastructure necessary for shipping com panies to switch to a m ore
                                                  environm entally sound source of power.




                                                                                                                                 business & governance
                                                  full repo rt in the linde annual 2012




      > more on hydrogen from renewable sources of energy




                                                                                                                                 environment & safety
                                                                                                                                 employees & society
                                                                                                                                 measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 16 corporate responsibility report 2012


      healthcare: living an independent life
      worldwide, the homecare market is growing due to shifting demographics. the term respiratory homecare
      refers to medical gases, services and therapies delivered beyond a clinical setting to patients suffering from
      conditions such as chronic respiratory pulmonary disorder. linde offers respiratory therapies such as oxygen
      therapy and sleep therapy. following its acquisition of air products continental european homecare business
      and the leading us homecare company lincare, linde is now the leading healthcare provider in the gases
      industry. in 2012, linde generated more than eur 2 billion with its healthcare business.




                                                                                                                                about linde
                                                  luisa branco lives in portugal and has a chronic lung disease. previously,
                                                  the 59 year-old had to be treated in hospital. today, however, she can live
                                                  a largely independent life – thanks to linde’s m obile oxygen services.




                                                                                                                                strategy
                                                  linde hom ecare expert joão mendez, regularly visits luisa at hom e to
                                                  m ake sure her oxygen equipm ent is running sm oothly.


                                                  full repo rt in the linde annual 2012




                                                                                                                                business & governance
                                                                                                                                environment & safety
                                                                                                                                employees & society
                                                                                                                                measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 17 corporate responsibility report 2012


      emerging economies: growing together
      diversity and efficiency: linde builds on the expertise of local specialists, who know the regional market and
      understand individual customer needs. this local competence is backed by international teams working on
      technical solutions for global use. projects such as this include a cross-country engagement in germany and
      china aimed at finding a new, more efficient way to build air separation plants. the market potential is
      certainly promising: global investment in air separation facilities totals around three billion euros each year,
      with asia accounting for 75 percent of that sum.




                                                                                                                                    about linde
                                                   linde engineers in g erm any and china working on standardised m odules
                                                   to build air separation plants: s ince 2012, a team in pullach, g erm any, has
                                                   been concentrating on the m odules m ade from com ponents procured from




                                                                                                                                    strategy
                                                   european suppliers. s im ultaneously the hangzhou team in china is focused
                                                   on m odule engineering using com ponents m ainly purchased on the
                                                   chinese m arket.


                                                   full repo rt in the linde annual 2012




                                                                                                                                    business & governance
      > more on diversity at linde
      > more on safety, environmental and health training




                                                                                                                                    environment & safety
                                                                                                                                    employees & society
                                                                                                                                    measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 18 corporate responsibility report 2012


      minimising risks



      at linde, we have implemented systems that enable us to identify, evaluate and minimise risks in all our
      central business processes. our enterprise risk management (erm) system covers financial, environmental




                                                                                                                            about linde
      and social risks. these also include safety, hr, legal and regulatory risk factors, along with risks resulting from
      political or social upheaval, pandemics and climate change. in 2011, we defined our risk categories relating to
      human rights and social issues more clearly.

      we use our sheq management systems to monitor compliance with standards in the areas of safety,
      environmental protection and occupational health, setting up preventative measures and emergency plans




                                                                                                                            strategy
      as required. during the year under review, we conducted another survey to assess labour and social
      standards across all regions. we also expanded our global compliance programme to ensure adherence to
      legal regulations.

      our risk management measures are closely aligned with the individual processes in the various lines of




                                                                                                                            business & governance
      business. we routinely involve business partners and neighbours in our risk analyses. we also embed the
      need for compliance with safety, environmental and social standards into our supply chain, for instance.
      maintaining continuous dialogue with our stakeholders enables us to identify new issues at an early stage
      and assess their relevance for our business activities.


      > more on risk management in our annual report
      > more on safety and environmental protection
      > more on labour standards and human rights
      > more on compliance and supply chain management
      > more on our materiality analysis




                                                                                                                            environment & safety
      responsibility along the value chain




      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                            employees & society
                                                                                                                            measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 19 corporate responsibility report 2012


      innovation



      we continuously develop new application areas for our gases and improve our processes and plant
      technologies even further. in 2012, linde spent a total of eur 101 million on research and development




                                                                                                                         about linde
      (2011: eur 98 million). the number of employees working in this field rose to 385 (2011: 342). the group filed
      269 new patents worldwide during the year under review (2011: 235), leaving linde technologies protected
      by a total of 2,513 patents at the end of 2012.

                                                     we develop new applications in the context of business orders

      2,513               patents protect            and therefore work closely with the respective customers,




                                                                                                                         strategy
                          linde technologies         taking their concrete needs into account. our research activities
                                                     have a particular focus on the environmental impact of
      production processes. here, we concentrate on making technical processes and plants more energy-efficient
      and reducing emissions – in our own and our customers’ manufacturing processes. in 2012, for instance, linde
      developed a process for reducing emissions of environmentally harmful nitrogen oxides during glass
      manufacturing. to advance the transition towards climate-friendly energy supplies and mobility options, we




                                                                                                                         business & governance
      are researching processes to generate hydrogen or green fuel from renewable raw materials. linde is
      working with an industry partner to test a technology that converts a broad spectrum of biogenic raw
      materials into synthesis gas. the company has also made further improvements to the carbo-v ® technology.
      this process converts wood and wood biomass, which can already be obtained in a way that conserves
      resources and does not compete with food production, into biofuels, such as biodiesel.


      research and development

                                                          2012       2011       2010        2009




                                                                                                                         environment & safety
      research and development expenses      € million     101         98         94          89
      new patents filed                                    269        235        232        230


      in china, linde advanced the installation of a metal and glass research centre during the reporting year.
      meanwhile, in norway, we opened our own research and innovation centre devoted to the long-term
      optimisation of oxygen supplies for fish farms.


      we also intensified our activities in the central clean energy group in 2012. this team, which operates across
      different business areas, develops innovative products and processes that help to make renewable energies




                                                                                                                         employees & society
      economically viable, reduce the consumption of natural resources and cut emissions that are harmful to the
      climate.


                                                      at linde, we systematically promote a culture of creativity and

      140           award winners in the
                    linde innovators club
                                                      innovation. in 2012, linde gave the linde group patent &
                                                      innovation award to the best innovations for the seventh time.
                                                      in this way, we recognised the best patents registered during
      the year in each of the following categories: technological invention, commercial invention and group
      innovation. the award-winning patent applications are often directly linked to environmental and climate
                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




      protection. examples include innovations in the field of renewable energy as well as new technologies to
      increase plant efficiency. the winners of this award join the linde innovators club, which now has around 140
      members.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 20 corporate responsibility report 2012


      to heighten employee awareness of the crucial importance of innovation, 2012 saw the staging of the first
      linde technology day. as part of this event, a new career model for employees working in research and
      development was unveiled. this aims to promote innovative approaches and ensure even greater reward for
      outstanding performance.


      > more on innovation in our annual report

      responsibility along the value chain




                                                                                                                          about linde
                                                                                                                          strategy
      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                          business & governance
                                                                                                                          environment & safety
                                                                                                                          employees & society
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 21 corporate responsibility report 2012


      linde - a sustainable investment



      the capital market assesses the sustainability performance of companies by ranking investments according to
      environmental and social criteria, also considering responsible business practices (socially responsible




                                                                                                                           about linde
      investment, sri).


                                                  in 2012, linde globally conducted more than 700 individual

      700
                                                  conversations with financial analysts and investors. during 41
                                                  conferences and roadshows, at several private investor events
      individual talks with financial analys ts   and in the course of plant visits, we offered our shareholders




                                                                                                                           strategy
      and inves tors                              and potential investors the opportunity to speak with
                                                  representatives of the group, including members of the
      executive board. we presented the sustainability opportunities of our “clean technology” portfolio and our
      expanding healthcare business at all these events.




                                                                                                                           business & governance
      among linde's shareholders, the proportion of sri investors rose to over 4 percent in the period under review
      (2011: 3 percent). more than half of our ten largest shareholders publicly commit to the united nations'
      principles of responsible investment (un pri).

                                                    linde is listed in various key sustainability indices and sri

      >4%
      of our inves tors are focus ed on
                                                    ratings. in september 2012, linde was added to the global dow
                                                    jones sustainability index (djsi world). analysts from the
                                                    sustainable asset management (sam) group thereby
      s us tainability                              acknowledged linde's continuous improvement in the area of
                                                    sustainability. we received particular recognition for activities in




                                                                                                                           environment & safety
      the areas of climate strategy, environmental management systems, and risk and crisis management. linde
      was also added to deutsche börse's stoxx® global esg leaders index in the year under review. additionally,
      in an analysis of 101 chemical companies conducted by the specialist sustainability rating agency oekom
      research, linde received the top ranking in 2012.




                                                                                                                           employees & society
                                                                                                                           measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 22 corporate responsibility report 2012


      corporate governance



      responsible corporate governance is fundamental to our sustainable success. linde ag follows the german
      corporate governance code presented by the government commission and as amended from time to time. we




                                                                                                                         about linde
      comply with the code’s guidelines to the greatest possible extent and explain any deviations in our annual
      report.


      compliance at linde                            responsible corporate governance also means ensuring that
                                                     legal regulations and voluntary commitments are upheld. we
                       prevent
                                                     have therefore continuously expanded our global compliance




                                                                                                                         strategy
                                                     programme. our aim here is to prevent any violations. if these
                  global code of ethics              do occur, we want to identify them as quickly as possible and
                   compliance policies               take the appropriate action. this requires clear rules, informed
          guidance from international standards      employees and a global compliance system that enables us to
                       e-learning                    identify and tackle suspected misconduct.




                                                                                                                         business & governance
                  face-to-face training
             advice by compliance officers           the chief compliance officer is responsible for implementing
                                                     linde's compliance programme, supported by compliance
                            /                        officers in the divisions, regions and operating segments. the
                                                     executive board and the audit committee of the supervisory
                        detect                       board receive regular updates about the activities and
                   linde integrity line              progress of the compliance organisation.
            compliance investigations/audits
                                                   the core guidelines governing the way we do business are set
                            /                      out in our code of ethics, which is binding for all employees




                                                                                                                         environment & safety
                                                   worldwide. this is supplemented by further guidelines on
                         respond                   specific issues. linde’s group-wide compliance activities
           follow up on reports of misconduct      focus on anti-trust law, corruption prevention, trade law and
                monitoring of actions taken
                                                   data protection, for instance. in 2012, we adopted a new
               (consequence management)            global guideline on preventing corruption, which came into
               cooperation w ith authorities       force at the start of 2013. when expanding our compliance
                                                   programme, we also follow the recommendations of the united
      nation’s global compact as well as transparency international’s business principles for countering bribery.




                                                                                                                         employees & society
      information and training
      we take various steps to create an environment in which our employees are familiar with and adhere to our
      rules and guidelines. new staff members receive a copy of our code of ethics when they join the company, for
      instance, and confirm that they have understood it. in 2012, we published further translations of the code of
      ethics, which is now available in 28 languages. linde also set up a new intranet compliance portal during the
      reporting year, making current information about compliance guidelines and contact persons even more
      accessible to employees.
                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




                                                      we also train our staff on the contents of our code of ethics in

      36,000
      e-learning cours es on the linde code
                                                      classroom-based courses and our group-wide e-learning
                                                      platform. by the end of 2012, we had held more than 36,000 e-
                                                      learning sessions for this purpose. and between 2009 and
      of ethics s ince the training was               2012, over 6,000 members of staff across the globe were
      launched                                        provided with on-site training. in 2012, linde launched a new
                                                      online training course on anti-trust law, in which 3,500
      employees have already participated. to gather information on the success of our compliance measures, we
      also covered integrity as a topic in our global employee survey in 2012.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 23 corporate responsibility report 2012


      identifying and tackling misconduct
      we actively encourage our employees to report any suspected violations of our code of ethics or other group
      guidelines and offer them advice on compliance issues. staff can approach their direct line manager or
      department head to this end, or contact a representative from the internal audit, human resources or legal &
      compliance departments.


      the linde integrity line, our global reporting system, is one of the key pillars of our compliance programme. it




                                                                                                                            about linde
      enables employees and external stakeholders to report suspected violations, anonymously if desired. every
      report is assessed and forwarded to the linde integrity committee where appropriate. the committee
      comprises members of the internal audit, legal & compliance, corporate responsibility and human resources
      departments. the linde integrity committee examines the reports and determines further courses of action.
      our integrity line policy outlines the exact process to be followed and ensures that reports remain
      confidential and data is protected.




                                                                                                                            strategy
      in 2012, the integrity line was contacted a total of 309 times, by e-mail, telephone, web portal or regular
      post. each of these communications was assessed to determine whether it entailed a general enquiry or an
      allegation of misconduct. all concrete accusations were investigated and largely related to personnel topics
      (approximately 43 percent) and to offences against property (approximately 25 percent). we also followed up
      on reports involving possible conflicts of interest (around 16 percent) and cases of discrimination




                                                                                                                            business & governance
      (approximately 3 percent). in 2012, the internal audit department, human resources, legal & compliance and
      the department for safety, health, environment and quality (sheq) carried out 77 investigations on the basis
      of information received via the integrity line (2011: 54 investigations).


      linde employees who violate laws or internal regulations must be prepared to face sanctions. consequences
      following violations can range from dismissal to criminal prosecution or civil action. if an internal investigation
      reveals that a report is substantiated, we subsequently explore the measures that have already been
      implemented – following a set process and timeframe. the responsible line managers are involved in this
      process and provide their input in every case. all such cases entailed consequences. these included training
      courses, official warnings, reassignment of the employees in question and restructuring measures. in some




                                                                                                                            environment & safety
      cases, the employees in question were dismissed. if our compliance systems uncover any circumstances or
      events that appear to breach criminal or anti-trust law, we also cooperate closely with the responsible
      authorities where applicable.


      > more on corporate governance in our annual report
      > more on our guidelines and values
      > more on the integrity line on linde's website
      > more on legal proceedings in our annual report




                                                                                                                            employees & society
                                                                                                                            measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 24 corporate responsibility report 2012


      sustainable procurement



      linde works with suppliers in more than one hundred countries. in 2012, we purchased around eur 10.9
      billion (2011: approx. eur 10.7 billion) worth of products and services from around 100,000 suppliers




                                                                                                                            about linde
      worldwide. around eur 9.2 billion of this amount related to the gases division and around eur 1.7 billion to
      the engineering division. more than 70 percent of the total was spent in oecd countries. in non-oecd
      countries, china, south africa and brazil accounted for approximately 15 percent of the total purchasing
      volume of our gases division.


      the most important items we purchase include energy, gas cylinders and valves, tanks and tank equipment,




                                                                                                                            strategy
      vehicles, it products, and components for engineering projects, as well as various services. in 2012, linde
      started several new projects to enhance procurement efficiency and make procurement management systems
      even more transparent. improving energy management was one of the focus areas here.




                                                                                                                            business & governance
      sustainability standards
      alongside commercial aspects such as quality, price and availability, we also take account of other
      sustainability aspects when selecting suppliers. our code of ethics requires that linde employees maintain
      fair and honest working relationships with suppliers. at the same time, we expect our suppliers to adhere to
      quality, environmental and social standards, as well as compliance regulations. these expectations are set
      down in our procurement guidelines. we inform suppliers of specific requirements. in 2013, we intend to
      expand the sustainability requirements for suppliers that are currently in force in the different divisions and
      merge them into a single guideline.

                                                      we use various tools and measures to select and evaluate our




                                                                                                                            environment & safety
      200
      new engineering s uppliers committed
                                                      suppliers. these include on-site audits and defined
                                                      qualification processes for new suppliers, which entail self-
                                                      assessments on quality, environmental and social issues. we
      to linde s tandard                              also perform risk assessments to check compliance with
                                                      standards. in the 2012 financial year, linde conducted an
      analysis of sustainability risks in the supply chain. it is planned that a more in-depth analysis will follow in
      the course of 2013. depending on the potential risks, we also carry out supplier assessments on site, for
      instance through quality audits that incorporate sustainability aspects. site safety, for instance, is a particular
      priority for our engineering division, with construction projects all over the world. linde has therefore




                                                                                                                            employees & society
      implemented a standard that covers safety, health and environmental issues in engineering projects and
      made this a fundamental prerequisite for working with suppliers. it also addresses compliance with the
      principles set out in the un global compact. in 2012, more than 200 suppliers for engineering projects were
      given this standard and confirmed that they understood its requirements. during the year under review, linde
      conducted around 100 audits of engineering suppliers to check compliance with this standard – for instance
      in india and china. suspected violations of linde standards can also be reported to the linde integrity line. all
      such reports of non-compliance along our supply chain are assessed. allegations that prove to be
      substantiated may also result in termination of contracts with suppliers.
                                                                                                                            measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 25 corporate responsibility report 2012


      raising staff and supplier awareness
      to raise awareness of the importance of supply chain sustainability among staff in our procurement
      departments, we integrated a new information portal on this topic into our company intranet at the start of
      2013. we also involve our service providers in our environmental and safety management activities, for
      instance by offering driver safety training courses for contractors commissioned by linde to transport gases.


      > more on driver trainings




                                                                                                                          about linde
      > more on climate protection

      responsibility along the value chain




                                                                                                                          strategy
      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                          business & governance
                                                                                                                          environment & safety
                                                                                                                          employees & society
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 26 corporate responsibility report 2012


      safety and environmental protection




        190                                    12%                                     1 million




                                                                                                                        about linde
        energy efficiency projects             fewer transport incidents               tonnes of co2 saved by
                                               since 2010                              improving energy intensity at
                                                                                       air separation plants




                                                                                                                        strategy
        1,400                                  80%                                     49%
        audits for environmental               of linde sites certified to             of employees trained on
        protection, safety and                 iso 9001 quality standard               environmental protection
        occupational health                                                            and safety




                                                                                                                        business & governance
      safety is a top priority for us, both in our own business processes and the use of our products by customers.
      the aim of the group-wide safety and environmental protection management systems is to keep people and
      the environment from harm. we are focused on minimising safety risks, minimising the group’s environmental
      impact and ensuring the efficient use of energy, resources and materials. our innovative technologies and
      products help our customers tackle ecological challenges, such as climate protection and water resource
      management. our safety and environmental management systems also extend to contractors and other
      business partners. to further improve our performance in these areas, we continuously assess potential




                                                                                                                        environment & safety
      weak points, conduct risk analyses and implement concrete risk mitigation measures.


      linde has also implemented a global process to record, evaluate and communicate safety, health,
      environment and quality incidents worldwide. near-misses from which the group can learn lessons for the
      future are also recorded in this way. in 2012, the group circulated 38 information sheets internally with a
      description of the relevant incident or near-miss, the main reasons for its occurrence and the measures
      introduced as a result. in addition, we prepare global risk avoidance plans. these are designed to protect
      employees and neighbours, as well as the group’s property and information.




                                                                                                                        employees & society
      alongside safety indicators, we measure resource consumption and environmental impact at all sites around
      the globe. we thereby maintain a steady focus on efficient business practices and on minimising the
      ecological impact of our operations. between 2008 and 2012, we conducted around 1,000 environmental
      protection projects, of which 300 were during the reporting year. areas of particular priority in 2012 included
      efforts to reduce water consumption.                                                                              measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 27 corporate responsibility report 2012


      audits, trainings and certified sites (in percent)

                                                                                            2012                2011   2010   2009
      sites w here occupational health and safety audits
      have been conducted 1                                                                 62.4                54.5   53.2   55.1
      sites w here environmental audits have been
      conducted 1                                                                           53.6                49.1   47.8   48.3
      employees of linde gas w ho have taken up hse




                                                                                                                                     about linde
      training opportunities                                                                49.1                50.3   47.2   48.8
      sites certified to iso 9001                                                              80                76     72     71
      sites certified to iso 14001                                                             31                33     28     27
      sites certified to ohsas 18001 or scc                                                    25                22     22     22
      1 the figures disclosed relate to internal and external audits conducted at production sites worldwide.




                                                                                                                                     strategy
      audits and certifications
      linde has developed global guidelines and standards for safety and environmental protection. we verify
      compliance with these voluntary commitments and legal requirements through audits. in 2012, more than




                                                                                                                                     business & governance
      1,400 safety, environmental protection and health protection audits were carried out at linde sites, either by
      the group itself or by third parties. occupational health and safety audits were performed at more than 62
      percent of our sites, and environmental audits at around 54 percent. linde’s internal audits follow norms such
      as the iso 9001, iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 international standards on quality, environmental management
      and health protection. external certification also endorses the high standard of the group’s safety,
      environmental protection and quality systems:

           during the year under review, 80 percent of our sites were certified to iso 9001, the set of international
           standards for quality management (2011: 76 percent).
           31 percent of linde sites were certified to the international environmental management standard iso




                                                                                                                                     environment & safety
           14001 in the reporting year (2011: 33 percent).
           25 percent of our sites hold certification in accordance with the ohsas 18001 or scc (safety certification
           contractors) standards for their systematic health and safety management system (2011: 22 percent).
           over 220 of our sites were awarded responsible care certification as a hallmark of acting responsibly
           regarding safety, environmental and health protection during the year under review.
           all linde gas germany production sites were certified to the new iso 50001 standard in 2012, confirming a
           systematic approach to energy management with well-defined aims and responsibilities.




                                                                                                                                     employees & society
           since 2011, almost 100 percent of linde sites delivering carbon dioxide to the beverages industry have
           been externally certified within the framework of the global food safety initiative (gfsi) – which
           incorporates the iso 22000 food safety standard – proving compliance with the relevant quality standards
           for gases as food additives or processing aids.




      raising environmental protection and safety awareness
      linde systematically trains staff in the areas of occupational health and safety, as well as in product safety
                                                                                                                                     measuring sustainability




      and environmental risks. almost half of our employees in the gases division participated in training courses in
      these areas during the year under review. moreover, we devise schemes to raise employees' awareness of
      safety and environmental issues and to encourage them to display greater initiative in these areas. in 2012,
      for example, linde held employee workshops worldwide on how to handle acetylene safely.

      > more on trainings on transport safety




◀ ▶ table of contents

 28 corporate responsibility report 2012


      collaboration and awards
      when it comes to safety and environment, we also work with local communities. in 2012, for instance, linde
      launched a series of safety talks in china at the invitation of local authorities. in poland, we exchanged
      knowledge with the regional fire brigades about the safe handling of gas cylinders and potential response
      plans in accidents involving acetylene. the group provided training materials to around 300 firefighters here.


      linde received various awards during 2012 in recognition of its environmental and safety management




                                                                                                                          about linde
      activities, including its successful approach to safety management in thailand and its responsible handling of
      hazardous substances in china. the european industrial gases association (eiga) also presented awards to
      several linde sites in acknowledgement of safety excellence.



      complaints related to the environment




                                                                                                                          strategy
      we consistently follow up on suggestions for improvement. during the reporting year, we received 14
      environment-related complaints (2011: 28). these mainly concerned noise levels. in addition, 29
      environmental incidents occurred that had to be reported to the authorities (2011: 32). these resulted in
      small environmental fines and warning fees amounting to around eur 29,000 (2011: eur 84,300).




                                                                                                                          business & governance
      responsibility along the value chain




      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                          environment & safety
                                                                                                                          employees & society
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 29 corporate responsibility report 2012


      safety at our sites



      risk to our employees, local residents or neighbouring companies from the operation of plants are
      identified and evaluated on the basis of an established process. in addition, over the past few years we




                                                                                                                          about linde
      have introduced a group-wide management system so that major potential hazards at our plants can be
      recorded on a uniform basis worldwide. this programme, known as the major hazards review programme
      (mhrp), sets out the control mechanisms we have designed to limit these risks as far as possible.

                                                     by the end of 2012, 67 percent of the sites concerned had been

      67%         of sites concerned                 certified in accordance with the mhrp. in order to be prepared




                                                                                                                          strategy
                  certified to the major             for critical incidents, the group has set up emergency plans on a
      hazard review programme                        global scale. these take into account major adverse events
                                                     such as fires and explosions, whilst also considering the
      potential impact of natural disasters, crime and pandemics on the group’s sites and business processes. so
      that the group can react to these events, responsibilities have been allocated and decision-making channels
      have been established at local, regional and group-wide level. during the reporting year, we introduced a




                                                                                                                          business & governance
      new global guideline relating to the safety of employees who work in buildings on production sites. this
      guideline defines standards for identifying risks within the buildings and sets out measures to take in order
      to minimise the impact in the event of emergencies such as explosions.


      responsibility along the value chain




                                                                                                                          environment & safety
      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                          employees & society
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 30 corporate responsibility report 2012


      transport safety



      transport incidents are one of the key safety issues that linde focuses on. we are continuously working to
      further reduce the number and frequency of transport-related incidents, both in our own transport operations




                                                                                                                          about linde
      and in transport services provided by third parties. the number of serious transport incidents per million
      kilometres driven decreased again in the year under review, to 0.075 (2011: 0.077). as part of the global
      package of improvement measures for transport safety, we have set ourselves four goals:

           to adopt all local and global minimum operating standards for transport and integrate them into the
           group’s global standards database




                                                                                                                          strategy
           to provide our employees and transport contractors concerned with training in these revised standards
           to introduce an audit programme to verify compliance with these operating standards
           to implement a new behavioural safety training for drivers, entitled “actsafe for drivers”




                                                                                                                          business & governance
                                                      we have determined a timeline for each of these goals. by the
        new goal                                      end of 2015, the aim is to have audited at least 60 percent of
                                                      linde sites with transport operations to determine the level of

         -50%
        frequency rate of s erious trans port
                                                      compliance with the standards. the actsafe for drivers training
                                                      scheme is scheduled for implementation in at least 30 percent
                                                      of sites by 2015. in africa, for instance, more than 260 drivers
        incidents by 2017                             received training by the end of 2012. over 20 percent of drivers
                                                      employed by linde and contractors participated in the new
      actsafe training courses within pilot projects since 2009. in the course of 2012, we also trained and certified
      40 transport auditors.




                                                                                                                          environment & safety
      we also provide practical rollover prevention training for drivers of heavy goods vehicles, which we extended
      to eastern europe and south africa during the year under review. it is scheduled for implementation in brazil
      and india during 2014. linde also set itself a new, global transport safety target during the reporting year: to
      halve the frequency rate of serious transport incidents by the end of 2017 (in comparison with 2012 figures).


      we systematically promote safe transport practices at linde. since 2007, our subsidiary in china has
      presented annual awards to drivers with the year's best safety records, for instance. the group also works
      closely with communities and authorities on transport safety. in 2012, for example, linde joined forces with




                                                                                                                          employees & society
      local authorities in bangladesh to conduct an emergency response exercise for transport incidents.


      > information on measures to reduce transport emissions

      responsibility along the value chain
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




◀ ▶ table of contents

 31 corporate responsibility report 2012


      product stewardship




                                                                                                                              about linde
      strategy
      linde systematically identifies and controls risks along the product value chain, from the procurement of
      materials to production through to use by the customer. to this end, we analyse such aspects as the
      ecological impact and toxicity of substances. linde documents the results in a database, which also serves as
      a central source of facts and figures for transport safety measures and for the preparation of safety
      information for customers and the general public.




                                                                                                                              strategy
                                                       when developing our safety measures, we consider the entire

      2,200          participants
                     completed
                                                       lifecycle of our products. our global guideline on product
                                                       stewardship underpins our activities in this area. we conduct
      our customer safety trainings.                   audits globally to determine the level of compliance with this




                                                                                                                              business & governance
                                                       standard. by the end of 2012, we additionally had conducted
      product stewardship assessment in 12 countries, thus covering around 60 percent of our packaged chemicals
      business activities. we also train our staff in product safety issues.


      linde provides more than 18,000 product safety datasheets, available in all the languages of the countries in
      which we operate. customers and the general public can easily access these online, along with other
      information about our products. we also offer safety training to our customers. in germany and austria, for
      example, linde ran training sessions for around 2,200 participants during the reporting year on the
      responsible handling of gases, holding 113 seminars dedicated to its own customer safety programme,
      liprotect®. in malaysia, we supported a seminar on the safe packaging of gases in 2012 for around




                                                                                                                              environment & safety
      200 customers and distributors. a range of services covering all aspects of the supply of gases is also
      available, extending from hazard assessment through to inspection, maintenance and repairs.


                                                     depending on the risk, specially trained linde staff assess

      530                   safety audits completed
                            at customer sites
                                                     whether the conditions are in place for proper gas handling
                                                     prior to delivery to the customer’s site. in 2012, we carried out
                                                     around 530 audits of this kind at customer sites. in addition, our
      emergency teams are available to support customers should help be required. this is also the case outside
      business hours or at weekends. for its comprehensive services enabling the safe supply of gases, linde gas




                                                                                                                              employees & society
      germany received its fifth consecutive quality certificate from tüv in 2012.


      responsibility along the value chain

                                                                                                                              measuring sustainability




      ar ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e a r e h ig h lig h ted




◀ ▶ table of contents

 32 corporate responsibility report 2012


      international standards and legal requirements
      our product stewardship programme extends well beyond statutory requirements. with this programme, linde
      also supports the global product strategy (gps) devised by the international council of chemical associations
      for the safe handling of chemical substances and the united nations’ globally harmonised system of
      classification and labelling of chemicals (ghs).


      additionally, linde complies with the requirements of reach, the eu regulation on chemicals. to achieve this,




                                                                                                                      about linde
      the group has established a dedicated team of more than 30 experts across europe. by 2013, we will have
      registered 5 substances under the reach regulations. on our reach internet portal, we provide detailed
      information on how we are meeting our legal obligations, which substances we have registered, and how we
      inform our customers and suppliers about this. linde is also actively working with the european industrial
      gases association (eiga) and other trade bodies to implement the reach process in accordance with the rules
      and bring it to a successful conclusion with the assistance of customers and suppliers. we have also notified
      133 substances in compliance with the european union's clp regulation for classification, labelling and




                                                                                                                      strategy
      packaging of substances and mixtures.

      > more on products that help our customers reduce emissions
      > more on plant and transport safety measures
      > more on raw materials and recycling




                                                                                                                      business & governance
      > more on supply chain management
      > more on safety training




                                                                                                                      environment & safety
                                                                                                                      employees & society
                                                                                                                      measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 33 corporate responsibility report 2012


      energy




                                                                                                                                                      about linde
      strategy
      we rely on innovative technologies and the efficient use of energy in order to conserve resources and reduce
      greenhouse gases while remaining commercially successful. our global energy management system provides
      the basis for this. we conduct internal audits to analyse the energy efficiency of our plants and processes
      across the globe. potential for cost savings is exploited where technically and economically feasible.
      electricity and natural gas jointly account for about 80 percent of the energy carriers linde uses. the




                                                                                                                                                      strategy
      production of air gases in air separation plants accounts for the greatest share of the group's electricity
      consumption (over 85 percent). this is why we particularly focus on improving energy efficiency and
      productivity and have set ourselves a global target in this area.


      energy consumption (in million mwh)




                                                                                                                                                      business & governance
                                                                                        2012             2011             2010             2009
      electricity consumption                                                            20.0             20.3             19.0             17.7
        of w hich by air separation plants                                               17.7             17.9             16.8             16.0
      natural gas consumption                                                            25.9             25.4             25.2             23.6
        of w hich by hyco plants                                                         22.3             21.7             21.2             21.3
      consumption of other energy sources 1                                                8.7            11.7               6.4                5.9
        assured by kpmg sustainability
      1 other energy sources include for example heating oil, biofuel energy, propane and butane. the increased consumption of other energies




                                                                                                                                                      environment & safety
        resulted from inclusion of additional other energy sources (e.g. naphtha and methanol) into indicator scope in 2011.




      energy consumption and efficiency
      compared with last year, energy overall consumed by linde decreased slightly. this was attributable in
      particular to changes in customer demand. we identified around 190 projects during the reporting year to
      reduce our energy needs. these projects resulted in savings of approximately eur 28 million and around
      180,000 tonnes of co 2 emissions.




                                                                                                                                                      employees & society
                                                    energy efficiency measures led to savings of around usd

      180,000
      tonnes of co 2 s aved through energy
                                                    250,000 at one of our us sites, for instance. linde north america
                                                    won an award for this initiative in an energy management
                                                    competition in 2012, giving the prize money of usd 10,000 to a
      efficiency projects                           charitable organisation in the region. in shanghai, linde
                                                    received an award from local authorities for activities to cut
      electricity consumption during the year under review. also during 2012, all the production plants operated by
      linde gas germany were certified to iso 50001. this global standard is evidence of a systematic approach to
      energy management with well-defined remits and aims, coupled with ongoing identification of scope for
                                                                                                                                                      measuring sustainability




      efficiency gains.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 34 corporate responsibility report 2012


      renewable energy
      renewable energy accounts for around 20 percent of our electricity mix, largely reflecting the national
      electricity mix usual at our sites. furthermore, linde healthcare has been obtaining renewable energy
      certificate system (recs) certificates since 2009. recs is an initiative that promotes regenerative energy
      sources across europe. in 2012, 40,000 mwh of the energy we consumed was once again recs-certified. in
      some countries, linde pursues additional activities to foster renewable energy. in sweden, for instance, the
      company holds a 9 percent stake in the wind power company vindin. the aim of this long-term initiative is to
      generate 1 million mwh of electricity. in 2012, this project already generated around 47,000 mwh of




                                                                                                                          about linde
      electricity.

      > more on our products and global targets for energy efficiency and climate protection


      responsibility along the value chain




                                                                                                                          strategy
                                                                                                                          business & governance
      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                          environment & safety
                                                                                                                          employees & society
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 35 corporate responsibility report 2012


      climate protection




                                                                                                                                                        about linde
      strategy
      our commitment to climate protection centres on resource-efficient processes and climate-friendly products
      and technologies. it builds on a systematic analysis of the relevance of the group's business activities to
      climate protection. for this purpose, we record and evaluate emissions along the value chains of our products
      worldwide, from research through production to use by the customer. when accounting for greenhouse
      gases, linde takes into consideration the guidance set out in the greenhouse gas protocol.




                                                                                                                                                        strategy
      in 2012, we once again took part in the survey by the carbon disclosure project (cdp) on climate protection
      reporting and performance. linde has been included in the regional carbon disclosure leadership index (cdli)
      for germany, austria and switzerland. the cdp recognised linde's achievement as one of the companies which
      had made the greatest progress compared with the previous year out of all the companies included in this




                                                                                                                                                        business & governance
      index for the first time.


      emissions (in million tonnes co 2 equivalents)

                                                                                         2012             2011             2010             2009
      direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1)
      co2 emissions                                                                        5.3               5.7              5.4              4.6
        of w hich by hyco plants                                                           4.2               4.3              4.3              3.9
      linde transport fleet                                                               0.39             0.42             0.41             0.38




                                                                                                                                                        environment & safety
      other greenhouse gases 1,2                                                           0.4               0.6              0.4              0.4

      indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2)
      co2 emissions                                                                        9.8             10.2               9.5              9.0
        of w hich by air separation plants                                                 8.9               8.9              8.3              8.0

      total scope 1 and 2 emissions                                                       15.9             16.9             15.7             14.4

      other greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3)




                                                                                                                                                        employees & society
      transports by contractors (in thousand t co2e)                                      380               395              310              320
      business travel (in thousand t co2e)                                                32.1             30.6                 –                   –
        assured by kpmg sustainability
      1 includes greenhouse gases specified in the kyoto protocol: methane (ch 4), nitrous oxide (laughing gas, n 2o), perfluorocarbons (pfcs),
        hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) and sulphur hexafluoride (sf6).
      2 we monitor compliance with local regulatory requirements worldwide and report our data for all sites legally obliged to report emissions.
                                                                                                                                                        measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 36 corporate responsibility report 2012


      global targets
      in 2012, linde emitted around 15.9 million tonnes of greenhouse gases (2011: 16.9 million tonnes)
      worldwide. the decrease in direct greenhouse gas emissions relative to 2011 is mainly due to a change in
      customer demand. with regard to climate protection measures in our business processes, we focus in
      particular on the areas responsible for the bulk of our co 2 emissions or where we identify an opportunity to
      make substantial cuts in emissions. these areas include the group's air separation plants and product
      transportation.




                                                                                                                                                about linde
                    new goal                                                                             new goal

                    -5%                                                                                  +2%
                    ins talled des ign energy intens ity at air                                          energy efficiency at ins talled hyco




                                                                                                                                                strategy
                    s eparation plants by 2017 (bas e year                                               plants by 2015 (bas e year 2009)
                    2008)



      air separation plants for the production of nitrogen, oxygen and argon are responsible for the majority of




                                                                                                                                                business & governance
      linde's indirect co 2 emissions. by 2013, our global goal is therefore to improve the installed design energy
      intensity of our air separation plants per air gas produced by 3 percent relative to the reference year 2008.
      so far, we have achieved savings of over 1 million tonnes of co 2. in 2013, we extended this goal to a 5
      percent improvement between 2008 and 2017, which has the potential to save over 2.5 million tonnes of co 2.
      additionally, in 2013, we have set ourselves a new global target for our installed hydrogen (hyco) plants,
      aiming for a 2 percent increase in their actual energy efficiency by 2015 compared with the 2009 level.


      alongside production, we also examine other links in the value chain for their climate protection potential –
      for example transport activities. we implement a wide range of measures to reduce emissions caused by the
      transport of our products. these include optimised routing, improved capacity planning and training courses




                                                                                                                                                environment & safety
      in fuel-efficient and environmentally sound driving practices. during the year under review, our aga
      subsidiary in sweden exceeded its voluntary target of reducing co 2 emissions arising from both bulk and
      cylinder transport of gases by 3 percent in 2012. the focus was on modernising aga’s transport fleet with
      more environmentally sound, efficient vehicles. additionally, since 2011, we include co 2 emissions as a
      criterion in all tenders for transport suppliers and consider this factor in our decision-making.

      climate-friendly products
      we make our greatest contribution to climate protection through our products. across numerous industries,
      the group offers gas applications and technologies that make customer production processes more
      environmentally sound, help renewable energy sources to become economically viable, and significantly




                                                                                                                                                employees & society
      reduce the consumption of natural resources. linde is leading globally in the enhancement of the
      environmentally friendly hydrogen technology, for instance. we also calculated a co 2 balance for gases
      produced at our air separation plans and for some of our other main product groups. the aim is to give our
      customers a more transparent overview of the ecological impact of our processes and technologies.


      > more on research on energy efficiency and the interdisciplinary clean energy group
      > more on technologies for environmental protection and energy security
      > more on the european emissions trading system in our annual report
                                                                                                                                                measuring sustainability




      > more on integrating climate risks in the enterprise risk management system in our annual report

      responsibility along the value chain




      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




◀ ▶ table of contents

 37 corporate responsibility report 2012


      water



      we strive to use water sustainably at our sites. this includes keeping consumption as low as possible,
      particularly in areas where water is scarce, and reducing or preventing emissions to water. we offer our




                                                                                                                         about linde
      customers solutions for improving the quality of drinking water, optimising wastewater treatment and
      recycling water through closed-loop systems. with its solvox®oxystream solution, for example, linde
      introduced a system to the market which enables particularly cost-effective and energy-efficient oxygenation
      at land-based aquaculture sites.


      in 2012, we made further progress in implementing a new strategy for sustainable water management at




                                                                                                                         strategy
      sites located in water-stressed areas. this involved conducting a pilot study in great britain for instance. we
      look at optimisation measures and targets on a region- and production-site-specific basis. at our site in
      karratha, australia, for instance, a closed cooling water system, commissioned in 2012, has been helping to
      reduce water consumption at a new air separation plant by approximately 15,000 cubic metres per year. at
      one of our sites in colombia, we introduced a new water circulation system during the year under review,
      which reuses water multiple times. our subsidiary afrox in africa managed to cut water consumption by




                                                                                                                         business & governance
      around 2.5 percent relative to the prior-year level through water conservation initiatives at various sites.


      water in the linde group (in million cubic metres)




                                                                                                                         environment & safety
                                                                                                                         employees & society




      water use
                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




      in the 2012 financial year, linde used an approximate total of 349 million cubic metres of water (2011: 288
      million cubic metres). only a small proportion of this is used up or contaminated in production. over 85 percent
      of the total water we need is required for cooling. most of this cooling water is simply heated and can be fed
      back into the water cycle without any further treatment, at a temperature that does not pose any risk to the
      surrounding ecosystem. linde’s water consumption in 2012 was around 41 million cubic metres (2011: 43
      million cubic metres). this water is used in manufacturing products, as a source of steam and in office
      buildings. as well as continuous flow systems, we also make use of closed-loop systems in which the water
      can be used several times. this means that only a small amount needs to be replaced, depending on the
      water quality and equipment used in the plants.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 38 corporate responsibility report 2012


      emissions to water1 (in tonnes)

                                                                                            2012              2011           2010              2009
      chemical oxygen demand (cod)                                                            135              165             308              381
      biochemical oxygen demand (bod)                                                          51                38             75              157
      nitrates                                                                                 52                61             35                  37
      phosphates                                                                                 4                 3              3                 3




                                                                                                                                                         about linde
        assured by kpmg sustainability
      1 we monitor compliance with local regulatory requirements worldwide and report our data for all sites legally obliged to report emissions.




      waste water
      we purify the waste water from our production and sanitary facilities either by using our own treatment




                                                                                                                                                         strategy
      systems or by sending it to municipal or industrial plants. in compliance with official regulations, linde
      measures emissions of phosphates, nitrates and organic compounds. in 2012, linde reported around 9.8
      million cubic metres of wastewater worldwide to the authorities (2011: 8.1 million cubic metres).


      > information about our new aquaculture innovation centre




                                                                                                                                                         business & governance
      responsibility along the value chain




      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                                                         environment & safety
                                                                                                                                                         employees & society
                                                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 39 corporate responsibility report 2012


      raw materials and resources



      as one of the world’s leading producers of air gases, linde’s most important raw material is air from the
      earth’s atmosphere. another resource crucial to our operations is energy. we also make use of other raw




                                                                                                                                            about linde
      materials, ancillary materials and consumables. these include metals, required for example in the production
      of components. we also need gas cylinders and tanks, as well as various packaging materials. gas cylinders
      are reused and refilled. a typical linde cylinder will be used three and a half times a year on average and can
      last for decades.


      we work together with our business partners to promote a responsible approach to the consumption of




                                                                                                                                            strategy
      resources. industrial gases from linde can, for instance, be used to reduce emissions and energy
      requirements compared with conventional recycling processes when processing various materials, such as
      aluminium and rubber.


      resources and materials (in tonnes)




                                                                                                                                            business & governance
                                                                                            2012              2011         2010     2009
      raw materials and supplies                                                         68,848            75,020         65,700   50,000
      packaging materials                                                                  4,738             5,286         6,300    5,800
        assured by kpmg sustainability




      renewable raw materials
      linde technologies help promote the use of renewable raw materials. we have made progress in developing




                                                                                                                                            environment & safety
      our process for obtaining hydrogen from liquid biogenic raw materials such as glycerine. this technology is
      now being upscaled to demonstration level in preparation for commercial use. moreover, in 2012, the new
      fraunhofer centre for chemical-biotechnological processes (cbp) opened in leuna. as general contractor,
      linde’s engineering division was responsible for building the process units and supporting infrastructure. the
      aim of the cbp is to upscale innovative biotechnological and chemical processes for commercial production,
      enabling companies to manufacture chemical base products from renewable raw materials.


      > more on the use of energy
      > more on global procurement in our annual report




                                                                                                                                            employees & society
      > more on waste and recycling

      responsibility along the value chain

                                                                                                                                            measuring sustainability




      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




◀ ▶ table of contents

 40 corporate responsibility report 2012


      waste



      we work continuously to reduce and avoid waste. where possible, waste products are recycled. the rest is
      disposed of in an environmentally sound manner in compliance with local regulations. we classify the waste




                                                                                                                        about linde
      generated by our business activities as hazardous or non-hazardous in line with national legislation. linde’s
      main waste products are oil and oleaginous materials, chemicals, waste containing metal, and gas cylinders.
      most gas cylinders are fully recycled at the end of their useful life. closed-loop systems for products help to
      increase material and resource efficiency and to cut the volume of waste produced. lime slurry, for example, a
      by-product of acetylene production, can be used in other industries with no further treatment required.




                                                                                                                        strategy
      waste and recycling

                                                                            2012   2011   2010   2009
      total w aste                                             thousand t   68.5   64.4   71.9   68.3
        non-hazardous w aste                                           %     71     57     61     52




                                                                                                                        business & governance
        hazardous w aste                                               %     29     43     39     48
      recycled materials                                               %     41     26     43     28
      incineration w aste1                                             %     18     30     28     28
      landfill w aste                                                  %     26     31     22     35
      other disposal method                                            %     15     13      7      9
        assured by kpmg sustainability
      1 incineration waste is partly used for heat recovery.



      in 2012, we generated a higher volume of non-hazardous waste, partly attributable to our gist logistics




                                                                                                                        environment & safety
      division – which reported an increase in business activities. at the same time, we managed to reduce our
      volume of hazardous waste, particularly as a result of various waste treatment measures. in africa, for
      instance, initiatives to increase the recycling share had the effect of reducing the volume of waste for
      disposal by around 40 percent compared with the prior-year figure.

      our waste management targets are determined by regional requirements, as the type of waste produced
      differs significantly from one site to another depending on the processes being carried out. in the uk, for
      instance, linde has set a regional target of increasing its waste recycling rate to 65 percent by 2014, having
      already achieved 55 percent during the year under review. since 2008, waste management efforts there have




                                                                                                                        employees & society
      saved around eur 240,000.

      during 2012, we analysed volumes of waste generated and total waste-related costs at several hundred
      sites. as a follow-up initiative, we launched a pilot project in southeast asia at the beginning of 2013 to
      evaluate improvement potential in waste management and identify best-practice sites.                              measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 41 corporate responsibility report 2012


                                                     our commitment to responsible waste management extends to

      10,000
      liters of helium recovered from medical
                                                     joint efforts with our business partners. in 2012, for instance,
                                                     we joined forces with a customer in germany on a project
                                                     intended to recover the valuable rare gas helium from disused
      equipment                                      mri scanners prior to metal recycling, around 10,000 litres last
                                                     year. helium is used to cool down the magnets in the scanners.
      our aga subsidiary in estonia has developed a process targeted at landfill sites for oil shale waste
      and protecting groundwater. this method is now being used within a project co-funded by the eu. the aim is




                                                                                                                          about linde
      to close as many of these sites in estonia as possible by 2013 and develop these areas for public use over
      the coming years.


      responsibility along the value chain




                                                                                                                          strategy
      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                          business & governance
                                                                                                                          environment & safety
                                                                                                                          employees & society
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 42 corporate responsibility report 2012


      air emissions



      alongside greenhouse gas emissions, linde also monitors emissions of air pollutants. normally, the group’s
      air separation plants hardly produce any direct emissions to air. in other production processes, however,




                                                                                                                                                         about linde
      inorganic gases such as carbon monoxide (co), sulphur oxides (so x), nitrogen oxides (no x), ammonia (nh3)
      and volatile organic compounds (vocs) are released as emissions into the air. voc emissions are mainly
      released during the coating and cleaning of metals such as gas cylinders, storage tanks and plant
      components.


      emissions to air1 (in tonnes)




                                                                                                                                                         strategy
                                                                                             2012              2011          2010              2009
      vocs (volatile organic compounds)                                                         96              206            182              236
      nh3 (ammonia)                                                                             11                28             70                 78
      co (carbon monoxide)                                                                 1,745             1,566          1,747            2,161




                                                                                                                                                         business & governance
      nox (nitrogen oxides)                                                                   796            1,070             717              856
      sox (sulphur oxides)                                                                    391               543            620              730
        assured by kpmg sustainability
      1 we monitor compliance with local regulatory requirements worldwide and report our data for all sites legally obliged to report emissions.



      together with our customers, we are developing solutions for reducing emissions of polluntants into the air.
      the use of pure oxygen, for example, offers environmental gains in foundries, heat treatment processes, in
      the steel industry, during the production of non-ferrous metals, waste treatment and recycling processes.
      using oxygen instead of air improves energy efficiency while also reducing co 2 and nitrogen oxide emissions.




                                                                                                                                                         environment & safety
      in 2012, we developed the corox®lownox process to make glass manufacturing more environmentally
      friendly. this involves feeding additional oxygen into the furnace, which improves the quality of the burner
      flame and lowers the required temperature level, thus cutting emissions of nitrogen oxides.

      responsibility along the value chain




                                                                                                                                                         employees & society
      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e



                                                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 43 corporate responsibility report 2012


      biodiversity



      our environmental management programme also includes examining the potential impact of our activities on
      biodiversity. when planning new sites, we use standard procedures to assess the potential effects on the




                                                                                                                          about linde
      environment. we are guided here by international recommendations such as the un voluntary guidelines on
      biodiversity-inclusive impact assessment. most of our sites are in industrial or commercial zones. however, if
      protected areas or other sensitive habitats are located in the immediate vicinity of our sites, we take steps to
      ensure that they are not negatively impacted, for example by introducing noise protection measures. we also
      actively include environmental considerations in our plant planning processes. during 2012, our site in
      immingham, uk, held a competition inviting pupils to submit ideas for incorporating flora and fauna into the




                                                                                                                          strategy
      site of a new acetylene facility. the winning suggestion is due to be implemented in 2013.


      responsibility along the value chain




                                                                                                                          business & governance
      hig h lig h ted : a r ea s in th e va lu e c h a in c o n n ec ted to th e to p ic s c o ver ed o n th is p a g e




                                                                                                                          environment & safety
                                                                                                                          employees & society
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 44 corporate responsibility report 2012


      employees worldwide




         86%                                                            14,000                                                         60




                                                                                                                                                                       about linde
         participation in global                                        courses completed at linde                                     different nations
         employee survey                                                university                                                     represented at linde in
                                                                                                                                       germany alone




                                                                                                                                                                       strategy
         75%                                                            33%                                                            29%
         of employees completed                                         fewer work-related accidents                                   female participants in talent
         further training                                               since 2009                                                     development programme for
                                                                                                                                       middle managers




                                                                                                                                                                       business & governance
      with around 62,000 employees, the linde group operates successfully around the globe. the aim of
      our human resources management is to acquire the employees best suited to the group, to nurture them and
      to build up long-term loyalty. to do this, it is linde’s goal to offer its staff safe and attractive working
      conditions, fair and respectful treatment, and reward for excellent performance. in return, linde expects its
      employees to assume responsibility, both for the success of the company and for the implementation of
      linde’s corporate values. one of the cornerstones of our global hpo programme designed to improve
      efficiency is "people excellence". as part of this initiative, linde has pinpointed three priorities that are




                                                                                                                                                                       environment & safety
      particularly important to sustainable hr efforts: developing talent, a performance-oriented approach and
      corporate culture.


      employees worldwide

                                                                                          2012              2011              2010             2009
      group (as of dec. 31, 2012)                                                      61,965            50,417            48,430           47,731
      gases division                                                                   50,605            39,031            37,603           37,362
        emea                                                                           21,614            20,920            20,575           20,952




                                                                                                                                                                       employees & society
        asia/pacific                                                                   11,037            10,868            10,051             9,440
        americas                                                                       17,954              7,243            6,977             6,970
      engineering division                                                               6,564             6,319            5,811             5,716
      other activities                                                                   4,796             5,067            5,016             4,653
      employees in production                                                          19,352            19,072            18,134           17,834
      employees in sales, marketing and distribution                                   31,102            22,172            21,940           20,866
      employees in research and development                                                 385              342               324               345
      employees in administration                                                      11,126              8,831            8,032             8,685
                                                                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




      part-time employees                                                                    1.9              2.0               1.9               1.8
      temporary staff 1                                                                      7.5              6.4               4.3               1.8
      employees on parental leave (germany)                                                 328              271                   –                –
      staff covered by collective w age agreements                                         53.8              53.5             54.9              55.3
      1 in 2010, the definition was adapted. previously, all contracts concluded for 24 months or longer were reported as unlimited-term contracts. from
        2010 on, this indicator includes all contracts with a specific termination date.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 45 corporate responsibility report 2012


      as at 31 december 2012, the linde group employed a total of 61,965 members of staff, an increase of 11,548
      compared with the previous year-end. the acquisitions carried out during the financial year resulted in the
      addition of 11,499 new employees. on average, 6.9 percent of employees worldwide left the company during
      the year under review at their own request. depending on the region, this turnover rate ranged from 2.7
      percent in the rbu continental & northern europe to 13.3 percent in the rbu south & east asia. to cope with
      order peaks, linde also uses staffing services if necessary. around 50 temporary workers performed services
      for linde gas germany in 2012.




                                                                                                                    about linde
                                                                                                                    strategy
                                                                                                                    business & governance
                                                                                                                    environment & safety
                                                                                                                    employees & society
                                                                                                                    measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 46 corporate responsibility report 2012


      winning and developing talent



      in the global competition for the best talent, the recruitment of well-trained experts, especially highly
      qualified engineers, plays a particularly important role at linde. we cooperate with universities and research




                                                                                                                         about linde
      institutions across the world, seeking to attract newly qualified graduates. during the year under review, the
      group launched an initiative at eleven chinese universities to recruit graduates for its operating business,
      sales, and research and development. more than 2,000 students attended the presentations put on by linde.
      in europe, linde has been conducting its second two-year european graduate programme since 2011. this
      offer is aimed at international graduates with outstanding grades.




                                                                                                                         strategy
      worldwide, linde provides training opportunities in various technical and commercial areas. in germany, for
      example, we offer training in 17 different careers. in 2012, depending on the division concerned, between
      90.4 and 100 percent of apprentices and trainees in germany who completed their training were offered at
      least a fixed-term contract. the number of apprentices and trainees as a proportion of the total number of
      employees in the linde group was 1.1 percent in 2012, 57 percent of which were based in non-german
      companies.




                                                                                                                         business & governance
      employee vocational and further training

                                                          2012       2011       2010        2009
      employees w ho have taken up
      training opportunities                      %        75.6       64.4       59.1       53.8
      training days per employee                            2.0        2.3        2.0        1.6
      expenditure on training programmes
      per employee                                 €       292        268        241        216




                                                                                                                         environment & safety
      apprentices and trainees in total
      w orkforce                                  %         1.1        1.3        1.3        1.4
      apprentices and trainees in germany         %         3.1        3.6        3.5        3.7


      as well as recruiting the right talent, development programmes are an important element of our hr strategy.
      the group offers a range of initiatives designed to continuously develop its employees and to support them
      in their learning and change processes. these training and development measures are subsumed in the
      linde university. as part of its related global talent circle development programme for middle managers, linde
      set up a cooperation project with the china europe international business school, for example. over 14,000




                                                                                                                         employees & society
      courses have been delivered through linde university since these training programmes were established. in
      asia, an e-learning portal was established in 2012, offering around 300 courses. this portal covers all
      business functions, offering employees flexible development opportunities over the internet.

                                                     workshops on change management are held to give employees

      3,400
      employees completed change
                                                     the chance to discuss the issues at stake. since these
                                                     workshops were introduced in 2010, around 3,400 members of
                                                     staff have attended them. mentoring schemes are used to make
      management training                            it easier for new employees, in particular, to integrate into the
                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




                                                     group. in north america, for example, linde runs a mentoring
      programme with more than 200 participants. succession planning for the group’s management team is also a
      key component of our long-term approach to hr development. in 2012, linde held a planning workshop for
      around 100 strategic positions. the aim is to recognise and nurture potential, and to ensure knowledge
      transfer. in acknowledgement of its hr initiatives, linde achieved a leading position in the ranking of "india’s
      best companies to work for" in the year under review.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 47 corporate responsibility report 2012


      remuneration and social benefits



      personnel expenses during the reporting year totalled eur 3.096 billion (2011: eur 2.653 billion).
      remuneration packages comprising various different elements are designed to encourage employees to




                                                                                                                       about linde
      focus on linde's long-term strategic aims. these include a target- and performance-based remuneration
      structure at managerial level and the global performance management system, designed to ensure a fair and
      comparable appraisal for the staff. variable remuneration components are based on the extent to which the
      group meets its targets and on employees’ individual performance levels. to support this system, we
      introduced an it module in 2012 that enables performance evaluations – which are binding for all managers
      worldwide – to be carried out uniformly across the group. by means of the linde long-term incentive plan,




                                                                                                                       strategy
      managers may also acquire linde share options and thus participate directly in the company’s growth in
      value.

      gender is not a factor in determining pay at linde. our employees are paid on the basis of their role,
      qualifications and performance. our global performance management system includes assessments of all
      management positions. these evaluations focus on transparency, equality and fair-market-value




                                                                                                                       business & governance
      remuneration. we benchmark remuneration levels internally and externally to check if they are appropriate
      and in line with established market practice. remuneration payable to the executive board and supervisory
      board is disclosed in the linde group's annual report in compliance with the recommendations of the german
      corporate governance code.


      in addition to financial remuneration and participation, linde offers its employees various social benefits.
      these are organised at local level and vary from site to site. they include occupational pension plans,
      childcare subsidies, medical screening and support for preventative programmes such as seminars on
      avoiding burn-out or preventing addiction.




                                                                                                                       environment & safety
                                                    we offer employees in 46 countries company and employee-

      77%
                                                    financed pension schemes and healthcare benefits. almost 80
                                                    percent of the group-wide workforce is covered by company
      of the workforce covered under                benefit schemes. in the 2012 financial year, we spent a total of
      company benefit s chemes                      eur 241 million (2011: eur 190 million) on pensions. through
                                                    defined benefit plans, 29,069 active employees are being paid
      an occupational pension, 19,380 former employees have acquired a vested claim to a company pension and
      31,118 pensioners are drawing an occupational pension within the group. the main pension plans –
      accounting for around 92 percent of the group’s global obligations – are held in the united kingdom,




                                                                                                                       employees & society
      germany, the united states, australia, the netherlands, south africa and switzerland.

      linde also provides support tailored to its employees' requirements in the form of subsidised health
      insurance. in china, we extend our linde-financed supplementary health insurance to employees' family
      members at subsidised rates. since 2012, linde has also been funding supplementary health insurance in
      china for employees of contractors, applying the same conditions as it offers its own employees.

      > more on managerial remuneration in our annual report
                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




      > more on executive and supervisory board remuneration in our annual report
      > more on pension plans in our annual report




◀ ▶ table of contents

 48 corporate responsibility report 2012


      work-life balance



      linde helps its employees to reconcile their personal and professional goals. staff have the option of a
      number of different flexible working models, ranging from flexitime or part-time hours to teleworking, and can




                                                                                                                        about linde
      also obtain assistance in finding childcare or care solutions for other family members. the various initiatives
      are based on specific local requirements. the flexible futures programme in the uk, for example, gives
      employees the opportunity to take up to twelve months off if they wish to complete a training course or
      pursue a private project. part-time employees in the group accounted for 1.9 percent of the workforce in the
      reporting year. in germany, more than 300 employees took parental leave in 2012, of which around 37
      percent were men. over 190 employees returned to linde from previous parental leave.




                                                                                                                        strategy
      linde supports its employees with organising childcare in several regions, including north america and
      germany. in 2012, the group increased its budget for a share of daycare places in greater munich. this means
      that the number of daycare places there can be increased from 20 to 45. in other german locations, more than
      100 employees received a subsidy towards their childcare places.




                                                                                                                        business & governance
      our employees work in countries with varying requirements governing hours of work per week. these
      standards are based on national regulations and collective wage agreements. as a rule, contracts for full-
      time employees stipulate a maximum working week of 48 hours worldwide.




                                                                                                                        environment & safety
                                                                                                                        employees & society
                                                                                                                        measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 49 corporate responsibility report 2012


      labour and social standards



      in our globally binding code of ethics, we commit to the principles of the human rights charter of the united
      nations, the core labour standards of the international labour organization (ilo) and the principles of the un




                                                                                                                       about linde
      global compact. compliance with social standards is reviewed as part of a multi-layered process, a key
      component of which is a worldwide survey of systems for fair working conditions. another tool is our integrity
      line, which employees and external stakeholders can use to report instances of misconduct. furthermore,
      labour standards are the subject of consultations with employee representatives. the group's core
      guidelines also take international standards into account, for instance in requirements for suppliers.




                                                                                                                       strategy
      once again in 2012, we collated information uniformly across all group locations about our processes for
      adhering to social standards and observing human rights. the survey covers all regions in which linde
      operates. the aim is to examine whether our companies have put processes in place to safeguard social
      standards. this entails preventing child and forced labour and discrimination, as well as upholding the right
      to exercise freedom of association and negotiate collective bargaining agreements. a very small percentage
      of group employees work in countries where the right to exercise freedom of association and negotiate




                                                                                                                       business & governance
      collective bargaining agreements is limited by national legislation. the results of the survey show, for
      instance, that linde has introduced processes to verify the age of its employees. the various regions also
      reported that almost all of their workforce is covered under state benefit schemes or has access to a
      healthcare scheme through linde.




                                                                                                                       environment & safety
                                                                                                                       employees & society
                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 50 corporate responsibility report 2012


      involving employees



      linde works together with employee representatives and trade unions. in 2012, 53.8 percent of our staff
      members were employed under collective wage agreements (2011: 53.5 percent). linde’s system of employee




                                                                                                                       about linde
      representation in germany is two-tiered, consisting of works councils in the decentralised units and a central
      works council for the group as a whole. in addition, for some years now, linde has also maintained a
      european works council, currently with 24 members. in 2012, the european works council joined a project
      aimed at improving cross-border cooperation and supported by the european union.


      honest feedback from employees is crucial to our hr approach. in 2012, the group conducted a global




                                                                                                                       strategy
      employee survey for the second time. 86 percent of the workforce took part in this voluntary questionnaire.
      compared with the last survey in 2010, there was an improvement in results across the board. 82 percent of
      employees stated that they were proud to work for linde. the group’s commitment to environmental
      protection and its openness in addressing safety issues were cited as particularly positive characteristics by
      the staff. meanwhile, aspects such as communication between managers and their teams and cooperation
      across different departments were mentioned as areas for improvement. in the wake of the survey, managers




                                                                                                                       business & governance
      have been analysing the results with their staff and developing measures to improve the relevant areas. we
      currently aim to conduct a follow-up survey by the end of 2014.

                                                    additionally, our employees can play an active role by

      1,400
      ideas s ubmitted by employees to
                                                    suggesting ways to improve products and processes. in india,
                                                    for example, linde engineering received over 30 staff
                                                    suggestions within four months in 2012 through a new regional
      gras s roots innovation development           ideas programme, 23 of which the company went on to
      programme in as ia                            implement. these include plans to establish an advisory service




                                                                                                                       environment & safety
                                                    for customers, helping them to obtain optimum performance
      from their plants. also acting on an employee suggestion, linde engineering began an initiative in 2012 to
      enable staff in india to donate their own vacation days for colleagues who would otherwise have to take
      unpaid leave in urgent situations. in indonesia, staff submitted over 1,400 ideas to the grass roots
      innovation development programme, launched at the start of 2012. there are plans to implement more than
      230 of these suggestions.




                                                                                                                       employees & society
                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 51 corporate responsibility report 2012


      diversity and equal opportunities

      linde has identified diversity as one of the essential ingredients in the group’s success. our aim is to
      assemble the best possible teams across the world. these should understand customers’ needs on the
      ground, have an overview of the local market, and know and respect the specific cultural identity. as of 31
      december 2012, the group employed staff from around 130 different countries. more than 60 nations are




                                                                                                                          about linde
      represented in the german companies alone. the proportion of senior managers in the linde group from
      countries other than germany exceeded 65 percent in 2012, with more than 40 nations represented at this
      level. at linde sites in the emerging markets of china, india and southeast asia, over 70 percent of the senior
      management are from that particular region. in 2012, more than 250 linde employees were sent on
      secondment to subsidiaries abroad.




                                                                                                                          strategy
      one of linde’s main priorities in the area of diversity and equal opportunities is the promotion of female
      managers. the proportion of women in the major talent development programme for middle managers, the
      global talent circle, was raised during the reporting year, from 26.8 percent to 29 percent. linde has set itself
      the target of raising the proportion of women in senior management positions to between 13 and 15 percent
      by 2018.




                                                                                                                          business & governance
                                                   measures taken to achieve this goal include several
        global goal                                workgroups focused on different aspects and action
                                                   items related to diversity. linde also ensures female applicants

        13 – 15%
        of women in s enior management
                                                   are given due consideration at the recruitment stage. the
                                                   proportion of female participants in the second round of the
                                                   european graduate programme exceeded 50 percent in 2012.
        pos itions by 2018                         equally, almost half of the participants in the company's talent
                                                   programmes for trainees in southeast asia were women during
      the year under review. the group's global aims are flanked by regional initiatives in the area of diversity and
      equal opportunities. in sweden, for example, linde defined the content and targets of an initiative promoting




                                                                                                                          environment & safety
      equality among male and female employees in 2012.


      diversity

                                                           2012       2011       2010        2009
      staff up to 30 years old                     %        17.0       16.0       16.4       17.0
      staff betw een 30 and 50 years old           %        58.8       59.0       59.6       60.1
      staff over 50 years old                      %        24.2       25.0       24.0       22.9




                                                                                                                          employees & society
      nationalities of employees in germany                  63         63         58           –
      nationalities among senior managers
      in germany                                             12         13         14           –
      female employees in total w orkforce         %        20.1       19.5       19.3       19.9
       of w hich in senior management
       positions                                   %        11.3       11.0       10.3        9.3
       of w hich in development
       programmes for middle managers              %        29.0       26.8          –          –
      women in the executive board                 %          0           0          0          0
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




      women in the supervisory board               %         8.3        8.3          0          0
      severely disabled employees
      (germany)                                    %         3.1        3.6        3.5        3.3


      our commitment to equal opportunities also includes doing our best to integrate employees with severe
      disabilities or health issues. at linde germany, this included negotiating a works agreement governing the
      reintegration of employees into working life after an extended period of disability. in 2012, around 240
      people with severe disabilities were employed by linde in germany, comprising 3.1 percent of the workforce
      (2011: 3.6 percent).




◀ ▶ table of contents

 52 corporate responsibility report 2012


      the family and career working group has been looking at demographic issues at linde since 2008. the
      proportion of group employees aged 50-plus now accounts almost for a quarter of the entire workforce. as a
      result, we are also developing measures tailored to the requirements of older staff members. knowledge
      transfer is also a consideration in this context. the engineering division has established the rock (retention
      of critical knowledge) programme, for instance, to ensure that the knowledge of older employees is not lost
      when they retire.

      during the year under review, an engineering and it careers magazine in north america awarded linde the




                                                                                                                       about linde
      title of "best diversity company".




                                                                                                                       strategy
                                                                                                                       business & governance
                                                                                                                       environment & safety
                                                                                                                       employees & society
                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 53 corporate responsibility report 2012


      occupational health and safety



      linde implements a variety of measures to protect its employees from potential risks associated with their
      work for the company. we use our global management system for safety, health, environmental protection




                                                                                                                        about linde
      and quality (sheq) to identify potential hazard sources in the workplace and to set risk control standards and
      guidelines. defined key performance indicators are used to assess performance levels in the area of
      occupational safety and health protection, and performance in these areas is also audited. in 2012, these
      audits were conducted at 62.4 percent of linde’s operating sites (2011: 54.5 percent). in our occupational
      health and safety measures, we also involve the employees of companies that are working at linde sites,
      with our customers or in the area of transport (contractors).




                                                                                                                        strategy
      occupational health and safety

                                                           2012       2011       2010       2009
                                             per million
      workplace accidents w ith at least         hours




                                                                                                                        business & governance
      one day of absence (employees)           w orked       1.3       1.4        1.9         2.0
                                             per million
      workplace accidents w ith at least         hours
      one day of absence (contractors)         w orked       1.3       1.6        2.2         1.7
      workplace accidents of employees
      w ith at least one day of absence                     136        144        198        202
      workplace accidents of contractors
      w ith at least one day of absence                     151        131        170        128
      working days lost due to industrial
      accidents (employees)                                3,354     2,721      3,813      3,768




                                                                                                                        environment & safety
                                             per million
      working days lost due to industrial        hours
      accidents (employees)                    w orked      31.6      26.1       36.9       37.3
      fatal w orkplace accidents involving
      employees                                               3          5          2          3
      fatal w orkplace accidents involving
      contractors                                             4          3          4          7
      sick days per employee                                 5.3       5.0        5.3         5.5
       assured by kpmg sustainability




                                                                                                                        employees & society
      in 2012, the number of work-related accidents at linde resulting in a lost working day was cut further to 1.3
      (2011: 1.4) per million hours worked. during the same period, the number of work-related accidents among
      contractors also fell to 1.3 (2011: 1.6) per million hours worked. despite this positive trend, it is with the
      deepest regret that the group must report that three linde employees and four workers employed by
      contractors lost their lives whilst working for the group during the reporting year. six of these fatalities
      occurred in relation to transport activities and one employee lost her life in a car accident.


      over the coming years, we are looking to expand our occupational health management programme and to
                                                                                                                        measuring sustainability




      work towards global harmonisation in this area. the health risks associated with manual and repetitive work
      are a particular focus in this regard. the proportion of industrial incidents and chronic illnesses that can be
      attributed to manual activities lies between approximately 30 and 50 percent per year. between 2010 and
      end of 2012, we approved eight global standards and guidelines on workplace health.


      our regional business units support the linde group's global initiatives and targets with measures tailored to
      requirements in specific regions. in denmark, linde launched a nationwide health protection project in the
      year under review, aiming to improve working conditions and thus have a positive impact on the physical and
      psychological health of employees. 99 percent of staff participated in various workshops under this initiative,
      while 75 percent took advantage of a voluntary check-up. the plan is to review progress every three years.
      with a view to preventing stress-related illness, linde subsidiaries in some countries have introduced training


◀ ▶ table of contents

 54 corporate responsibility report 2012


      sessions on stress management techniques for employees. the group's cryostar subsidiary in france, for
      instance, trained around 130 staff members in stress prevention at the workplace in 2012. in the same year,
      linde gas singapore was commended by the local health authorities for its efforts to promote employee
      health.


      in seeking to improve its occupational health management still further, we are also counting on employee
      participation. in 2012, linde recognised innovative solutions for handling gas cylinders in the rbu continental
      & northern europe with its manual handling award. teams from two german filling plants were the winners,




                                                                                                                        about linde
      chosen from around 70 entries submitted for the award. the winning teams had designed rolling aids to ease
      the strain on workers’ backs when moving small gas cylinders around.


      > more on training and audits




                                                                                                                        strategy
                                                                                                                        business & governance
                                                                                                                        environment & safety
                                                                                                                        employees & society
                                                                                                                        measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 55 corporate responsibility report 2012


      social commitment




                                                                                                                        about linde
      strategy
      linde is involved in a variety of projects in proximity to the group’s sites around the world, providing
      assistance locally in the form of donations, sponsorship and volunteering of linde employees. our strategy
      includes a focus on sustainable initiatives related to our business activities. in particular, linde supports
      projects in the fields of education and science. other priorities include such issues as safety, environmental
      protection and social affairs. cross-regional activities are coordinated by the group’s corporate centre, while




                                                                                                                        strategy
      local initiatives are organised on a decentralised basis by the individual regions. as a company, linde does
      not make donations to political parties or individuals. in the us, employees of linde north america have
      formed a political action committee - an independent, registered committee, under which employees collect
      donations for politicians, political parties and associations.




                                                                                                                        business & governance
      in 2012, the total spent on donations, sponsorship and voluntary memberships worldwide was approximately
      eur 10.4 million. organisations linde supports by way of membership include charitable organisations and
      ngos, such as business against crime in south africa, as well as cultural institutions such as the prussian
      cultural heritage foundation (spk) in berlin. linde maintains more than 400 voluntary memberships all over
      the world.



      projects around the globe
      in the field of education, linde focuses in particular on supporting training for the next generation of




                                                                                                                        environment & safety
      engineers and natural scientists. one example of this commitment is the carl von linde academy at
      technische universität münchen, which is funded by the group. this establishment provides future engineers,
      it experts and natural scientists with knowledge that extends beyond the limits of pure technical knowledge,
      touching on areas such as business ethics. by the end of 2012, more than 11,000 students had made use of
      the academy’s programmes. for several years, linde has been supporting the schloss hansenberg boarding
      school in hesse, germany, a public-private partnership. the aim of this partnership is to foster the talent of
      pupils with especially strong academic and social skills. in 2012, around 190 pupils benefited from this
      support in the form of trainee placements, study trips and cooperative natural science projects with
      universities.




                                                                                                                        employees & society
                                                    linde also sponsors scientific exhibitions, experiments and

      11,000
      s tudents have enrolled in the carl von
                                                    competitions in various countries. in munich, home to the
                                                    corporate centre, linde is one of the founding members of the
                                                    deutsches museum future initiative, the aim of which is to
      linde academy’s cours es                      modernise the largest technology museum in the world. linde is
                                                    supporting this initiative with a donation which will total eur 5
      million by 2018. education also plays an important role in other regions. linde’s south african subsidiary
      afrox, for example, supported some 40 projects – and thus almost 3,800 children – through its community
      involvement programme during the year under review. over the course of 2012, afrox invested around eur
                                                                                                                        measuring sustainability




      540,000 in social projects.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 56 corporate responsibility report 2012




                                                       the importance of safety for linde extends far beyond the

      250,000
      s chool pupils participated in road
                                                       company’s own business processes to include the wider
                                                       community. as one of the founding members of a road safety
                                                       initiative, linde offers young people in australia and new
      s afety initiative s ince it was s tarted        zealand safety training shortly before they sit their driving test.
                                                       more than 250,000 school pupils had taken up this offer by the




                                                                                                                             about linde
      end of 2012. truck drivers at linde's gist logistics division are also supporting road safety – by taking their
      vehicles to schools in their local communities. during the year under review, over 2,300 primary-school pupils
      participated in these events. worldwide, linde reached more than 65,000 children, pupils and students
      through its corporate citizenship initiatives in the course of 2012.

                                                  culture is a particular focus of linde's sponsorship activities.

      65,000                                      the group has been season partner of germany's bavarian




                                                                                                                             strategy
                                                  state opera since 2007, and additionally began supporting live
      children, pupils and s tudents reached      streaming of selected performances in 2012. people who do not
      through corporate citizens hip initiatives  have the opportunity to go to the opera can thus experience
                                                  first-class cultural events free of charge. each performance is
      watched online by up to 230,000 viewers in around 50 countries.




                                                                                                                             business & governance
      the group helps its employees to get involved in volunteering by giving them time off work, offering financial
      assistance or matching their donations. in the uk, employees have the option of donating a specific amount
      to a charitable organisation of their choice via their monthly payslip. linde then matches this contribution.
      through these and other employee activities, the matched giving programme generated over eur 300,000
      there in 2012. after hurricane sandy in the united states, linde’s regional business unit and staff in the
      stricken region together donated in excess of usd 75,000 in 2012. across north america, linde and its
      employees donated a total of more than usd 550,000 to a variety of charitable organisations during the year
      under review.




                                                                                                                             environment & safety
                                                                                                                             employees & society
                                                                                                                             measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 57 corporate responsibility report 2012


      measuring sustainability



      key performance indicators (kpis) help us track our economic, ecological and social performance. we use them
      to measure our progress and identify scope for improvement. where possible, we present our performance




                                                                                                                         about linde
      indicators in this report over a four-year period. once again, we asked kpmg sustainability to provide limited
      assurance on selected non-financial kpis. this year, we extended the scope of the audit to include additional
      occupational safety indicators. the scope is described in the independent assurance report. additionally,
      indicators covered within the assurance scope are marked as such in the tables provided. we also highlight
      indicators published in the group management report of linde's 2012 annual report.




                                                                                                                         strategy
      our financial figures are published in the group financial statements within our annual report, in line with the
      international financial reporting standards (ifrs). we collect key indicators for health, safety and
      environmental protection, mainly by means of global databases. we continuously evaluate the possibility of
      including additional kpis in our external reporting. in 2012, we also integrated further non-financial kpis into
      our annual report. we also select and publish our non-financial data considering internationally recognised
      standards, including:




                                                                                                                         business & governance
         the sustainability reporting guidelines issued by the global reporting initiative (gri),
         the greenhouse gas protocol published by the world resources institute and the world business council
         for sustainable development,
         recommendations from the european industrial gases association (eiga), the responsible care initiative
         and the german chemical industry association (vci).


      at the linde group, we are committed to continuous development and improvement. that is why we set




                                                                                                                         environment & safety
      ourselves regional and global targets, against which we can measure our performance. the table with our
      targets provides a quick overview of the individual topics and contains links to more detailed information
      within the relevant chapters.

      our corporate responsibility report 2012 also serves as our communication on progress within the
      framework of the un global compact. we therefore report on how we incorporate the ten global compact
      principles into our business activities.




                                                                                                                         employees & society
                                                                                                                         measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 58 corporate responsibility report 2012


      financials and compliance



      financial indicators




                                                                                                                                   about linde
                                                                                             2012      2011      2010      2009
      share
      closing price                                                                   €     132.00    114.95    113.55     84.16
      year high                                                                       €     136.15    125.80    115.30     87.95
      year low                                                                        €     114.20     96.16     76.70     49.66




                                                                                                                                   strategy
      market capitalisation (at year-end closing price)                        € million    24,445    19,663    19,337    14,215
      earnings per share - undiluted1                                                 €       7.03      6.88      5.94      3.51
      no. of shares (at 31 december)                                              000s     185,189   171,061   170,297   168,907
      cash dividend per share                                                         €       2.70      2.50      2.20      1.80




                                                                                                                                   business & governance
      group
      revenue                                                                  € million    15,280    13,787    12,868    11,211
        in germany                                                                   %         8.5       9.0       9.5      10.8
        outside germany                                                              %        91.5      91.0      90.5      89.2
      operating profit2                                                        € million     3,530     3,210     2,925     2,385
      operating margin                                                               %        23.1      23.3      22.7      21.3
      ebit                                                                     € million     1,992     1,910     1,679     1,167
      profit for the year                                                      € million     1,324     1,244     1,064      653




                                                                                                                                   environment & safety
      capital expenditure                                                      € million     1,952     1,367     1,302     1,137
      equity ratio                                                                   %        40.8      42.0      42.3      37.7
      return on capital employed (roce)                                              %        10.0      11.0      10.3       7.7


      expenditure for research and development                                 € million      101        98        94        89
      procurement costs                                                           bn €        10.9      10.7       9.7       8.2
      personnel expenses                                                          bn €       3.096     2.653     2.527     2.319
      personnel expenses per employee                                          1.000 €        50.0      52.6      52.2      48.6




                                                                                                                                   employees & society
      pension costs                                                            € million      241       190       178       186

      gases division
      revenue                                                                  € million    12,591    11,061    10,228     8,932
      operating profit                                                         € million     3,403     3,041     2,766     2,378
      operating margin                                                               %        27.0      27.5      27.0      26.6

      engineering division
                                                                                                                                   measuring sustainability




      revenue                                                                  € million     2,561     2,531     2,461     2,311
      operating profit                                                         € million      312       304       271       210
      operating margin                                                               %        12.2      12.0      11.0       9.1
      1 based on the weighted average number of shares.
      2 ebitda including share of income from associates and joint ventures.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 59 corporate responsibility report 2012


      compliance

                                                               2012   2011   2010   2009
      contacts integrity line                                  309    430    334      –
      investigations as a result of reports to the
      integrity line                                            77     54     54      –
       of w hich referring to personnel topics             %   42.9   38.9   42.6
       of w hich referring to potential offences against




                                                                                           about linde
       property                                            %   24.7   31.5   22.2     –
       of w hich referring to potential discrimination     %    2.6    0.0    1.9     –
       of w hich referring to potential conflicts of
       interest                                            %   15.6    3.7   14.8     –
      substantiated cases                                       36     25     29      –




                                                                                           strategy
                                                                                           business & governance
                                                                                           environment & safety
                                                                                           employees & society
                                                                                           measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 60 corporate responsibility report 2012


      safety and environmental protection



      use of resources




                                                                                                                                                                                                  about linde
      energy                                                                                                         2012                  2011                   2010                   2009
      electricity consumption                                                        million mwh                     20.0                   20.3                   19.0                   17.7
        of w hich by air separation plants                                           million mwh                     17.7                   17.9                   16.8                   16.0
      natural gas consumption                                                        million mwh                     25.9                   25.4                   25.2                   23.6
        of w hich by hyco plants                                                     million mwh                     22.3                   21.7                   21.2                   21.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                  strategy
      consumption of other energy sources 1                                          million mwh                       8.7                  11.7                    6.4                     5.9

      water
      water use2                                                                         million m3                   349                    288                   255                     242
        of w hich surface and ground w ater                                                       %                  97.4                   96.8                   95.7                   96.7




                                                                                                                                                                                                  business & governance
        of w hich drinking w ater                                                                 %                    2.6                    3.2                   4.3                     3.3
      total w ater consumption3                                                          million m3                  41.2                   42.6                   43.0                   38.9
        of w hich industrial and process w ater                                          million m3                  32.1                   33.3                   32.0                   30.9
        of w hich drinking w ater                                                        million m3                    9.1                    9.3                  11.0                     8.0
      waste w ater                                                                       million m3                    9.8                    8.1                   8.4                   11.4

      resources and materials
      raw materials and supplies                                                                     t            68,848                75,020                 65,700                 50,000
      packaging materials                                                                            t              4,738                 5,286                  6,300                  5,800




                                                                                                                                                                                                  environment & safety
      1 other energy sources include for example heating oil, biofuel energy, propane and butane. the increased consumption of other energies in 2011 resulted from the inclusion of additional
        other energy sources (e.g. naphtha and methanol) into the indicator scope.
      2 water use in 2012 increased due to newly installed air separation plants in china, which mainly use sea water in their processes.
      3 water consumption relates to drinking water and industrial water used. once-through water is drawn from a natural or other sources, solely warmed and ultimately piped back to the
        original source at a temperature not posing any risk to the surrounding ecosystem.




                                                                                                                                                                                                  employees & society
                                                                                                                                                                                                  measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 61 corporate responsibility report 2012


      emissions

      direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1)                                                                  2012                  2011                  2010                  2009
      co2 emissions                                                                     million t                  5.3                   5.7                   5.4                      4.6
        of w hich by hyco plants                                                        million t                  4.2                   4.3                   4.3                      3.9
      linde transport fleet                                                     million t co2e                    0.39                  0.42                  0.41                  0.38
      other greenhouse gases 4,5                                                million t co2e                     0.4                   0.6                   0.4                      0.4




                                                                                                                                                                                              about linde
      total                                                                             million t                  6.1                   6.7                   6.2                      5.4

      indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2)
      co2 emissions                                                                     million t                  9.8                  10.2                   9.5                      9.0
        of w hich by air separation plants                                              million t                  8.9                   8.9                   8.3                      8.0




                                                                                                                                                                                              strategy
      total scope 1 and 2 emissions                                             million t co2e                    15.9                  16.9                  15.7                  14.4
                                                                                              t
      emissions per million eur sales                                                      co2e                 1,095                 1,226                 1,220                 1,284

      other greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3)




                                                                                                                                                                                              business & governance
                                                                                   thousand t
      transports by contractors                                                         co2e                       380                  395                   310                       320
                                                                                   thousand t
      business travel                                                                   co2e                      32.1                  30.6                      –                      –

      emissions to air 5
      vocs (volatile organic compounds)                                                          t                  96                  206                   182                       236
      nh3 (ammonia)                                                                              t                  11                    28                    70                      78
      co (carbon monoxide)                                                                       t              1,745                 1,566                 1,747                 2,161




                                                                                                                                                                                              environment & safety
      nox (nitrogen oxides)                                                                      t                 796                1,070                   717                       856
      sox (sulphur oxides)                                                                       t                 391                  543                   620                       730

      emissions to w ater 5
      chemical oxygen demand (cod)                                                               t                 135                  165                   308                       381
      biochemical oxygen demand (bod)                                                            t                  51                    38                    75                      157
      nitrates                                                                                   t                  52                    61                    35                      37
      phosphates                                                                                 t                    4                     3                     3                      3
      4 includes greenhouse gases specified in the kyoto protocol: methane (ch 4), nitrous oxide (laughing gas, n 2o), perfluorocarbons (pfcs), hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) and sulphur




                                                                                                                                                                                              employees & society
        hexafluoride (sf6).
      5 we monitor compliance with local regulatory requirements worldwide and report our data for all sites legally obliged to report emissions.




                                                                                                                                                                                              measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 62 corporate responsibility report 2012


      waste and recycling

                                                                                                                         2012                    2011                    2010                    2009
      total w aste                                                                       thousand t                       68.5                    64.4                   71.9                    68.3
        non-hazardous w aste                                                                          %                      71                     57                      61                      52
        hazardous w aste                                                                              %                      29                     43                      39                      48
      recycled w aste                                                                                 %                      41                     26                      43                      28




                                                                                                                                                                                                            about linde
      incineration w aste6                                                                            %                      18                     30                      28                      28
      landfill w aste                                                                                 %                      26                     31                      22                      35
      other disposal method                                                                           %                      15                     13                        7                         9
      6 incineration waste is partly used for heat recovery.




                                                                                                                                                                                                            strategy
      transport

                                                                                                                         2012                    2011                    2010                    2009
      distance driven by linde gas transport fleet                                          million km                     845                    866                     764                     689
      serious transport incidents involving trucks 7                               per 1 million km                     0.075                   0.077                  0.085                   0.083




                                                                                                                                                                                                            business & governance
      7 severe traffic incidents, e.g. with heavy effects on the health of the employees involved or with reportable emissions to the environment, as well as transport incidents leading to material
        costs above a defined threshold.



      audits and trainings

                                                                                                                         2012                    2011                    2010                    2009
      sites w here occupational health and safety
      audits have been conducted8                                                                     %                   62.4                    54.5                   53.2                    55.1
      sites w here environmental audits have been
      conducted8                                                                                      %                   53.6                    49.1                   47.8                    48.3




                                                                                                                                                                                                            environment & safety
      employees of linde gas w ho have taken up hse
      training opportunities                                                                          %                   49.1                    50.3                   47.2                    48.8
      8 the figures disclosed relate to internal and external audits conducted at production sites worldwide.



      certified sites

                                                                                                                         2012                    2011                    2010                    2009
      sites certified to iso 9001                                                                     %                      80                     76                      72                      71
      sites certified to iso 14001                                                                    %                      31                     33                      28                      27




                                                                                                                                                                                                            employees & society
      sites certified to ohsas 18001 or scc                                                           %                      25                     22                      22                      22
      sites w ith responsible care certification                                                      %                      29                     26                      22                      21


      environmental incidents

                                                                                                                          2012                   2011                    2010                    2009
      environmental complaints                                                                                               14                      28                     19                      18
      reportable environmental incidents                                                                                     29                      33                     31                      24
                                                                                                                                                                                                            measuring sustainability




        in 2012, linde co mpleted the acquisitio n o f lincare ho ldings inc. and air pro ducts’ co ntinental euro pean ho mecare business.
      the perfo rmance data o f the acquisitio ns will o nly be repo rted after they have been co nso lidated fo r a full financial year.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 63 corporate responsibility report 2012


      employees

      employment structure

                                                                                                                       2012                   2011                    2010                      2009
                                                                                            as of




                                                                                                                                                                                                       about linde
      group                                                                        dec. 31, 2012                    61,965                 50,417                 48,430                  47,731
      gases division                                                                                                50,605                 39,031                 37,603                  37,362
        emea                                                                                                        21,614                 20,920                 20,575                  20,952
        asia/pacific                                                                                                11,037                 10,868                 10,051                    9,440
        americas                                                                                                    17,954                   7,243                  6,977                   6,970




                                                                                                                                                                                                       strategy
      engineering division                                                                                            6,564                  6,319                  5,811                   5,716
      other activities                                                                                                4,796                  5,067                  5,016                   4,653
      employees in production                                                                                       19,352                 19,072                 18,134                  17,834
      employees in sales, marketing and distribution                                                                31,102                 22,172                 21,940                  20,866
      employees in research & development                                                                                385                    342                    324                      345




                                                                                                                                                                                                       business & governance
      employees in administration                                                                                   11,126                   8,831                  8,032                   8,685

      part-time employees                                                                           %                     1.9                    2.0                    1.9                      1.8
      temporary staff 1                                                                             %                     7.5                    6.4                    4.3                      1.8
      employees on parental leave (germany)                                                                              328                    271
      staff covered by collective w age agreements                                                  %                   53.8                   53.5                   54.9                      55.3

      employee retention and benefits
      length of service                                                                        years                    10.1                     9.8                    9.7                     10.1




                                                                                                                                                                                                       environment & safety
                                 2
      staff turnover rate                                                                           %                     6.9                    6.3                    5.7                      4.2
      employees w ith access to company
      benefit schemes                                                                               %                      77                     78                     76                      80
      retired colleagues receiving pensions by linde                                                                31,118                 31,112                 32,584                  32,012
      1 in 2010, the definition was adapted. previously, all contracts concluded for 24 months or longer were reported as unlimited-term contracts. from 2010 on, this indicator includes all
        contracts with a specific termination date.
      2 staff turnover rate relates to employees who left the group voluntarily during the period under review.



      diversity




                                                                                                                                                                                                       employees & society
                                                                                                                       2012                   2011                    2010                      2009
      staff up to 30 years old                                                                      %                   17.0                   16.0                   16.4                      17.0
      staff betw een 30 and 50 years old                                                            %                   58.8                   59.0                   59.6                      60.1
      staff over 50 years old                                                                       %                   24.2                   25.0                   24.0                      22.9
      nationalities of employees in germany                                                                                63                     63                     58                       –
      nationalities among senior managers in germany                                                                       12                     13                     14                       –
      female employees in total w orkforce                                                          %                   20.1                   19.5                   19.3                      19.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




        of w hich in senior management positions                                                    %                   11.3                   11.0                   10.3                       9.3
        of w hich in development programmes for
        middle managers                                                                             %                   29.0                   26.8                        –                      –
      women in the executive board                                                                  %                       0                      0                       0                      0
      women in the supervisory board                                                                %                     8.3                    8.3                       0                      0
      severely disabled employees (germany)                                                         %                     3.1                    3.6                    3.5                      3.3




◀ ▶ table of contents

 64 corporate responsibility report 2012


      employee training

                                                                                      2012             2011            2010             2009
      employees w ho attended training opportunities                     %             75.6            64.4            59.1             53.8
      training days per employee                                                        2.0             2.3              2.0             1.6
      expenditure on training programmes per
      employee                                                            €            292              268             241              216
      apprentices and trainees in total w orkforce                       %              1.1             1.3              1.3             1.4




                                                                                                                                                 about linde
      apprentices and trainees in germany                                %              3.2             3.6              3.5             3.7

      occupational health and safety

                                                                                      2012             2011            2010             2009
      workplace accidents w ith at least one day of       per million hours




                                                                                                                                                 strategy
      absence (employees)                                           w orked             1.3             1.4              1.9             2.0
      workplace accidents w ith at least one day of       per million hours
      absence (contractors)                                         w orked             1.3             1.6              2.2             1.7
      workplace accidents of employees w ith at least
      one day of absence                                                               136              144             198              202




                                                                                                                                                 business & governance
      workplace accidents of contractors w ith at
      least one day of absence                                                         151              131             170              128
      working days lost due to industrial accidents
      (employees)                                                                    3,354            2,721           3,813            3,768
      working days lost due to industrial accidents       per million hours
      (employees)                                                   w orked            31.6            26.1            36.9             37.3
      fatal w orkplace accidents involving employees                                      3               5                2               3
      fatal w orkplace accidents involving contractors                                    4               3                4               7
      sick days per employee                                                            5.3             5.0              5.3             5.5




                                                                                                                                                 environment & safety
       in 2012, linde co mpleted the acquisitio n o f lincare ho ldings inc. and air pro ducts' co ntinental euro pean ho mecare business.
      unless required by financial repo rting standards (emplo yees at the balance sheet date), figures o f lincare ho ldings o n
      emplo yees will o nly be repo rted after the co mpany has been fully co nso lidated fo r o ne financial year. figures o n emplo yees o f
      the acquired ho mecare business o f air pro ducts are fully repo rted fo r the 2012 financial year in the sectio ns o n emplo yment
      structure and diversity as well as in the sectio n o n emplo yee training fo r apprentices and trainees.




                                                                                                                                                 employees & society
                                                                                                                                                 measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 65 corporate responsibility report 2012


      goals



      strategy




                                                                                                                     about linde
      goal                                       timeline   progress                                        status

      transparency

      definition, collection and reporting of    ongoing       further indicators included in corporate
      additional sustainability indicators                     responsibility report, for example in the
                                                               area of compliance




                                                                                                                     strategy
                                                               scope of independent assurance
                                                               extended to include new indicators
                                                               further non-financial indicators included
                                                               in 2012 annual report
                                                            > more on compliance
                                                            > more on kpis and targets




                                                                                                                     business & governance
                                                            > more on assurance
                                                            > more in the annual report

      stakeholder engagement

      inclusion of stakeholder requirements in   ongoing       second global voluntary employee survey
      sustainability management activities                     completed
                                                               1,600 sustainability inquiries from
                                                               stakeholders answ ered
                                                               more than 700 individual




                                                                                                                     environment & safety
                                                               conversations w ith financial analysts and
                                                               investors conducted; 41 conferences
                                                               and roadshow s for investors
                                                               expert dialogues conducted, hosting the
                                                               federal algae roundtable meeting
                                                               (bundesalgenstammtisch) for example,
                                                               w hich brought together 150 experts to
                                                               discuss regenerative raw materials
                                                            > more on employee survey
                                                            > more on linde shares




                                                                                                                     employees & society
                                                            > more on stakeholder dialogue
                                                            > more on materiality analysis



                                                                                                                     measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 66 corporate responsibility report 2012


      business & governance

      goal                                                                  timeline                    progress                                        status

      finances

      group operating profit of at least eur 4 bn                           2013                        > more in the annual report
      group operating profit of at least eur 5 bn                           2016                        > more in the annual report
      and adjusted roce of around 14 percent*;




                                                                                                                                                                 about linde
      reported roce of around 13 percent
      further reductions in total gross costs of                            2013-2016                   > more in the annual report
      betw een eur 750 m and eur 900 m

      compliance

      expansion of compliance programme                                     ongoing                           new anti-corruption guidelines for




                                                                                                                                                                 strategy
                                                                                                              employees approved
                                                                                                              new intranet portal for compliance
                                                                                                              launched
                                                                                                              over 36,000 e-learning courses on the
                                                                                                              code of ethics by the end of 2012




                                                                                                                                                                 business & governance
                                                                                                              classroom-based training for over 6,000
                                                                                                              employees betw een 2009 and 2012
                                                                                                              around 3,500 employees trained on anti-
                                                                                                              trust law via a new online training
                                                                                                              course
                                                                                                        > more

      supply chain

      sustainability assessment of the supply                               2014                              analysis of sustainability risks in the
      chain                                                                                                   supply chain conducted




                                                                                                                                                                 environment & safety
                                                                                                              more in-depth analysis planned
                                                                                                        > more
      consolidation and complementation of                                  2014                        company-w ide status quo analysis of
      existing sustainability requirements in a                                                         sustainability requirements applying to
      global supplier code of conduct                                                                   suppliers conducted
                                                                                                        > more
      raising aw areness on the importance of                               2014                        new intranet sites on sustainability in the
      sustainability in the supply chain among                                                          supply chain launched
      procurement managers and suppliers                                                                > more




                                                                                                                                                                 employees & society
      capital market

      inclusion of linde in the most renow ned                              2014                              linde included in the global dow jones
      sustainability indices                                                                                  sustainability index (djsi world)
                                                                                                              linde included in regional carbon
                                                                                                              disclosure leadership index (cdli) for
                                                                                                              germany, austria and sw itzerland
                                                                                                        > more
                                                                                                                                                                 measuring sustainability




      products

      development of products and technologies                              ongoing                           innovations include a new process to
      that unite the goals of customer value and                                                              reduce emissions of harmful nitrogen
      sustainable development                                                                                 oxides during glass manufacture
                                                                                                              research and innovation centre to
                                                                                                              improve oxygen supply in fish farming
                                                                                                              opened
                                                                                                        > more under innovations
      * adjusted for the amortisation of fair value adjustments identified in the course of the boc purchase price allocation




◀ ▶ table of contents

 67 corporate responsibility report 2012


      environment & safety
      planned measures                              timeline    progress                                         status

      site safety

      standardised risk review for sites and        long-term   67% of sites concerned certified in line w ith
      definition of control mechanisms to           goal        mhrp by the end of 2012
      minimise these risks to the greatest                      > more




                                                                                                                          about linde
      possible extent (major hazards review
      programme, mhrp)

      transport safety

      transport safety initiative                   2012-2015      40 transport auditors trained
         adoption of all local and global minimum                  more than 20% of linde and contractor




                                                                                                                          strategy
         operating standards for transport                         drivers w orldw ide trained in pilot
         integration of transport standards in a                   projects from 2009-2012
         global database                                        > more
         training on revised standards for
         employees and transport contractors
         audits to ensure compliance w ith




                                                                                                                          business & governance
         operating standards
         global implementation of new
         behavioural transport safety driver
         training programme (actsafe for
         drivers)
      50% reduction in the frequency rate           2017        > more
      of serious transport incidents (base year
      2012)

      climate protection and energy efficiency




                                                                                                                          environment & safety
      3% improvement in installed design energy     2013           savings of more than 1 m tonnes of co2
      intensity in our air separation                              achieved since 2008
      plants (relative to 2008 baseline)
                                                                   existing goal extended
                                                                > more
      5% improvement in installed design energy     2017        > more
      intensity in our air separation
      plants (relative to 2008 baseline)
      2% improvement in actual                      2015        > more
      energy efficiency in our installed hyco
      plants (relative to 2009 baseline)




                                                                                                                          employees & society
      evaluation of w ays to reduce co2 emitted     ongoing        low co2 emissions included as criterion
      by transport service providers (scope 3                      for selection of transport suppliers
      emissions)
                                                                   driver training courses in fuel efficient
                                                                   driving conducted, including contractors
                                                                > more
      evaluation of emissions outside of our        long-term      business processes assessed in line
      production processes (scope 3)                goal           w ith scope 3 emissions criteria
                                                                   additional scope 3 emission data
                                                                                                                          measuring sustainability




                                                                   published
                                                                > more

      water

      development of a strategy for sustainable     2013           measures and goals evaluated on
      w ater use in w ater-stressed regions                        various sites in order to optimise the
                                                                   sustainable use of w ater
                                                                   pilot study in great britain
                                                                > more




◀ ▶ table of contents

 68 corporate responsibility report 2012



      further key environmental areas

      evaluation of additional quantitative   long-term      new climate protection goals defined
      environmental protection goals          goal
                                                             volumes of w aste generated and total
                                                             w aste-related costs at several hundred
                                                             sites analysed
                                                          > more on climate protection




                                                                                                       about linde
                                                          > more on w aste




                                                                                                       strategy
                                                                                                       business & governance
                                                                                                       environment & safety
                                                                                                       employees & society
                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 69 corporate responsibility report 2012


      employees & society
      goal                                         timeline    progress                                        status

      employee satisfaction

      review of employee satisfaction              2012           second global employee survey carried
                                                                  out, w ith 86% participation rate
                                                                  improvements in all categories relative to




                                                                                                                        about linde
                                                                  2010 survey
                                                                  next global employee survey currently
                                                                  planned for 2014
                                                               > more

      management




                                                                                                                        strategy
      increase in the proportion of w omen in      2018           percentage of w omen in senior
      senior management positions w orldw ide to                  management positions increased to
      betw een 13 and 15%                                         11.3%
                                                                  percentage of w omen in our most
                                                                  important development programme for
                                                                  middle managers increased to 29%




                                                                                                                        business & governance
                                                               > more

      work/life balance

      expansion of childcare support               long-term   budget for daycare places in the munich
                                                   goal        raised, enabling increasing number of
                                                               daycare places from 20 to potentially 45;
                                                               over 100 employees at other german sites
                                                               received a daycare subsidy
                                                               > more




                                                                                                                        environment & safety
      labour and social standards

      evaluation of monitoring systems for         2015        assessment of regional systems for the
      compliance w ith labour standards and                    enforcement of global standards
      human rights                                             implemented as a global annual survey
                                                               > more

      health protection

      expansion and harmonisation of               ongoing        eight global health protection guidelines
      occupational health and hygiene                             approved betw een 2010 and end of




                                                                                                                        employees & society
      management programmes                                       2012;
                                                               > more
      reduction of health risks associated w ith   ongoing        occupational health and safety audits
      manual tasks                                                carried out at more than 60% of our sites
                                                                  linde recognised innovative solutions for
                                                                  handling gas cylinders w ith manual
                                                                  handling aw ard in europe
                                                               > more
      reduction of potential risks from            long-term      subject of w orkload covered in global
                                                                                                                        measuring sustainability




      psychological stress                         goal           employee survey
                                                                  trainings on stress management
                                                                  techniques introduced in some business
                                                                  units
                                                               > more




◀ ▶ table of contents

 70 corporate responsibility report 2012




      social engagement

      development of a global strategy to      2013      global survey of corporate citizenship
      measure the effectiveness of corporate             activities completed
      citizenship projects
                                                         corporate citizenship kpis defined
                                                         further indicators included in corporate




                                                                                                    about linde
                                                         responsibility report
                                                      > more




                                                                                                    strategy
                                                                                                    business & governance
                                                                                                    environment & safety
                                                                                                    employees & society
                                                                                                    measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 71 corporate responsibility report 2012


      gri and global compact index



      linde’s corporate responsibility reporting is based on the global reporting initiative (gri) guidelines for
      sustainability reporting. we follow the version of the gri standard valid at the time of publication (g3.1). the




                                                                                                                                  about linde
      independent global reporting initiative has again confirmed that linde has achieved the highest application level
      of these guidelines: a+.


      the gri index gives an overview of the core and supplementary reporting indicators. it also provides links to the
      relevant content in this report, as well as listing other sources of information. if an indicator has not been covered or
      is only partially covered, we explain the reasons for this. this index also contains links to further information




                                                                                                                                  strategy
      relating to the ten principles of the un global compact (ungc).




      strategy and analysis




                                                                                                                                  business & governance
      ungc    gri       gri indic ator                   status   link within the report    external links             pdf
              1.1       statement from the                        ceo statement
                        chief exec utive offic er
              1.2       desc ription of key impac ts,             strategy                  financ ial report 2012:
                        risks and opportunities                   risk management           risk management
                                                                  business opportunities
                                                                  environment and safety    clean tec hnology by
                                                                  soc ial c ommitment       linde



      organisational profile




                                                                                                                                  environment & safety
      ungc    gri       gri indic ator                   status   link within the report    external links             pdf
              2.1       name of the organisation                  corporate profile
              2.2       primary brands, produc ts                 corporate profile         clean tec hnology by
                        and/or servic es                          business opportunities    linde

                                                                                            financ ial report 2012:
                                                                                            business review
              2.3       operational struc ture                    corporate profile         financ ial report 2012:
                                                                                            c orporate profile
              2.4       loc ation of organisation’s               legal notic e




                                                                                                                                  employees & society
                        headquarters
              2.5       countries where the                       corporate profile         website linde
                        organisation operates
              2,6       nature of ownership and                                             website linde:
                        legal form                                                          management

                                                                                            financ ial report 2012:
                                                                                            shareholder struc ture
              2.7       markets served                            corporate profile         financ ial report 2012:
                                                                                            c orporate profile
                                                                                                                                  measuring sustainability




                                                                                            financ ial report 2012:
                                                                                            business review
              2.8       sc ale of the                             corporate profile         financ ial report 2012:
                        reporting organisation                    financ ial indic ators    financ ial highlights
              2,9       signific ant c hanges during                                        linde annual 2012:
                        the reporting period regarding                                      strategic ac quisitions
                        size, struc ture or ownership
              2.10      awards rec eived in the                   environment and safety
                        reporting period                          climate protec tion
                                                                  capital market
                                                                  diversity and equal
                                                                  opportunities




◀ ▶ table of contents

 72 corporate responsibility report 2012


      reporting parameters
      ungc   gri      gri indic ator                     status   link within the report     external links              pdf
             3.1      reporting period                            about this report
             3.2      date of the most rec ent                    about this report
                      previous report
             3.3      reporting c yc le                           about this report
             3.4      contac t point for questions                cr organisation            website linde: c ontac t




                                                                                                                               about linde
             3.5      definition of report c ontent               about this report
                      and stakeholders                            key material issues
             3.6      boundaries of the report                    about this report
             3.7      limitations on the sc ope                   about this report
                      of the report                               measuring sustainability
             3.8      joint ventures, subsidiaries,               about this report
                      outsourc ing                                measuring sustainability




                                                                                                                               strategy
             3.9      data measurement tec hniques                measuring sustainability
                      and basis of c alc ulations
             3.10     effec ts of new re-statement of             about this report
                      information
             3.11     changes from previous                       about this report          linde annual 2012:
                      reporting periods                                                      strategic ac quisitions




                                                                                                                               business & governance
             3,12     gri c ontent index
             3.13     external assuranc e statement               assuranc e



      governance, commitments and engagement
      ungc   gri      gri indic ator                     status   link within the report     external links              pdf
             4.1      governanc e struc ture,                     cr organisation            website linde: exec utive
                      inc luding responsibility for               promotion of women         board
                      sustainability
             4,2      independenc e of supervisory                                           financ ial report 2012:




                                                                                                                               environment & safety
                      board chairman                                                         c orporate governanc e

                                                                                             financ ial report 2012:
                                                                                             exec utive board
             4,3      management bodies and                                                  website linde:
                      statement regarding                                                    management
                      independenc e of members of
                      the highest governanc e body,
                      senior managers and
                      exec utives
             4.4      mec hanisms to provide                      cr organisation            financ ial report 2012:
                      rec ommendations to the                     involving employees        c orporate governanc e




                                                                                                                               employees & society
                      highest governanc e bodies                  complianc e
             4,5      linkage between the                                                    financ ial report 2012:
                      c ompensation for members of                                           remuneration report
                      the highest governanc e body,
                      senior managers and                                                    financ ial report 2012:
                      exec utives, and the                                                   c orporate governanc e
                      organisation’s performanc e                                            prac tic es
                      with regard to sustainability
             4,6      proc esses to ensure c onflic ts                                       financ ial report 2012:
                      of interest are avoided                                                c orporate governanc e
                                                                                             prac tic es
                                                                                                                               measuring sustainability




             4.7      qualific ations and expertise of            cr organisation            financ ial report 2012:
                      the members of the highest                                             exec utive board
                      governanc e body with regard
                      to sustainability
             4.8      missions, values and c odes of              values and standards
                      c onduc t
             4.9      proc edures employed by the                 cr organisation
                      highest governanc e body to
                      monitor the organisation’s
                      performanc e with regard to
                      sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 73 corporate responsibility report 2012


      governance, commitments and engagement
      ungc   gri       gri indic ator                    status   link within the report   external links             pdf
             4,10      proc esses for evaluating the                                       financ ial report 2012:
                       highest governanc e body’s                                          report supervisory board
                       own performanc e

             4.11      implementation of the                      risk management
                       prec autionary princ iple                  complianc e
                                                                  produc t stewardship
                                                                  environment and safety




                                                                                                                            about linde
                                                                  health and safety
             4.12      support of external initiatives            stakeholder dialogue
                                                                  global compac t
                                                                  diversity and equal
                                                                  opportunities
             4.13      memberships in assoc iations               stakeholder dialogue
                                                                  soc ial c ommitment




                                                                                                                            strategy
             4.14      list of stakeholder groups                 stakeholder dialogue
                       engaged by the organisation                key material issues
             4.15      basis for identific ation of               stakeholder dialogue
                       stakeholders                               key material issues
             4.16      approac hes to stakeholder                 stakeholder dialogue
                       dialogue                                   key material issues




                                                                                                                            business & governance
             4.17      statement on key c onc erns                stakeholder dialogue
                       raised by stakeholders                     key material issues



      disclosures on management approach
      ungc   gri       gri indic ator                    status   link within the report   external links             pdf


      economic performance


                       ec onomic performanc e                     corporate profile        financ ial report 2012




                                                                                                                            environment & safety
                       market presenc e                           corporate profile        financ ial report 2012
                       indirec t ec onomic impac ts               soc ial c ommitment


      environmental performance


                       materials                                  environment and safety
                                                                  raw materials
                                                                  supply c hain
                                                                  produc t stewardship
                       energy                                     environment and safety   clean tec hnology by




                                                                                                                            employees & society
                                                                  energy                   linde
                                                                  climate protec tion
                                                                  business opportunities
                       water                                      environment and safety
                                                                  water
                       biodiversity                               environment and safety
                                                                  biodiversity
                       emissions, effluents and waste             environment and safety   clean tec hnology by
                                                                  climate protec tion      linde
                                                                  water
                                                                                                                            measuring sustainability




                                                                  waste
                                                                  air emissions
                       produc ts and servic es                    environment and safety   clean tec hnology by
                                                                  produc t stewardship     linde
                       complianc e                                environment and safety   financ ial report 2012:
                                                                  complianc e              litigation
                       transport                                  environment and safety
                                                                  transport safety
                                                                  climate protec tion
                       overall                                    environment and safety
                                                                  produc t stewardship
                                                                  risk management




◀ ▶ table of contents

 74 corporate responsibility report 2012


      disclosures on management approach
      ungc      gri     gri indic ator                   status   link within the report   external links   pdf


      labour practices and decent work


                        employment                                values and standards
                                                                  employees worldwide
                        labor/management relations                values and standards




                                                                                                                  about linde
                                                                  involving employees
                        oc c upational health and                 values and standards
                        safety                                    health and safety
                                                                  environment and safety
                        training and educ ation                   values and standards
                                                                  developing talent
                        diversity and equal                       values and standards




                                                                                                                  strategy
                        opportunity                               diversity and equal
                                                                  opportunities
                                                                  labour and soc ial
                                                                  standards
                        equal remuneration for                    remuneration
                        women and men                             diversity and equal
                                                                  opportunities




                                                                                                                  business & governance
      human rights


                        investment and                            values and standards
                        proc urement prac tic es                  supply c hain
                                                                  labour and soc ial
                                                                  standards
                                                                  complianc e
                        non-disc rimination                       values and standards
                                                                  diversity and equal
                                                                  opportunities




                                                                                                                  environment & safety
                                                                  labour and soc ial
                                                                  standards
                                                                  complianc e
                        freedom of assoc iation and               values and standards
                        c ollec tive bargaining                   involving employees
                                                                  labour and soc ial
                                                                  standards
                                                                  complianc e
                        child labour                              values and standards
                                                                  labour and soc ial
                                                                  standards
                                                                  complianc e




                                                                                                                  employees & society
                        forc ed and c ompulsary labour            values and standards
                                                                  labour and soc ial
                                                                  standards
                                                                  complianc e
                6       sec urity prac tic es
                7       indigenous rights
                        assessment                                labour and soc ial
                                                                  standards
                                                                  complianc e
                                                                                                                  measuring sustainability




                        remediation                               labour and soc ial
                                                                  standards
                                                                  complianc e


      society


                        community                                 soc ial c ommitment
                                                                  risk management
                                                                  environment and safety
                                                                  produc t stewardship
                                                                  site safety
                                                                  business opportunities




◀ ▶ table of contents

 75 corporate responsibility report 2012


      disclosures on management approach
      ungc    gri        gri indic ator                     status   link within the report     external links            pdf
                         corruption                                  values and standards
                                                                     complianc e
                         public polic y                              stakeholder dialogue
                                                                     soc ial c ommitment
                         anti-c ompetitive behavior                  values and standards
                                                                     complianc e




                                                                                                                                about linde
                         complianc e                                 values and standards
                                                                     complianc e


      product responsibility


                         customer health and safety                  produc t stewardship
                                                                     complianc e




                                                                                                                                strategy
                         produc t and servic e labelling             produc t stewardship
                         marketing c ommunic ations                  complianc e
                         customer privac y                           complianc e
                         complianc e                                 complianc e
                                                                     produc t stewardship




                                                                                                                                business & governance
      economic indicators
      ungc    gri        gri indic ator                     status   link within the report     external links            pdf
              ec1        direc t generated ec onomic                 financ ial indic ators     financ ial report 2012:
                         value                                       soc ial c ommitment        linde shares

                                                                                                financ ial report 2012:
                                                                                                inc ome tax expense
      7       ec2        financ ial implic ations of                 business opportunities
                         c limate c hange                            climate protec tion




                                                                                                                                environment & safety
              ec3        sc ope of the organisation’s                employees worldwide
                         defined benefit plan                        remuneration and soc ial
                         obligations                                 benefits
              ec4        financ ial assistanc e rec eived
                         from governments
      1       ec5        standard entry level wage and               complianc e
                         loc al minimum wage                         remuneration and soc ial
                                                                     benefits
                                                                     labour and soc ial
                                                                     standards
              ec6        proc edures for selec ting                  supply c hain              financ ial report 2012:




                                                                                                                                employees & society
                         loc al suppliers                                                       purc hasing
      6       ec7        proc edures for loc al hiring               diversity and equal
                                                                     opportunities
              ec8        infrastruc ture investments and             soc ial c ommitment
                         servic es provided primarily for
                         public benefit
              ec9        indirec t ec onomic impac ts                employees worldwide
                                                                     soc ial c ommitment
                                                                                                                                measuring sustainability




      environmental indicators
      ungc    gri        gri indic ator                     status   link within the report     external links            pdf
      8       en1        materials used by weight                    raw materials
                         or volume                                   environment and safety
                                                                     indic ators
      8,9     en2        perc entage of materials used
                         that are rec yc led input
                         materials
      8       en3        direc t energy c onsumption by              energy
                         primary energy sourc e                      environment and safety
                                                                     indic ators




◀ ▶ table of contents

 76 corporate responsibility report 2012


      environmental indicators
      ungc    gri      gri indic ator                    status   link within the report   external links         pdf
      8       en4      indirec t energy c onsumption              energy
                       by primary sourc e                         environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators
      8,9     en5      energy saved                               energy
      8,9     en6      energy-effic ient produc ts                business opportunities   clean tec hnology by
                                                                                           linde




                                                                                                                        about linde
      8,9     en7      reduc tion of indirec t                    energy
                       energy c onsumption                        climate protec tion
                                                                  transport safety
      8       en8      total water withdrawal                     water
                       by sourc e                                 environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators
      8       en9      water sourc es affec ted by
                       withdrawal of water




                                                                                                                        strategy
      8,9     en10     water rec yc led and reused
      8       en11     land in, or adjac ent to,
                       protec ted areas
      8       en12     impac t on biodiversity                    biodiversity
      8       en13     habitats protec ted or restored            biodiversity




                                                                                                                        business & governance
      8       en14     managing impac ts on                       biodiversity
                       biodiversity
      8       en15     iucn red list spec ies and
                       national c onservation list
                       spec ies
      8       en16     greenhouse gas emissions                   climate protec tion
                                                                  environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators
      8       en17     other greenhouse gas                       climate protec tion
                       emissions                                  environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators




                                                                                                                        environment & safety
      7,8,9   en18     initiatives to reduc e                     climate protec tion
                       greenhouse gas emissions                   energy
                                                                  environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators
      8       en19     emissions of ozone-depleting               environment and safety
                       substanc es                                indic ators
                                                                  climate protec tion
                                                                  air emissions
      8       en20     nox, sox and other air                     air emissions
                       emissions                                  environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators




                                                                                                                        employees & society
      8       en21     water disc harge                           water
                                                                  environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators
      8       en22     waste by type and disposal                 waste
                       method                                     environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators
      8       en23     total number and volume of                 environment and safety
                       signific ant spills                        climate protec tion
                                                                  air emissions
                                                                  environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators
                                                                                                                        measuring sustainability




      8       en24     waste deemed hazardous                     waste
                                                                  environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators
      8       en25     water bodies affec ted by                  water
                       disc harges of water and runoff
      7,8,9   en26     initiatives to mitigate                    produc t stewardship     clean tec hnology by
                       environmental impac t of                   business opportunities   linde
                       produc ts and servic es
      8,9     en27     rec laimed pac kaging
                       material




◀ ▶ table of contents

 77 corporate responsibility report 2012


      environmental indicators
      ungc     gri     gri indic ator                    status   link within the report     external links            pdf
      8        en28    sanc tions for non-c omplianc e            environment and safety     financ ial report 2012:
                       with environmental laws and                environment and safety     litigation
                       regulations                                indic ators
      8        en29    environmental impac ts by                  climate protec tion
                       transport                                  transport safety
                                                                  environment and safety
                                                                  indic ators




                                                                                                                             about linde
      7,8,9    en30    environmental protec tion
                       expenditures



      social indicators: labour practices and decent work
      ungc     gri     gri indic ator                    status   link within the report     external links            pdf
               la1     total workforc e by                        employees worldwide




                                                                                                                             strategy
                       employment type,                           diversity and equal
                       employment c ontrac t,                     opportunities
                       and region                                 indic ators on employees
               la2     employee turnover                          employees worldwide
                                                                  indic ators on employees
               la3     benefits                                   remuneration and soc ial




                                                                                                                             business & governance
                                                                  benefits
      1,3      la4     employees c overed by                      remuneration and soc ial
                       c ollec tive bargaining                    benefits
                       agreements                                 indic ators on employees
      3        la5     minimum notic e period
                       regarding signific ant
                       operational c hanges
      1        la6     health and safety c ommittees
      1        la7     rates of injury, oc c upational            indic ators on employees
                       diseases, lost days, and                   health and safety
                       absenteeism




                                                                                                                             environment & safety
      1        la8     risk-c ontrol programmes in                health and safety
                       plac e regarding serious
                       diseases
      1        la9     health and safety topic s                  involving employees
                       c overed in formal agreements
                       with trade unions.
               la10    employee training                          developing talent
                                                                  training on environment
                                                                  and safety
               la11    programs for skills                        developing talent
                       management and lifelong                    diversity and equal




                                                                                                                             employees & society
                       learning                                   opportunities
               la12    performanc e and c areer                   developing talent
                       development reviews
      1,6      la13    composition of staff and                   indic ators on employees   website linde:
                       governanc e bodies                         diversity and equal        management
                                                                  opportunities
      1,6      la14    differenc es in salary
                       ac c ording to gender
               la15    parental leave                             work-life balanc e
                                                                                                                             measuring sustainability




      social indicators: human rights
      ungc     gri     gri indic ator                    status   link within the report     external links            pdf
      1,2,3,   hr1     signific ant investment                    supply c hain
      4,5,6            agreements
      1,2,3,   hr2     sc reening of suppliers with               supply c hain
      4,5,6            regard to human rights issues
      1,2,3,   hr3     training on human rights                   complianc e
      4,5,6




◀ ▶ table of contents

 78 corporate responsibility report 2012


      social indicators: human rights
      ungc     gri      gri indic ator                       status   link within the report       external links            pdf
      1,2,6    hr4      inc idents of disc rimination                 complianc e
                                                                      indic ators on financ ials
                                                                      and complianc e
      1,2,3    hr5      operations involving                          values and standards
                        signific ant risk to exerc ise                complianc e
                        freedom of assoc iation and                   labour and soc ial
                        c ollec tive bargaining                       standards




                                                                                                                                   about linde
                        agreements
      1,2,5    hr6      operations involving                          values and standards
                        signific ant risk of c hild labour            complianc e
                                                                      labour and soc ial
                                                                      standards
      1,2,4    hr7      operations involving                          values and standards
                        signific ant risk of forc ed or               complianc e
                        c ompulsory labour                            labour and soc ial




                                                                                                                                   strategy
                                                                      standards
      1,2      hr8      sec urity prac tic es
      1,2      hr9      rights of indigenous people
      1,2      hr10     human rights reviews and/or                   labour and soc ial
                        impac t assessments.                          standards




                                                                                                                                   business & governance
      1,2      hr11     grievanc es related to                        complianc e
                        human rights



      social indicators: society
      ungc     gri      gri indic ator                       status   link within the report       external links            pdf
               so1      impac t on loc al c ommunities                environment and safety
                                                                      risk management
                                                                      produc t stewardship
                                                                      site safety
                                                                      soc ial c ommitment
                                                                      complianc e




                                                                                                                                   environment & safety
      10       so2      risks related to c orruption                  complianc e
      10       so3      anti-c orruption training                     complianc e
      10       so4      ac tions taken in response to                 complianc e
                        alleged inc idents of
                        c orruption
      1,2,3,   so5      public polic y positions                      stakeholder dialogue
      4,5,6,            and lobbying                                  global compac t
      7,8,9,                                                          soc ial c ommitment
      10
      10       so6      contributions to politic al                   soc ial c ommitment




                                                                                                                                   employees & society
                        parties, politic ians, and
                        related institutions
      10       so7      legal ac tions for anti-                                                   financ ial report 2012:
                        c ompetitive behavior, anti-                                               litigation
                        trust, and monopoly prac tic es
               so8      sanc tions for non-c omplianc e                                            financ ial report 2012:
                        with laws and regulations                                                  litigation
               so9      operations with negative                      environment and safety
                        impac ts on loc al c ommunities
               so10     prevention and mitigation of                  environment and safety
                                                                                                                                   measuring sustainability




                        negative impac ts on loc al
                        c ommunities



      social indicators: product responsibility
      ungc     gri      gri indic ator                       status   link within the report       external links            pdf
      1        pr1      impac t on health and safety                  produc t stewardship         reach website linde
                        throughout the produc t                       environment and safety
                        lifec yc le                                   health and safety
      1        pr2      non-c omplianc e c onc erning                                              financ ial report 2012:
                        health & safety impac t of                                                 litigation
                        produc ts




◀ ▶ table of contents

 79 corporate responsibility report 2012


      social indicators: product responsibility
      ungc    gri       gri indic ator                    status   link within the report   external links            pdf
      8       pr3       produc t information                       produc t stewardship     reach website linde

      8       pr4       non-c omplianc e c onc erning              produc t stewardship     financ ial report 2012:
                        produc t information                                                litigation
              pr5       customer satisfac tion
              pr6       laws and standards related




                                                                                                                            about linde
                        to advertising
              pr7       non-c omplianc e related                                            financ ial report 2012:
                        to advertising                                                      litigation
      1       pr8       complaints regarding                                                financ ial report 2012:
                        c ustomer privac y                                                  litigation
              pr9       sanc tions for non-c omplianc e                                     financ ial report 2012:
                        with laws and regulations                                           litigation




                                                                                                                            strategy
                        c onc erning produc ts
                        and servic es




                                                                                                                            business & governance
                                                                                                                            environment & safety
                                                                                                                            employees & society
                                                                                                                            measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents


 81 corporate responsibility report 2012


      global compact



      linde supports the united nations global compact. every year, we report on how we incorporate the ten global
      compact principles into our business activities. this communication on progress (cop) forms part of our corporate




                                                                                                                                       about linde
      responsibility report 2012. we use the global compact logo to indicate content relevant to the global compact in
      the online report. this content is also listed in the gri and global compact index.


      once again, our corporate responsibility report 2012 complies with the un global compact
      advanced level. to meet the requirements of this top cop reporting level, we provide voluntary
      information on 24 criteria alongside this report. this information is available on the un global




                                                                                                                                       strategy
      compact website. we also consider the blueprint for corporate sustainability leadership, which
      is an action plan initiated by the global compact lead platform.

      the following table provides an overview of the commitments, standards and management
      systems that we use to incorporate the principles of global compact in our business processes.




                                                                                                                                       business & governance
      we also report on the progress we made during 2012, as well as specifying future plans. further information about
      our support for the principles is provided in the text boxes for each action area.


      incorporation of un global compact principles in business processes


      human rights


                                   principle 1:
                                   support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights
      principles




                                                                                                                                       environment & safety
                                   principle 2:
                                   make sure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses
                                   our code of ethics is binding for all employees. in it, linde commits to protecting and promoting
                                   human rights and the core principles of the united nations international charter on human
                                   rights.
                                   our global ethical-legal principles procurement align w ith the principles anchored in the
                                   conventions of the international labour organization (ilo) and the united nations universal
      systems                      declaration of human rights.
                                   our global sheq (safety, health, environment and quality) policy defines how w e protect the
                                   health and safety of our employees. we also include contractors and other business partners
                                   in our occupational health and product safety management programme.




                                                                                                                                       employees & society
                                   the primary aim of our compliance programme is to prevent misconduct and identify possible
                                   compliance violations. suspected abuses can be reported to the linde integrity line.
                                   in 2012, w e again conducted a uniform internal survey on social standards and human rights
                                   w orldw ide. the aim is to check w hether our subsidiaries have implemented processes to
                                   protect social standards. these should prevent child and forced labour as w ell and
                                   discrimination, w hile upholding the right to exercise freedom of association and negotiate
                                   collective bargaining agreements.
                                   we also expect our suppliers to uphold social standards. in 2013, w e intend to expand on the
      progress in reporting        sustainability requirements for suppliers that are currently in force in the different divisions
      period                       and merge them into a single policy. to raise employee aw areness, w e also integrated a new
                                                                                                                                       measuring sustainability




                                   information portal on this topic into our company intranet at the start of 2013. we
                                   conducted over 100 site audits of engineering suppliers during 2012.


                                   > more on labour and social standards
                                   > more on supply chain management




◀ ▶ table of contents

 82 corporate responsibility report 2012


      labour standards


                               principle 3:
                               uphold freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining
                               principle 4:
                               eliminate all forms of forced labour
      principles
                               principle 5:
                               abolish child labour




                                                                                                                                  about linde
                               principle 6:
                               eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation
                               in our code of ethics, w e commit to protecting and promoting human rights. this includes the
                               prohibition of discrimination, harassment, slavery and servitude as w ell as upholding the right
                               to freedom of peaceful assembly and association, and the right to fair remuneration.
                               our global ethical-legal principles – procurement address the issues of forced and child
      systems




                                                                                                                                  strategy
                               labour, communication channels and negotiation structures betw een employers and
                               employees, and equal opportunities and fair treatment.
                               our diversity management programme also aims to prohibit discrimination and actively promote
                               equal opportunities.
                               in 2012, w e again conducted a uniform internal survey on social standards and human rights
                               w orldw ide. the aim is to check w hether our subsidiaries have implemented processes to




                                                                                                                                  business & governance
                               protect social standards. these should prevent child and forced labour as w ell as
                               discrimination, w hile upholding the right to exercise freedom of association and negotiate
                               collective bargaining agreements.

      progress in reporting    from 2012 onw ards, several new task forces have been considering various aspects and
      period                   measures related to gender equality in the group. in 2012, around 20 percent of our
                               employees w ere female, and over 11 percent of our top managers. the proportion of w omen
                               in our major talent development programme for middle managers increased to 29 percent.


                               > more on labour and social standards
                               > more on diversity and equal opportunities




                                                                                                                                  environment & safety
      environment


                               principle 7:
                               support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges
                               principle 8:
      principles
                               undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility
                               principle 9:
                               encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies
                               our commitment to protecting the environment is outlined in our binding code of ethics. our




                                                                                                                                  employees & society
                               global safety, health, environment and quality (sheq) policy defines the framew ork for
                               implementation in this area.
                               our environmental management system, our risk management system and our product safety
                               programme are geared tow ards minimising the environmental impact of our processes and
                               products. this includes preventative measures such as risk analyses and certification of our
                               sites in line w ith international standards, as w ell as monitoring instruments such as audits.
      systems                  raising employee aw areness of environmental and safety issues is also an important factor,
                               and one w hich w e address through various channels, including training initiatives.
                               we are helping to tackle major ecological challenges of our time through our energy and
                                                                                                                                  measuring sustainability




                               environmental technologies. our comprehensive technology portfolio helps reduce the current
                               environmental impact of fossil fuels and cut co2 emissions. we are also driving the
                               development of alternative fuels and renew able energy sources. furthermore, our gases are
                               used to improve the quality of untreated and drinking w ater supplies and to clean w astew ater.
                               our corporate citizenship activities are also supporting environmental initiatives.
                               in 2012, environmental audits w ere conducted at 53.6 percent of our sites. we also performed
                               over 530 audits at customer sites to ensure the conditions w ere in place for proper gas
                               handling.
                               almost half of the employees at linde gas took part in training sessions on occupational health
                               and safety and environmental protection.




◀ ▶ table of contents

 83 corporate responsibility report 2012


                               we set ourselves tw o new global targets for climate protection. by 2017, w e aim to improve
                               the installed design energy intensity of our air separation plants per air gas produced by 5
                               percent relative to the reference year 2008. additionally, by 2015, w e aim for a 2 percent
                               increase in the actual energy efficiency of our installed hydrogen (hyco) plants compared
                               w ith the 2009 level.

      progress in reporting    we have also set ourselves a new target in relation to transport safety: to halve
      period                   the frequency rate of serious transport incidents by the end of 2017 relative to the 2012
                               baseline.




                                                                                                                                    about linde
                               we continuously develop new application areas for our gases and w ork to improve
                               processes and plant technologies. among other solutions in 2012, linde developed a method
                               to reduce emissions of environmentally harmful nitrogen oxides released w hen glass is
                               manufactured.


                               > more on audits
                               > more on energy efficiency




                                                                                                                                    strategy
                               > more on climate protection
                               > more on transport safety
                               > more on innovations
                               > more on products for environmental protection and supply security




                                                                                                                                    business & governance
      anti-corruption


                               principle 10:
      principles
                               work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery
                               our code of ethics prohibits corruption for all employees w orldw ide.
                               this commitment is backed by additional, supplementary guidelines, including regulations
                               governing competitive and anti-trust law s as w ell as our ethical-legal principles –
      systems
                               procurement.
                               the primary aim of our compliance programme is to prevent misconduct and to investigate and




                                                                                                                                    environment & safety
                               penalise possible violations. suspected abuses can be reported to the linde integrity line.
                               in 2012, w e approved a new , global anti-corruption guideline, w hich took effect at the start of
                               2013.
                               to make current information about compliance guidelines and points of contact even more
                               accessible to employees, linde set up a new intranet compliance portal in 2012.
                               by the end of 2012, w e had held more than 36,000 e-learning sessions on our code of ethics,
                               w hile over 6,000 employees around the globe w ere provided w ith on-site training betw een
                               2009 and 2012. in 2012, linde launched a new online course on anti-trust law , in w hich 3,500
                               employees have already participated.




                                                                                                                                    employees & society
                               > more on compliance




                                                                                                                                    measuring sustainability




◀ ▶ table of contents

 84 corporate responsibility report 2012


      independent assurance report



      to the readers of the linde group’s corporate responsibility report 2012


      we were engaged by the executive board of the linde group (further ‘linde’) to provide assurance on the
      2012 data for selected environmental and safety indicators listed in the section ‘scope’ together with the
      related explanatory information in the publication: ‘corporate responsibility report 2012’ (further ‘the
      report’). the executive board of linde is responsible for the preparation of the report, including the
      identification of material issues. our responsibility is to issue an assurance report based on the engagement
      outlined below.



      scope
      our assurance engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether the 2012 data for the
      following selected environmental and safety indicators together with the related explanatory information are
      presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:


         use of resources:                             waste and recycling
           energy                                      transport:
           water                                          number of serious traffic incidents
           resources and materials                        involving trucks


         emissions:                                    occupational health and safety:
           direct greenhouse gas emissions               workplace accidents by employees
           (scope 1)                                     (per million working hours)
           indirect greenhouse gas emissions             number of workplace accidents by
           (scope 2)                                     contractors with at least one day of
           other indirect greenhouse gas                 absence
           emissions (scope 3)                           number of fatalities involving
           emissions to air                              employees
           emissions to water                            number of fatalities involving
                                                         contractors



      we do not provide any assurance on the achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of linde.


      procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of
      information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance.

      the report is published online at www.linde.com/cr-report. indicators in scope of our assurance engagement
      are marked with a “ ”.



      reporting criteria and assurance standard
      linde applies the sustainability reporting guidelines (g3.1) of the global reporting initiative supported by
      internally developed guidelines for reporting on corporate responsibility as described in sections gri 3.6 to
      3.9 of the gri index. it is important to view the performance data in the context of these reporting criteria. we
      believe these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of our assurance engagement.

      we conducted our engagement in accordance with the international standard on assurance engagement
      (isae 3000): assurance engagement other than audits or reviews of historical financial information, issued by
      the international auditing and assurance standards board. this standard requires, among others, that the



◀ ▶ table of contents

 85 corporate responsibility report 2012


      assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to provide
      assurance on sustainability information, and that they comply with the requirements of the code of ethics for
      professional accountants of the international federation of accountants to ensure their independence.



      work undertaken
      our procedures included the following:


         a risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant corporate responsibility issues for linde in
         the reporting period.
         reviewing the suitability of the internal reporting criteria including conversion factors used.
         evaluating the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and
         control of the data for the selected environmental and safety indicators, including the consolidation of this
         data.
         interviews with relevant staff at corporate and regional levels responsible for carrying out internal control
         procedures on the data and consolidating the data for the selected environmental and safety indicators.
         visits to five selected production sites in germany (2), hungary (1) and thailand (2), and four selected
         regions respectively divisions in europe (3) and asia (1), to review the source data and the design and
         implementation of validation procedures at local level.
         evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether the data for
         the selected environmental and safety indicators together with the related explanatory information is
         supported by sufficient evidence.
         an analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all production sites for consolidation
         at group level.


      during the assurance process we discussed the necessary changes in the report and reviewed the final
      version of the report to ensure that it reflects our findings.



      conclusion
      based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that
      the 2012 data for selected environmental and safety indicators listed in the section ‘scope’ together with the
      related explanatory information are not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting
      criteria.



      emphasis of matter
      without qualifying our conclusion above, we draw attention to the explanation on the scope of the emissions
      to air and water, which explains that the values stated apply to production sites legally obliged to report.


      amsterdam, 26 march, 2013

      kpmg sustainability,


      part of kpmg advisory n.v.
      w.j. bartels, partner




◀ ▶ table of contents

 86 corporate responsibility report 2012


      legal notice



      head office
      linde ag
      klosterhofstrasse 1
      80331 munich
      germany

      phone +49.89.35757-01
      fax +49.89.35757-1075
      email info@linde.com


      executive board
      professor dr wolfgang reitzle (chief executive officer)
      professor dr aldo belloni
      mr thomas blades
      mr georg denoke
      mr sanjiv lamba


      supervisory board
      dr manfred schneider (chairman)


      legal seat of the company
      munich, commercial register at the local court of munich, hrb 169850


      value-added tax identification number
      de 113822613


      publication
      the report appeared end of march 2013 and is available in german and english.


      statements relating to the future
      this report contains statements relating to the future which are based on management’s current estimates
      about future developments. these statements are not to be understood as guarantees that these
      expectations will prove to be true. the future development and the results actually achieved by the linde
      group and its affiliated companies are dependent on a number of risks and uncertainties and may therefore
      deviate significantly from the statements relating to the future. linde has no plans to update its statements
      relating to the future, nor does it accept any obligation to do so.




◀ ▶ table of contents
