                                        2015 report




corporate social responsibility
discover more at thermofisher.com/csr

    table of contents


         business
         sustainability    4
         employee
         involvement      12
         philanthropic
         giving           18




    we have one mission:
    to enable our customers to make the world
    healthier, cleaner and safer.




2

thermo fisher scientific is the world leader in serving science,
generating $17 billion in annual revenue. customers worldwide trust
the tools and solutions available through our premier brands to help
them accelerate innovation and enhance productivity.


together, we are making a difference in the world.


  letter from our ceo
  at thermo fisher scientific, everything we do begins with our mission — to enable
  our customers to make the world healthier, cleaner and safer. to fulfill our mission,
  we have a remarkable team of colleagues who bring unique perspectives and talents.
  their dedication leads to innovative technologies that help our customers address
  some of society’s most pressing challenges, including treatment of disease, access
  to clean water and ensuring the safety of our communities.

  our corporate social responsibility (csr) strategy consists of three elements:
  business sustainability, employee involvement and philanthropic giving. each is
                                                                                             marc n. casper
  inextricably linked and together help us fulfill our mission. this report will highlight   president and ceo
  the significant impact and progress we’ve made during 2015 through our commitment
  to csr as a key contributor to our growth.

  business sustainability. through continuous improvement, we develop products that meet
  customer needs while furthering our objective to be an environmentally responsible business.

  employee involvement. our commitment to becoming one of the world’s most admired companies means
  investing in ongoing opportunities for employee development in a diverse and inclusive environment.

  philanthropic giving. through focused investments in science, technology, engineering and math, we hope
  to inspire the next generation of scientists who will fulfill our mission.

  as the world leader in serving science, we are committed to upholding the highest standards in our inter-
  actions with customers, our colleagues and the communities in which we live and work. i am proud of our
  company’s contributions and the many ways we can make a difference in the world by keeping our mission
  at the forefront of everything we do.




  marc n. casper
  president and chief executive officer




                                                                                                                 3

          businesssustainability

    succeeding as a sustainable company in today’s economy requires vigilance. we must
    remain relevant and important to our customers. stable and forward-thinking for our
    investors. and constantly aware of the impact our business has on the world. we meet
    these challenges by:

     providing innovative products for our customers

     increasing productivity through our practical process improvement business system

     maintaining a safe work environment for our employees

     continually reducing the resources and waste that our facilities and products consume
     and produce




4

innovating for a better world
as an industry leader, we have a responsibility to continually seek new ways to facilitate and
accelerate discovery for our customers. our innovative solutions enable our customers to
make the world healthier, cleaner and safer.




$700m r&d spend
   a world without cancer
   the scientific and medical communities are in the pursuit of a lifetime: finding a cure for
   cancer. we partner with customers in the pharmaceutical industry as well as research and
   diagnostic laboratories to develop innovative solutions across the healthcare continuum for
   cancer, from detection to drug discovery. this includes our award-winning thermo scientific
   orbitrap fusion lumos tribrid mass spectrometer, named best new drug discovery product
   of 2015 by the selectsciencetm readers and contributors.

   the next-generation orbitrap fusion instrument is
   empowering scientists to perform more comprehensive
   sample analyses faster and with better accuracy. at the
   biotech research and innovation centre at the university
   of copenhagen, it’s being used along with our next-
   generation sequencing technologies to determine how
   specific cancer mutations target and damage the protein
   signaling networks within human cells. relating this
   genomic data to proteins may result in the development
   of new targets for pharmaceutical drugs – and new hope for cancer patients worldwide.


                    a world with cleaner water
                    our products and resources are being used to provide global communities
                    with access to one of life’s most basic necessities: clean water. we partner
                    with several governments and nonprofit organizations to ensure proper
                    monitoring of water contaminants, which is the first step in providing clean
                    water to enable communities and their residents to thrive.

                    having passed the stringent ccep test in china to qualify for environmental
                    testing, the thermo scientific orion 3106 water analyzer can be used to
                    determine whether water can be safely discharged from treatment facilities
                    to rivers and reservoirs. with this technology available, rural communities in
                    china will benefit from cleaner water sources.




                                                            businesssustainability                   5

    tianjin
    city center




    a world that can respond to disaster
    when disaster strikes, having the proper equipment, training and resources can help save lives.
    through innovative technologies and vast supply chain resources, thermo fisher provides solutions
    needed to keep people safe, including first responders.

    the explosion in tianjin was one of the worst disasters in china in 2015. more
    than 170 people lost their lives and hundreds more were injured. the thermo scientific
    firstdefender rmx and trudefender ftx handheld analyzers, enabled first responders to
    safely, accurately and quickly test thousands of samples for chemical contamination.
    providing on-site analysis of chemicals improved their understanding of the situation and
    kept both first responders and the surrounding communities safe.

    in 2015, the thermo scientific gemini handheld analyzer was honored as one of r&d™
    magazine’s top 100 innovations with editor’s choice honors, as well as a bronze innovation
    award at europoltech. the gemini analyzer can help prevent disasters by detecting the
    chemicals used in certain explosives.                                                      thermo scientific
                                                                                                trudefender ftx




6       businesssustainability

making a positive impact
with customers across many end markets, including pharma and biotech, diagnostics
and healthcare, industrial and applied, and academic and government, we are in a unique
position to help accelerate innovation and enhance productivity for our customers.

our green leaf-labeled products provide our customers with product alternatives that are
less hazardous, are more energy-efficient, create less waste, or use sustainable packaging.




        3,000+            green leaf – labeled
                          skus available
                                                                             thermo scientific nunc conical
                                                                             tubes are now packaged in a
                                                                             compact, recyclable rack that

          800+            new green leaf skus                                eliminates the need to dispose
                          added in 2015                                      of expanded polystyrene (eps)
                                                                             racks in the landfill after use.




   cold storage: sustainability without sacrifice
   in 2015, thermo fisher made a pledge to the white house to reduce
   the use of hydrofluorocarbons by transitioning our entire cold storage
   platform to more environmentally friendly, natural refrigerants. this
   transition – the first of its kind in the lab products industry – will take
   place over a five-year period ending in 2020, and will provide a 49-
   percent reduction in co2 emissions. in that same time period, we also
   plan to reduce the energy consumption of these products
   by more than 50 percent.

   our new thermo scientific tsx series ultra-low temperature freezer
   uses innovative technologies to reduce energy consumption and co2
   emissions by 50 percent compared to conventional freezers. the tsx
   uses natural refrigerants (water-blown foam); is produced in a zero-
   waste-to-landfill production site; and is compliant with the epa’s
   significant new alternatives policy (snap).

   tsx highlights


   50%                          20%                           9%
                 lower                           increase            reduction in           manufactured
                 energy                          in storage          physical               in zero-waste-
                 consumption                     capacity            footprint              to-landfill site




                                                              businesssustainability                            7

    pursuing better paths forward
    the practical process improvement (ppi) business system is our operational discipline. it enables
    us to drive profitable growth by continuously improving quality, productivity and our customers’
    experience.

    our ppi business system empowers every employee to solve problems, large and small, for the
    organization, creating a culture of continuous improvement. in 2015, we launched the kaizen
    institute – a weeklong program that partners employees from different divisions with
    colleagues at a host site. during the training event, employees form teams to
    work on real projects aimed at driving improvements across the
    company.




                                                                                         $170m
    since 2012, our ppi productivity savings have increased




                                                                                $150m
    year over year. in 2015, our ppi business system




                                                                       $110m
    delivered productivity savings of more than $170
    million in our organization.

                                                              $85m
    ppi productivity savings
                                                             2012      2013     2014      2015


        investing time in reducing waste
        in two examples of our ppi business system at work, we were able to significantly
        reduce waste while also creating a safer environment for our employees. thanks to one
        ppi project, we were able to reduce the amount of a hazardous solvent used in the
        production of dna oligos by 14 tons per year.

        in another initiative, our teams reduced paper waste associated with transportation by
        51 million linear feet, by replacing paper packing material with more efficient air pillows.
        the change not only reduced overall waste but also ensured the quality of our products
        through the process of delivery.


                  14 tons/year                                    51m linear feet
                    reduction in hazardous                       of paper waste eliminated
                    waste associated with the                    from transportation
                    production of dna oligos




8            businesssustainability

a site with
sights set high
the citizens of switzerland are passionate
about sustainability. employees at our
écublens site are no exception. over the
last few years, they’ve used our ppi business
system to make great strides toward creating
a more sustainable facility.


in 2015, the swiss government challenged the
private sector to minimize its environmental
footprint. the site rose to the challenge, boldly
committing to reducing its greenhouse gas
emissions by over 100 metric tons by 2020.


ppi projects that have contributed to this
reduction target include:

                                                    “while the financial savings are
• upgrading lighting and windows to
                                                    an important component of this
  energy-efficient alternatives
                                                    campaign, it’s the intangible benefits
• installing solar panels to heat water
                                                    to employee morale and pride in
• implementing a new system to
                                                    working for thermo fisher that
   regulate central heating
                                                    make it worth undertaking.”

and there’s much more to come.
                                                    —gérard couderc, écublens site leader




                                                        businesssustainability               9

     prioritizing environmental,
     health and safety
     as a responsible corporate citizen, thermo fisher is committed to protecting the environment
     as well as the health and safety of our colleagues, customers and the communities where we
     operate. additionally, our commitment to environmental, health and safety (ehs) helps us achieve
     our business goals by enabling productivity and quality improvements, reducing costs associated
     with lost-time injuries or environmental issues, and creating a strong culture of employee
     involvement. examples of the excellent progress we’ve made are shown below.




        from trash to treasure
        much of our extensive r&d and production work must
        be conducted in sterile environments requiring the use of
        disposable gloves and garments. to reduce the impact of
        these operations, we recycle gloves and single-use apparel
        so they can be turned into the raw materials used to create
        eco-friendly consumer products and durable goods.
                                                                                    45    tons of gloves
                                                                                    and garments
                                                                                    recycled since 2012


         environmental facts

               2%                                            15,612                               9,000
               reduction in greenhouse                       cubic meters                         tons of waste
               gas emission (data normalized                 of water saved                       recycled
               by annual revenue)




        keeping our employees safe
        our employees are what make our company great. that is why we take our
        commitment to their safety seriously. over the last four years, our ehs teams have
        reduced our lost-time injury rate (ltir) — a standard industry metric that measures the
        number of injuries resulting in lost productive time per 1 million man-hours worked —
        by 46 percent, to 0.48 in 2015.


         34         sites with 1m+ hours
                    worked without injury




10             businesssustainability

                                                             “the employees in carlsbad have really
                                                             embraced the idea that everyone should
                                                             return home from work safely. the vpp
                                                             certification is testimony to how we have
                                                             created a culture where everyone within the
                                                             organization takes responsibility for safety”

                                                             – merete miles, global ehs director




culture of safety
“safety first” is a culture that has grown through employee awareness at many of our manufacturing
facilities. in 2015, our site in carlsbad, california was awarded the prestigious voluntary protection program
(vpp) certification from the occupational health and safety administration (osha). vpp certification is a
distinction given to organizations that excel beyond cal/osha standards in implementing an effective,
site-specific health and safety program that provides the best possible protection for employees.

the carlsbad team focused on three things in preparation for certification: commitment of leadership, an
active grassroots safety program, and a firm belief that all injuries can be prevented.

carlsbad joins the 12 other thermo fisher sites who hold osha vpp, or equivalent, certifications worldwide.




                                                                   businesssustainability                        11

          employeeinvolvement
     shaping a great culture is beneficial to employees in many ways. it also leads to better
     outcomes for our customers. we value the diversity of backgrounds, lifestyles and ideas
     that make each of our employees unique. different perspectives can bring innovative
     solutions for workplace and process challenges. so we do our best to create an
     environment where all of our employees have access to the right resources, programs
     and internal company networks to nurture their success, including:

     • employee involvement surveys		        • unique benefit offerings
     • talent development curriculum		       • employee-led community and diversity-focused groups




12

50,000
employees
                           50
                           countries
                                                 41%
                                                 women in the
globally                                         workforce


ensuring our employees’ voices are heard
at thermo fisher, we make sure that our employees have a voice, and that leadership
hears and responds to feedback. that’s why we’ve implemented an annual 43-question
employee involvement survey that gives all employees the opportunity to provide
valuable input on:

• company leadership and effective management
• inclusion: fostering a workplace where employees are valued for their
  individual differences
• involvement: employee commitment to the company

the 2015 results showed higher scores on all 43 questions compared to the previous year.




40,000+
employee surveys
completed
                           90,000+
                           freeform comments
                                                        +4.6%
                                                         composite score


“ultimately, our goal is to involve and inspire all of our
colleagues so they can reach their full potential and achieve
their career aspirations here at thermo fisher scientific. and
we know that when our colleagues are passionate about what
they do, our customers will benefit.”
—marc n. casper, president and ceo of thermo fisher scientific




                                                      employeeinvolvement                  13

                                                                                       40
                                                                                       developmental
                                                                                       topics




                                                                                       200
                                                                                       learning
                                                                                       solutions
                                                                                       available




     equipping talent with the tools to grow
     we invest heavily in helping our employees achieve their full potential and career aspirations.
     thermo fisher university, a robust online learning platform, gives employees worldwide
     on-demand access to hundreds of learning solutions, including e-learning courses, videos,
     articles, book summaries and more.

     we believe that having strong managers is critical to developing and retaining talented
     employees. so we launched many new programs in 2015 to help teach, coach and empower
     our managers to be at their best.

     developing capable leaders is also a key focus of ours. our leadership development strategy is
     anchored in four core programs, including: “developing frontline leaders,” “developing emerging
     leaders,” “role of the leader” for our mid-level colleagues, and our “global leadership program”
     for executives. each program includes relevant business simulations covering topics such as driving
     change, leading through innovation and creating and executing strategy.




14         employeeinvolvement

offering benefits beyond the norm
we take our responsibility for providing a productive and positive work environment very seriously.
as a result, we provide a competitive benefit plan that includes health, vision and dental coverage; 401k
options; employee assistance programs for unique hardship situations; flexible work schedule options;
tuition assistance for educational programs related to the employee’s role; and many other options that
help nurture happy, healthy and successful employees.

extended employee benefits include:

       adoption assistance                   hours per year                         discount program
       and in vitro fertilization coverage   of paid volunteer time                 for employees


       commuter benefits                     pto donation                            impact program
       for public transit users              to help colleagues in tough times      (see below)




    making a lifesaving impact for employees with cancer
    through innovative technologies and scientific expertise, thermo fisher empowers our customers to help
    improve patient diagnostics worldwide. and we believe our employees should have access to the same
    leading-edge science they help deliver every day. one employee, in particular, has experienced the
    profound difference it can make.

    larry, a thermo fisher business excellence specialist, received a stage iv lung cancer diagnosis and was
    told the devastating news that he had only a year to live. through our individualized medical pathways for
    advanced care and treatment (impact) program, larry received a second opinion with in-depth testing
    that revealed a life-changing revelation: he had been misdiagnosed. had larry pursued treatment based
    on the initial finding, he most likely would not be here today to share his remarkable story.

    the impact team, led by licensed and board-certified genetic counselors, offers unprecedented high-
    touch support, linking participants like larry to fully customized services that may include second opinions,
    advanced research insights, clinical trial matching and access to cutting-edge tests not typically covered
    by most companies’ health insurance plans.

    the program exemplifies how scientific innovations are empowering individual solutions that save lives.




                                    “i know firsthand that what we do at
                                    thermo fisher scientific saves lives.”
                                    – larry, business excellence specialist




                                                                          employeeinvolvement                       15

     fostering global diversity and inclusion
     diversity and inclusion (d&i) at thermo fisher is integral to our growth strategy and aligns with
     our 4i values of integrity, intensity, innovation and involvement. we recognize that by valuing and
     promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion, we enable our employees to contribute their unique
     perspectives and to fully leverage their individual talents.


     highlights of our progress since we started our d&i journey in 2012 include: partnering with
     external organizations that promote diversity, providing employees with d&i training, fostering
     inclusion through a global webinar series and creating employee resource groups (ergs).




                                                                                2       new ergs
                                                                                        launched

                                                                         the nonprofit pacific southwest minority
                                                                         supplier development council recognized
                                                                         ed weil, manager of the life sciences solutions’
                                                                         supplier diversity program, as 2015 corporate
                                                                         advocate of the year.




         education and awareness
         we provide employees with foundational diversity and inclusion skills, and we support
         career development opportunities to enable the company to facilitate achievement of
         business goals. training is available for employees at all levels within the organization.



         13        global webinars sponsored
                   by the office of d&i                             9,000+ employees
                                                                           trained


          executive webinar series
          launched to connect leadership and employees




                                                                               from left to right: karen kirkwood, vp
                                                                               of corporate communications; marc
                                                                               casper, president and ceo; and alan
                                                                               nevel, vp of diversity and inclusion,
                                                                               speak to employees worldwide during
                                                                               the “enhancing our culture to achieve
                                                                               our vision” executive webinar.




16             employeeinvolvement

empowered employees champion change
ergs are employee-led groups intended to positively impact the company’s growth by providing
a voice of diverse thinking. by forming strategic external partnerships, ergs provide career
development opportunities for employees, contribute to company recruiting efforts, and facilitate
achievement of business goals.

two new global ergs launched in 2015 with powerful goals that support our overall objectives:

• lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allies (lgbta) erg – empower thermo fisher to serve as an
  example of best practices for creating an inclusive and affirming workplace where lgbt and non-lgbt
  employees feel empowered to be their whole and true selves at work.

• possabilities erg – promote awareness and understanding of employees with differing abilities
  and provide support for them, their families and the community.




 6          ergs



 62                erg
                   chapters



   7,500+
   employees participating in ergs




                                                                 employeeinvolvement                    17

               philanthropicgiving




     who influenced newton, einstein or marie curie early in life? when was their passion for
     discovery and creation ignited?

     at thermo fisher scientific, we believe that any opportunity to work with students is
     an opportunity to ignite the spark that may inspire our next great thinkers and leaders.
     fulfilling our mission depends on developing bright young talent to push the boundaries
     of our existing technologies and innovate for the future.

     that’s why our philanthropic efforts – many of which are done through the thermo fisher
     foundation for science – focus on providing financial, in-kind and volunteer support to
     promote stem education, and inspiring students to pursue careers in those critical areas.




18

partnering for progress
our partnerships with nonprofit organizations that promote stem
education enable us to not only support successful programs, but
also to provide employees with additional volunteer opportunities.

in 2015, our corporate grants supported a range of stem-related
activities, including: extended after-school learning opportunities
for kids in inner-city schools, training for teachers in advanced
placement classes and mentoring of college students through
entrepreneurship competitions. those partnerships had a direct
impact on thousands of teachers, students and employees.


our impact

           350
           schools
                                    1,100+
                                     teachers
                                                                18,000+
                                                                  students
                                                                                                    1,800+
                                                                                                    volunteers




                 115,000
                                                   our support of stem education goes
                                                   beyond the lesson plan. for more than three
                                                   years, we’ve partnered with stop hunger
                     meals packaged, supporting    now to organize employee-led meal-packing


                     2,600
                                                   events around the world. these events help
                                    students       get food to students in need, nourishing their
                                    for one year   bodies to fuel their learning.




                                                                          philanthropicgiving                    19

     donating products to help                                                  $2.1m
     change the world                                                           in products donated through
                                                                                in-kind contributions

     the products we donate to organizations around the world
     benefit many causes, including: supporting researchers in
     developing countries, advancing research into personalized
     medicine and promoting stem education through hands-on
     activities in laboratories.




         exposing students to advanced instrumentation
         we donated a thermo scientific tsq
         quantum ultra triple quadrupole mass
         spectrometer system and thermo scientific
         dionex ultimate 3000 uhplc system to
         students 2 science (s2s). these instruments
         will enable s2s to perform high-level
         quantitation of their routine laboratory
         analysis while providing the functionality and
         flexibility to expand their scientific research
         efforts and methods.




     matching our employees’
     passion and generosity                                                       $1.2m
                                                                                  in matching gifts

                                                                                  1,390
     we encourage our employees to pursue their own philanthropic passions.
     and to help them make an even bigger impact on causes and organizations
     close to their hearts, we established an internal employee matching gift
     program. through this program, thermo fisher provides a 50% match of          nonprofits
     employee contributions to their charitable organizations of choice.           supported


20             philanthropicgiving

investing in tomorrow’s leaders
in 2015, more than 180 students benefited from
thermo fisher’s two scholarship programs: one open to
any qualified students pursuing degrees in stem disciplines,
as well as the merit-based thermo fisher scientific children
of employees scholarship program. one of those students
was paige hoerle, daughter of rhonda hoerle, industry
director of pharma sales at thermo fisher.

as a child, paige dreamed of providing basic necessities like
clean water for those in need. after recently graduating with
                                                                        paul mack, sr. applications scientist,
the highest honors in environmental engineering from the                explains the uses and advantages of the
georgia institute of technology in the u.s., she’s prepared             thermo scientific escalab 250xi xps
to make those dreams a reality. thermo fisher supported                 microprobe to the stem scholars from
                                                                        imperial college.
paige’s passion for making the world a better place.

“i expect my children to contribute financially toward a portion


                                                                                      180+
of their college expenses,” rhonda explained. “and thanks
to this scholarship, paige will graduate with minimal student
loans. the scholarship she received from thermo fisher freed
paige up to pursue her academics with increased intensity                              students supported
while allowing involvement in several service organizations.                           through scholarships
i am so proud of her.”




                                                                   rhonda at her daughter paige’s graduation.




                                                                   philanthropicgiving                            21

     inspiring the next generation
     we’ve developed three unique stem education programs that leverage our extraordinary
     internal capabilities, including our products and employees, to inspire the next generation
     of scientists and engineers.


     our impact
             442
             schools
                                       1,200+
                                         teachers
                                                                           21,000
                                                                           students




                              the innovation nation program
                              connects students with thermo fisher
                              employees who inspire them to make a
                              difference in the world by pursuing one of
                              many available career paths in stem.




                             what started as a small competition in just a few
                             schools has grown to reach the entire state of
                             pennsylvania and areas of massachusetts. to
                             be successful in the stem design challenge,
                             students must work in teams to find creative
                             solutions for solving open-ended challenges.



                             we created the stem-credible kit program
                             to address the shortage of supplies for
                             students doing hands-on science in schools.
                             the program provides employees with an
                             opportunity to learn about our ppi business
                             system while packaging kits to be used in
                             science classrooms. the kits include personal
                             protective equipment so students can conduct
                             experiments in a safe and fun environment.




22       philanthropicgiving

a very special delivery
in 2015, employees near boston, massachusetts collaborated to form a meaningful part-
nership with the boston renaissance charter public school. the partnership began with a
team of 60 employees assembling 400 stem-credible lab safety kits. a separate team then
delivered the kits and demonstrated the power of stem and lab safety by leading students
through an innovation nation strawberry dna extraction lab.

this partnership highlights the impact that our stem education programs can have on
both the communities where we live and work, and on our employees.




                                                        philanthropicgiving                23

                                                     waltham, massachusetts:
                                                     through the stem-credible
                                                     kit program, our employees
                                                     packed and donated 700
                                                     lab safety kits to students
                                                     around the boston area.
     eugene, oregon: over the last
     10 years, we’ve partnered with
     george fox university to
     provide students with insight
     into how they can make a
     difference through science and
     innovation. students meet our
     scientists and get hands-on
     experience with some of our
     instruments.




                                       community action
                                       with global reach
     california: more than 70
     employees participated in bay
     area and san diego science
                                       43,917     volunteer hours
                                                  logged in 2015
     festivals, conducting a variety
     of hands-on stem activities for
     over 38,000 attendees.




                                             sao paulo, brazil: through a
     mexico city, mexico: during             partnership with ciranda urbana,
     customer service week,                  over 30 employees read to children in
     employees incorporated                  impoverished communities and then
     our 4i value of involvement             donated 100 books to the organization
     to support the community.               to benefit students.
     employees planted trees and
     picked up 1,100 pounds of
     trash in la hoja park, making
     it cleaner and more enjoyable
     for kids to play in.




24             philanthropicgiving

                                   ashford, uk: as part of
                                   innovation nation, students were
                                   invited to our facility to learn about
                                   the injection molding process.
                                   afterward, students used the
                                   process to injection-mold a dna
                                                                                  lithuania: thermo fisher
                                   double helix that they took home.
                                                                                  was recognized by investors’
                                                                                  forum in 2015 as the “most
                                                                                  responsible company” in
                                                                                  lithuania, partly for our efforts
                                                                                  to promote stem education
                                                                                  and careers. the lithuania cac
                                                                                  helped champion those efforts
                                                                                  by leading important initiatives
                                                                                  that included bringing advanced
                                                                                  bioscience education to 170
                                                                                  schools and nearly 4,000
                                                                                  students via the mobile bioclass.
our community action councils (cacs)
empower employees to give back to
their communities in ways that are
personally relevant to them. this map
highlights the incredible impact these
employee-led groups — present at
more than 40 thermo fisher sites
around the world — are making by
organizing, promoting and coordinating
                                                                                  shanghai, china: we launched
volunteer activities at the local level.                                          the “little scientist” program,
                                                                                  which provided 600 students
                                                                                  in grades four through six with
                                                                                  kits to perform up to 10 different
                                                                                  experiments in the classroom or
                                                                                  at home.




                             mumbai / bangalore, india: volunteers
                             gathered to pack 75,000 meals to support
                             students in underprivileged areas as well
                                                                                  shah alam, malaysia:
                             as provide relief efforts following
                                                                                  employees taught more
                             flooding in chennai and tamil. volunteers
                                                                                  than 60 children from local
                             set a record by packing 25,000 meals in
                                                                                  orphanages about science
                             under 45 minutes.
                                                                                  through a range of fun and
                                                                                  fascinating experiments,
                                                                                  including building a volcano
                                                                                  out of baking soda and
                                                                                  vinegar, and creating an
                                                                                  eruption from mentos
                                                                                  candy and soda.




                                                                            philanthropicgiving                        25

     griindex
     this report contains standard disclosures from the global reporting initiative (gri) sustainability reporting guidelines. we recognize the
     gri as the world’s most widely used standard for sustainability reporting, and are in the process of aligning the report with those standards we
     have used. the indicators listed below as the foundation of our csr report depict the initial progress we have made in aligning our report to
     the gri, and we will continue to use the gri as the standard and goal for reporting future csr information. for more about the global
     reporting initiative, visit globalreporting.org.

        section: strategy & analysis
        g4-1
        ceo letter - page 3
        g4-2
        key impacts, risks and opportunities - page 3


        section: organizational profile
        g4-3
        organization name - thermo fisher scientific
        g4-4
        primary brands, products and services - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/about-us.html
        g4-5
        headquarters location - waltham, massachusetts
        g4-6
        where the organization operates - page 13
        g4-7
        nature of ownership and legal form - http://ir.thermofisher.com/investors/investor-overview/default.aspx
        g4-8
        markets served - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/about-us.html
        g4-9
        scale of the organization - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/about-us.html
        g4-10
        total number of employees by type - page 13


        section: identified material aspects & boundaries
        g4-17
        entities included in financial statements - http://ir.thermofisher.com/investors/investor-overview/default.aspx


        section: stakeholder engagement
        g4-24
        stakeholder groups - page 3
        g4-26
        approach to stakeholder engagement - page 3


        section: report profile
        g4-28
        reporting period - 2015
        g4-29
        date of most recent report - 2014
        g4-30
        reporting cycle - annual
        g4-31
        report contact - find us on twitter - @thermofisher


        section: governance
        g4-34
        governance structure of the organization - http://ir.thermofisher.com/investors/corporate-governance/board-of-directors/default.aspx
        g4-38
        composition of the board and its committees - http://ir.thermofisher.com/investors/corporate-governance/board-of-directors/default.aspx
        g4-39
        whether the chair of the board is also an executive officer - http://ir.thermofisher.com/investors/corporate-governance/board-of-directors/default.aspx




26                 griindex

section: ethics & integrity
g4-56
code of conduct - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/responsibility/resources.html


section: economic, environmental, social
g4-ec1
economic value - page 5-11, 18-21
g4-ec2
climate change value - page 7-10
g4-ec3
benefit plan coverage - page 15
g4-ec9
local suppliers - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/content/dam/tf/responsibility/documents/supplier-code-of-conduct.pdf
g4-en6
energy reductions - page 8-10
g4-en10
water recycled and reused - page 10
g4-en15
ghg emissions (scope 1) - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/responsibility/resources.html
g4-en16
ghg emissions (scope 2) - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/responsibility/resources.html
g4-en17
ghg emissions (scope 3) - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/responsibility/resources.html
g4-en18
ghg emissions intensity - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/responsibility/resources.html
g4-en19
reduction of ghg emissions - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/responsibility/resources.html
g4-en22
water discharge - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/en/responsibility/resources.html
g4-en23
waste by type and disposal method - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/content/dam/tf/responsibility/documents/supplier-code-of-conduct.pdf
g4-en25
hazardous waste - page 8
g4-en27
mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services - page 7-10
g4-en31
environmental investments - page 5-10
g4-en32
new suppliers screened using environmental criteria - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/content/dam/tf/responsibility/documents/
supplier-code-of-conduct.pdf
g4-la2
benefits provied to full-time employees - page 13-17
g4-la6
rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, absenteeism - page 10
g4-la11
employees receiving perfomance and career development - page 14
g4-la12
composition of governance bodies and employees - http://ir.thermofisher.com/investors/corporate-governance/board-of-directors/default.aspx
g4-la14
new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/content/dam/tf/responsibility/documents/
supplier-code-of-conduct.pdf
g4-hr10
new suppliers screened for human rights - http://corporate.thermofisher.com/content/dam/tf/responsibility/documents/supplier-code-of-conduct.pdf
g4-s01
local community engagement, impact assessments and development - page 19-23




                                                                                                                   griindex                        27

thermo fisher scientific inc.               81 wyman street, waltham, ma 02451 usa           thermofisher.com




                                                                                                                © 2016 thermo fisher scientific inc. all rights
                            10% pcw                                                                             reserved. thermo scientific, applied biosystems,
                                                                                                                innovationation are all trademarks of
this piece was printed on mccoy silk with 10% pcw and fsc® chain of custody certification.                      thermo fisher scientific.
