  2 0cor
   01   port
           ae
 s
reponsbi
      i l
        i
        tyre  t
            por

page 2 of 57

a message from our chairman and ceo
at tiffany & co., our goal is to be the world’s most respected jeweler—respected for the beauty of our
designs, the quality of our craftsmanship, the excellence of our customer service and for our commitment
to ethical and sustainable business practices. our position as a leader in the luxury jewelry market
provides us both the opportunity and the responsibility to set an example for the industry and conduct
our business in a manner that is consistent with our core beliefs—protection of the environment, respect
for human rights and support for the communities in which we do business. most critically, we believe
our commitment in all these areas is not only the right thing to do; it is the smart thing to do—a critical
component of our continuing success that creates long-term value for our shareholders.

to that end, we work with civil society, local communities, other jewelry retailers and mining companies
to develop and support higher standards for responsible mining practices. we believe the communities
that host mining activities should receive a fair share of mining’s financial benefits to further their
economic and social development. and where precious metals and gemstones are found in places of
extraordinary natural and cultural significance, we work to protect those areas from mining for the benefit
of future generations.

our sustainability efforts extend beyond our jewelry. we work continuously to improve the sustainability
of our blue boxes, bags and catalogues by increasing the use of recycled content and fsc-certified
sources.

we recognize that our employees are central to our success, and we are committed to treating each other
with dignity and respect.

we also know that we have a responsibility that extends to our business partners to encourage them to
share our commitment to ethical and sustainable business practices.

to support local communities around the world, tiffany continues a long tradition of supporting
charitable organizations. in 2010, we donated nearly 2% of pre-tax earnings to charitable purposes,
including contributions to the tiffany & co. foundation’s endowment. i am proud to serve on the board
of directors of the tiffany & co. foundation, established to provide philanthropic support to
organizations addressing key issues such as responsible mining, urban parks and the conservation of
coral and marine ecosystems.

we are extremely proud of our accomplishments in all of these areas and of our role as a leader in
responsible luxury. and we know that there is much work yet to be done. on behalf of tiffany & co., i
invite you to review the content of this website and learn about our social and environmental challenges
and accomplishments.

michael j. kowalski
chairman and ceo
tiffany & co.




                                                                                                    page 3 of 57

governance
tiffany & co. understands the importance of being a responsible corporate citizen. our corporate
responsibility objectives outline how tiffany & co. embeds environmental and social responsibility within
our business practices.



ethics, compliance and accountability

corporate responsibility objectives




                                                                                                  page 4 of 57

ethics, compliance and accountability
our directors, officers and employees are committed to the ethical principles
embodied within our practices, guidelines and standards.
the board of directors of tiffany & co. sets high standards for the company's employees, officers and
directors. this includes ensuring that tiffany & co. adheres to sound corporate governance principles.
full details on the board of directors, its activities, committees, composition and compensation can be
found on the tiffany & co. investor relations website (http://investor.tiffany.com/) .

the tiffany & co. internal audit department, which reports to the audit committee of the board of
directors, provides independent, objective assurance and control advisory services to the company to
evaluate the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. the internal audit
department also provides oversight and guidance to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations
and company policies, and fosters a positive and ethical work environment for employees.

the tiffany & co. code of business and ethical conduct for directors, the chief executive officer, the chief
financial officer and all other officers of the company (http://investor.tiffany.com/documentdisplay.cfm?
documentid=2700) provides principles which these persons are expected to adhere to and to advocate in
the performance of their corporate duties.

the tiffany & co. business conduct policy sets forth expectations of tiffany employees, including
compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. this policy also prohibits payment of bribes or the
acceptance of payments or other inappropriate gifts, and sets expectations in areas such as potential
conflicts of interest and political contributions. all employees are required to review the policy upon hire
and thereafter on an annual basis to make sure that they understand these standards. except where
prohibited by local law, employees must confirm their understanding of the policy, and either confirm
their compliance with this policy or report any exceptions or violations of which they are aware.

tiffany provides employees with means to report ethical or other concerns, anonymously if desired. these
mechanisms are available globally, except where prohibited by local law; matters reported through these
mechanisms are evaluated and, if necessary, investigated as appropriate.

gov ern an ce structure
tiffany & co. is governed by a board of directors elected by the company's stockholders. in 2010, the
board consisted of nine directors. seven of the nine directors were affirmatively determined as
"independent" by the board, in that none of them had a material relationship with the company (directly or
as a partner, stockholder or officer of any organization that has a relationship with the company), and
also met the requirements to be considered "independent" under the new york stock exchange
governance rules.

qualifications for the board of directors are available in the proxy statement available on the investor
relations website (http://investor.tiffany.com/) .

the board is responsible for oversight of the company's strategy and operations and establishes
committees, as appropriate, to address specific areas of the company's business. the board also
delegates certain authorities to the company's chief executive officer, who then may delegate authorities
to other members of management of the company. michael j. kowalski currently serves as chairman of
the board of directors and also as the company's chief executive officer.

the board meets regularly, receives updates from committees of the board and tiffany & co. management
on a wide variety of topics throughout the year and reviews actions recommended for approval.

csr committee of th e board
based on the importance of sustainability and corporate responsibility to tiffany & co., the board of
directors established a corporate social responsibility committee (csr committee) in 2009.

the role of the csr committee is to review and evaluate management's goals, initiatives and practices for
social responsibility and to recommend goals, initiatives and practices for social responsibility to the full
board of directors.

the committee identifies key environmental and social responsibility issues that may affect the business,
brand image and reputation of the company and provides oversight of corporate responsibility programs.
to view the full charter and mission of the csr committee, visit the tiffany & co. investor relations
website (http://investor.tiffany.com/documentdisplay.cfm?documentid=5558) .

   realizing the importance of corporate social responsibility to the sustainable
growth of the business and our ongoing commitment to grow tiffany’s business
                                                                                                       page 5 of 57

in an environmentally and socially responsible manner, the board of directors
established the corporate social responsibility committee to ensure that we
remain committed and focused on these endeavors.
- lawrence k. fish, chairman – corporate social responsibility committee, tiffany & co. board of directors

in tegratin g sustain ability an d corporate respon sibility
corporate responsibility has long been a priority of tiffany & co.; however, as external awareness and
leading practices have evolved, we have enhanced our management structure and internal processes to
enable continued improvement and leadership on key sustainability issues.

tiffany & co. corporate responsibility efforts are highlighted by the leadership of our chairman and ceo,
michael j. kowalski. our vice president of global sustainability & corporate responsibility, reporting
directly to the chairman and ceo, oversees the sustainability & corporate responsibility department.

the sustainability & corporate responsibility department works globally to ensure that tiffany & co.
operates in the most responsible manner. the department works collaboratively with our internal and
external stakeholders on our corporate responsibility initiatives to constantly improve and play a
leadership role within the industry.

policies an d procedures
tiffany & co. is focused on implementing and continuing to enhance our policies and procedures relating
to environmental protection and social impacts. key practices, embedded within our operations, include:

        employee acknowledgement of the tiffany & co. business conduct policy.
        the response to matters raised through the company's confidential reporting mechanisms
        (reviewed by the audit committee of the board of directors).
        the company's vendor code of conduct, acknowledged by vendors involved in the company's
        manufacturing and merchandise sourcing processes.
        the social accountability program, under which company and vendor manufacturing facilities are
        reviewed.
        tiffany & co. safety, health and environmental policies and procedures for retail and non-retail
        locations.

political con tribution s an d lobbyin g
tiffany & co. has advocated for a number of important policy decisions before various u.s. government
authorities. for example, tiffany & co. has lobbied for the reform of mining laws to advance more
environmentally responsible mining techniques, to encourage the environmental reclamation of historic
mines and to protect areas of exceptional natural or cultural value from mine development.

the tiffany & co. board of directors adopted the tiffany & co. principles governing corporate political
spending (http://investor.tiffany.com/documentdisplay.cfm?documentid=9900) on november 17, 2011. these
principles apply globally to tiffany & co. and its controlled affiliates. tiffany & co. will begin to publicly
report on the principles at the conclusion of fiscal year 2012.




                                                                                                             page 6 of 57

corporate responsibility objectives
tiffany & co. understands that our business activities affect the earth, its resources and the communities
where we operate. we will continue to lead our industry by conducting our business ethically and
maintaining our standards for quality, design and sustainability.

this ensures that we strive to:

      protect the interests of stockholders through responsible business decisions that reflect the
      integrity of the brand in both the short and long term.
      enhance the communities in which we source, operate and sell our merchandise.
      improve the environmental performance of tiffany & co., our supply chain and our industry.

we will achieve these results by:

      continuously improving the corporate responsibility programs in all aspects of our business.
      setting corporate responsibility goals and targets and measuring performance.
      working with our employees, supply chain, stockholders, local communities and civil society to
      strengthen our social impact and minimize our environmental impact.
      complying with all applicable legal requirements, industry best practices and meaningful and
      rigorous voluntary standards.

we will focus our efforts on:

      responsible mining
      responsible sourcing and packaging
      human and worker rights
      environmental performance
      environmental risk reduction
      sustainability advocacy
      local community development
      occupational health and safety




                                                                                                      page 7 of 57

industry leadership
tiffany & co. collaborates with other forward-looking leaders in the jewelry
industry and with nongovernmental organizations in order to positively
influence the entire jewelry supply chain.
conducting business in an environmentally and socially responsible manner has long been an integral
part of tiffany & co.'s commitment to our stakeholders.

tiffany & co. brings attention to issues that we believe are important to the jewelry industry and
consumers. in 2009, tiffany & co. placed an advertisement in national jeweler magazine to increase
awareness in the jewelry industry about the proposed pebble mine in bristol bay, alaska. also, in the
summer of 2009, tiffany & co. dedicated our store windows to an "under the sea" theme in order to
demonstrate our commitment to, and increase awareness of, coral conservation.

respon sible min in g stan dards
tiffany plays a leading role in working closely with the mining industry, jewelry industry associations
(such as jewelers of america (http://www.jewelers.org/) ) and concerned nongovernmental organizations
(such as earthworks and human rights watch) to encourage responsible mining practices.


   tiffany & co. has been an industry leader and an ally in pushing for more
responsible mining and metals production and in taking action to protect
alaska’s bristol bay watershed from large-scale mineral development.
- jennifer krill, executive director, earthworks (http://www.ear thwor ksaction.or g)

in 2003, tiffany & co. helped lead a pioneering multi-stakeholder conference—including ngos, retailers,
investors, insurers and technical experts—to identify best practices across the entire jewelry supply
chain. the resulting dialogue led to the publication of the framework for responsible mining: a guide to
evolving standards (http://www.frameworkforresponsiblemining.org/) . the framework's goal was to advance
productive debate—and, ultimately, action—by governments, retailers, civil society, the mining industry
and others.

tiffany & co. was the first jeweler to embrace the objectives of earthworks' no dirty gold
(http://www.nodirtygold.org/) campaign in 2005, which established aspirational social, human rights and
environmental standards for the extraction of gold that retail jewelers can use as they seek responsible
mining sources.

tiffany & co. continues to co-host, and participate in, multi-stakeholder dialogues convened by ngos on
a variety of issues affecting our industry and beyond. through these dialogues, tiffany & co. hopes to
continue to lead the jewelry industry in issues of responsible sourcing.

tiffany & co. is a founding member of the responsible jewellery council (rjc)
(http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/) . the rjc is an international nonprofit organization, established to
reinforce consumer confidence in the jewelry industry by advancing responsible business practices
throughout the diamond and gold jewelry supply chain. the rjc developed the principles and code of
practices, which outline responsible business practices and to which all rjc members must adhere. in
2011, tiffany received rjc member certification demonstrating that we operate in conformity with the rjc
principles and code of practices. to obtain a copy of the tiffany & co. rjc code of practices policy, please
email csr@tiffany.com (mailto:csr@tiffany.com) .

further, to develop globally recognized responsible mining standards, tiffany & co. is working with the
initiative for responsible mining assurance (irma) (http://www.responsiblemining.net/) to establish a
voluntary system of environmental, human rights and social standards for mining operations. irma
includes participants from ngos, labor groups, communities affected by mining, the mining industry and
the retail sector.

irma aims to provide:

        independent verification.
        fair and equitable distribution of benefits to affected communities while protecting their rights.
        effective responsiveness to potential negative impacts to the environment, health, safety and
        culture.
        enhancement of shareholder value.

tiffany & co. is hopeful that by working collaboratively, this diverse group of stakeholders will develop a
consensus-based, third-party certification standard for responsible mining.
                                                                                                      page 8 of 57

statemen t on h ard- rock min in g
tiffany & co. publicly and actively opposes inappropriate mine development on environmentally and
culturally sensitive lands. for example, in 2004, through a full-page advertisement in the w ashington post,
tiffany & co. urged the united states forest service to deny a permit for the proposed rock creek mine in
the cabinet mountains wilderness in montana.

in the u.s., tiffany & co. supports the reform of the general mining law of 1872 and legislation to assist
in cleaning up abandoned hard-rock mines. we agree with many in the environmental community, the
mining industry and congress that an overhaul of federal mining law is long overdue. tiffany & co. also
understands that achieving mining law reform will require hard work, negotiation, compromise and
creativity in a public, transparent process.

we believe that mining on our public lands should be a privilege and must be carefully measured against
alternative uses, including recreation and conservation. most importantly, we recognize that some public
lands are simply not suitable for mining, and that their value for recreation and conservation is far greater
than their value as a source of minerals.

if reforms are to succeed, we believe that taxpayers must be fairly compensated for minerals taken from
public lands, protection of the environment must be enhanced and business certainty for companies and
communities dependent on mining must be improved.

the toxic legacy of abandoned mines in the american west is also a matter of great concern to tiffany &
co. under current law, government entities, ngos, private parties and other organizations may incur
liability for voluntarily cleaning up mine-related pollution they did not cause. tiffany & co. supports
protection of these "good samaritans" to encourage efforts to effectively deal with these mines and to
establish a permanent source of funding for their cleanup.

th e tiffan y & co. foun dation
the tiffany & co. foundation (http://www.tiffanyandcofoundation.org) was established in 2000 to
strategically support the company's core values through focused philanthropic giving. one of the
foundation's key areas of grantmaking is responsible mining. as a part of this program, the foundation
supports the development of standards for the responsible mining of precious metals and gemstones at
both an artisanal and large-scale level. the development of consensus-based third-party standards is a
long-term process, but essential in moving the industry towards a responsible and sustainable future.
the foundation works with a long-term vision on these critical issues. additionally, the foundation
engages with stakeholders to increase awareness about key issues of importance, such as abandoned
mine reclamation.




                                                                                                      page 9 of 57

responsible sourcing
    tiffany & co. is committed to obtaining precious metals and gemstones and
crafting our jewelry in ways that are socially and environmentally responsible. it
is simply the right thing to do; and our customers expect and deserve nothing
less.
- michael j. kowalski, chairman and ceo, tiffany & co.

tiffany & co. has long recognized the challenges and complexities of obtaining precious materials that
have been mined, processed and crafted in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. we
recognize the importance of having a clear understanding of the origins of the materials contained in our
creations so that we can best meet those challenges.

tiffany & co. actively engages with the mining industry, nongovernmental organizations and local
communities to develop responsible operating standards. we have developed a comprehensive program to
ensure that human rights and workers’ rights are respected throughout our supply chain and to encourage
and support community development in the regions where we source our raw materials. we believe that
industry and communities can work together to find a balance that will lead to more sustainable practices
in the future.



preservation
tiffany & co. is committed to minimizing our environmental footprint and protecting the natural world.



responsible mining
tiffany & co. strives to source our diamonds, metals and gemstones in a responsible manner.



beneficiation
tiffany & co. believes that diamond-producing countries and communities across the diamond supply
chain should derive economic and social value from these natural resources.



paper & packaging
tiffany & co. continuously works to improve the environmental attributes of our blue box, blue bag and
catalogues.



other materials
tiffany & co. ensures that products bearing the tiffany & co. name meet our standards for quality and
responsible sourcing.



supplier responsibility
the tiffany & co. social accountability program ensures that our suppliers operate in a responsible
manner and in compliance with the california transparency in supply chains act and other applicable
sourcing regulations.




                                                                                                  page 10 of 57

preservation
tiffany & co. is committed to minimizing our environmental footprint and
protecting the natural world.
we believe that there are certain special places where mining simply should not take place. we say this in
spite of its importance to our business and the economic and social benefits that mining can contribute
to communities. through the years, we have worked to ensure that these special places are permanently
protected from mining and preserved for the enjoyment of future generations.

        in 1996, tiffany & co. urged the department of the interior not to allow the construction of a gold
        mine that threatened yellowstone national park.
        in 2004, through a full-page advertisement in the w ashington post, tiffany & co. urged the u.s.
        forest service to deny a permit for the proposed rock creek mine in the cabinet mountains
        wilderness in montana because it would threaten the region's water and wildlife.
        tiffany & co. has supported congressional efforts to reform the general mining law of 1872 and
        impose more stringent environmental oversight of mining on public lands. tiffany & co. continues
        to work toward the reform of this antiquated law.


   tiffany & co. has made sustainability an operating premise of its basic
business model. from its commitment to sourcing minerals, to its pioneering
work to clean up abandoned hard-rock mines in the west, to leadership in
advocating that some places such as the headwaters of bristol bay in alaska
should never be mined. in a very real sense, the partnership between trout
unlimited and tiffany & co. is helping to protect and restore the lands and
waters that sustain us as a nation.
- chris wood, president/chief executive officer, trout unlimited (http://www.tu.or g)

bristol bay, alaska
tiffany & co. is working to raise awareness of the risks associated with the development of the proposed
pebble mine in bristol bay, alaska, home of the world's most productive salmon fishery. the proposed
pebble mine would be among the world's largest open-pit gold and copper mines. despite the best of
intentions, 175 years of experience sourcing precious metals tells us that there are certain places where
mining cannot be done without forever destroying landscapes, wildlife and communities. we believe
bristol bay is one such place. in 2010, tiffany & co. placed a full-page ad in national geographic
magazine (pdf/national geographic_dec_2010_cropped.pdf) to increase awareness of this issue. tiffany
signed the bristol bay protection pledge, and declared that should the proposed pebble mine be developed,
we will not source gold from it.

tiffany & co. chairman and ceo michael j. kowalski, who has made several visits to bristol bay, explains:

   there are some special places where mining clearly does not represent the
best long-term use of resources. in bristol bay, we believe the extraordinary
salmon fishery clearly provides the best opportunity to benefit southwestern
alaskan communities in a sustainable way. for tiffany & co.—and we believe for
many of our fellow retail jewelers—this means we must look to other places to
responsibly source our gold.
tiffany & co. is proud to work with bristol bay native communities, concerned scientists, sport and
commercial fishermen, the conservation community and the many alaskans committed to protecting this
pristine and productive ecosystem.




                                                                                                    page 11 of 57

responsible mining
tiffany & co. strives to source gemstones and precious metals from mines that conform to high
standards of social and environmental responsibility. we have a vertically integrated supply chain and
source directly from the mine, when possible. this helps ensure quality and chain-of-custody for our
products. tiffany & co. has collaborated with other forward-looking leaders in the jewelry industry and
with nongovernmental organizations in order to maximize our influence throughout the supply chain.

we are most concerned about the impact of large, industrial-scale mining activities. tiffany & co. firmly
believes in the following core principles for the responsible development and operation of large-scale
mines:

      new mine development or expansion of existing mines should never occur in areas of high
      ecological or cultural value. specifically, mines should never be developed in world heritage sites,
      protected areas categorized by the international union for conservation of nature (iucn) as i-iv,
      alliance for zero extinction sites or key biodiversity areas.
      air, water and soil contamination should be prevented.
      the principle of informed community participation in mine development and expansion should be
      embraced.
      workers’ rights, labor standards and human rights should be respected by all parties.
      mine operators should provide for appropriate and fiscally sound guarantees to cover the costs of
      mine closure, cleanup and restoration.
      mine wastes (tailings) should not be placed in rivers, streams, lakes or ocean waters and should be
      disposed of responsibly.

we believe that the most important contribution we can make to advance a
responsible sourcing agenda is to use the tiffany & co. brand to encourage
jewelry consumers to demand responsibly sourced materials.
in order to further an industry-wide movement towards responsible sourcing, tiffany & co.:

      works with fellow jewelry retailers, the jewelry supply chain, mining companies and civil society to
      raise awareness of responsible mining issues and support the development of broadly acceptable
      standards for responsible metal and gemstone mining.
      raises our voice to publicly oppose new mine developments that threaten places of high
      environmental and cultural value.
      participates in public policy debates as advocates for enhanced regulatory oversight of the mining
      industry, where we believe additional oversight is in the public interest.
      continually refines our long-term sourcing strategy so that tiffany & co. may serve as a model for
      the responsible sourcing of precious metals and gemstones.

for further information on how we procure our mineral resources, please see:




                                                                                                   page 12 of 57

metals
the silver, gold and platinum used in tiffany & co.’s workshops (all of which are located in the united
states) come from two principal sources: in-ground, large-scale deposits of metals that have been
responsibly mined and metals from recycled sources. in addition, we are exploring the inclusion of
responsibly managed, artisanally mined metals, although to date we have found it challenging to identify
sources that meet our procurement requirements. tiffany & co. believes that a sustainable future for
precious metal consumption ultimately depends on the responsible development of all three sources of
metals: large-scale, recycled and artisanal.

tiffany & co. is committed to using the influence of the tiffany brand among
consumers, and within the jewelry industry, to support responsible sourcing
practices in the large-scale, recycled and artisanal sectors.
in 2010, tiffany & co. manufactured 65% of its jewelry at its united states manufacturing facilities. we
choose to source our metals primarily from the united states to minimize supply chain environmental and
social risks. in addition, our third-party vendors also independently source and supply silver, gold and
platinum used in finished goods manufactured for tiffany & co. these vendors participate in the tiffany &
co. social accountability program (http://www.tiffany.com/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)
to uphold our standards for quality and environmental and social responsibility.

silv er
in fiscal year 2010, tiffany & co. purchased the silver used in our own manufacturing facilities from two
united states sources. 68%* of this silver was sourced from the bingham canyon mine in utah as a by-
product of an open-pit copper mine. the remaining 32%* was procured from recycled sources.

gold
in fiscal year 2010, tiffany & co. purchased the gold used in our own manufacturing facilities from two
locations in the united states. 64%* of this gold was mined from the bingham canyon mine in utah as a
by-product of an open-pit copper mine. the remaining 36%* was procured from recycled sources.

the bingham canyon mine is an existing mine which produces gold as a by-product of copper mining
using a non-cyanide leaching extraction method. while there are legacy environmental issues that result
from over a century of mining at bingham canyon, the mine’s owners deserve recognition for acting
responsibly and aggressively to address these issues.

platin um
in fiscal year 2011, tiffany & co. will begin sourcing platinum directly from stillwater mining in montana
for use within our manufacturing facilities. this will include mined platinum as well as platinum recovered
from recycled sources.

v en dor- crafted jewelry
for jewelry crafted by our manufacturing partners, we are working with our vendors to supply them with
precious metal from the same sources that we procure our metals. the remaining metal that they
purchase on our behalf is sourced in accordance with tiffany & co. standards for quality and
environmental and social responsibility. all of these vendors participate in the tiffany & co. social
accountability program (http://www.tiffany.com/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx) .

*metric included in the report of independent accountants
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/aboutreport/accountants.aspx )




                                                                                                     page 13 of 57

tiffany diamonds
tiffany & co. is committed to sourcing our diamonds in the most ethical and
environmentally responsible manner.
to help maintain the integrity of our supply chain, tiffany & co. established laurelton diamonds, a wholly
owned subsidiary that procures rough diamonds and manages our worldwide supply chain that sources,
cuts, polishes and supplies finished diamonds to tiffany & co.

tiffany & co. sources the majority of our diamonds directly from mines in australia, botswana, canada,
namibia, russia and south africa, and we cut and polish those diamonds in laurelton facilities.

tiffany & co. believes that diamonds should benefit the economies and societies of diamond-producing
countries. we invest in manufacturing operations as well as employee development and training programs
at our cutting and polishing facilities in belgium, botswana, mauritius, namibia, south africa and vietnam.

tiffany & co. purchases diamonds only from those countries that are full participants in the kimberley
process certification scheme (kpcs) (http://www.kimberleyprocess.com/home/index_en.html) . further, in
fiscal year 2010, over 80% of serialized diamonds in tiffany & co.’s inventory were purchased directly
either from a mine or a supplier that only sources from known mines.

th e kimberley process
the kimberley process is an international cooperative monitoring system created by governments,
industry and civil society to eliminate the flow of “conflict diamonds”—rough diamonds that are
smuggled by rebel movements to finance wars against legitimate governments. the kimberley process
requires participating countries to tightly control the import and export of rough diamonds. also, the
kpcs requires governments to establish control systems over private sector trade in rough diamonds. to
comply with this process, rough diamonds may only move among participating countries in sealed
containers with accompanying documentation evidencing that the diamonds are “conflict-free.”

we applaud the creation of the kpcs, built upon the cooperative efforts of governments, the diamond
industry and nongovernmental organizations. we are encouraged by the progress that has been made
since the system was put in place in 2003. nevertheless, it is clear that much work remains to be done.

most importantly, tiffany & co. believes, along with many in the diamond industry, that the kimberley
mandate should be expanded to ensure that human rights abuses are not associated with diamond mining
in any member country. we also urge changes in the peer review process to provide for compliance
assessment and monitoring that is independent and avoids conflicts of commercial and political interest.
finally, we believe it is prudent to reconsider the current “consensus” decision-making process that
governs the kimberley process and has, at times, proven challenging for appropriate and timely responses
to noncompliance.

    tiffany was quick to respond to the human rights crisis unfolding in
zimbabwe’s diamond fields. it publicly assured its customers that it would not
buy diamonds from zimbabwe and urged for reforms to the kimberley process
so that it could better safeguard human rights. tiffany is an example that other
retailers should follow.
- arvind ganesan, director – business and human rights, human rights watch (http://www.hr w.or g/)

con cern in g zimbabwe
regarding the widely reported human rights abuses in the marange diamond district of zimbabwe, tiffany
& co. joins with other responsible jewelers in condemning those abuses and urges other industry
participants to refuse to purchase diamonds sourced from this district. although the quality of marange
diamonds generally falls below tiffany & co.’s minimum quality levels, we have advised all of our
business partners of our zero tolerance policy for diamonds of marange origins.




                                                                                                     page 14 of 57

gemstones
tiffany & co. has developed strict protocols for the sourcing of gemstones. tiffany & co. currently sells
over 100 varieties of gemstones in relatively small quantities. due to the highly fragmented and complex
nature of the gemstone industry, traceability levels are not the same for gemstones as they are for
diamonds and precious metals.

tiffany & co. continuously reviews our supply chain to attempt to find ways to
achieve greater transparency and better assure responsible sourcing.
burmese gemston es
rubies are among the world’s most desirable gemstones and many of the finest specimens are mined in
burma (myanmar), a nation cited for human rights violations. in response to these violations, the u.s.
government enacted the burmese freedom and democracy act of 2003, forbidding the importation of
products from that nation, including rubies and jadeite.

tiffany & co. is one of the few retail jewelers that has long respected both the letter and the spirit of the
2003 act. since that time, tiffany & co. has refused to buy gemstones that we can reasonably identify as
being of burmese origin, regardless of where the gems are cut or polished.

in 2008, the passage of the tom lantos block burmese jade act strengthened this prohibition and closed
a major loophole in the previous law that had permitted the importation of burmese rubies and jadeite if
they were cut and polished in other countries.




                                                                                                      page 15 of 57

beneficiation
investing in communities across the diamond supply chain
to help maintain the integrity of our supply chain, tiffany & co. established laurelton diamonds, a wholly
owned subsidiary that procures rough diamonds and manages our worldwide supply chain that sources,
cuts, polishes and supplies finished stones to tiffany & co.

tiffany & co. recognizes that diamond-producing countries want, and indeed deserve, to benefit from
their diamond resources; we wholeheartedly support producer country beneficiation. we believe that
diamond activities should be used to further develop and sustain economies, to create employment
opportunities and to support the broader social goals of communities and nations. it is our responsibility
to contribute to this effort.

our first investment in a producer country was in yellowknife, canada in 2002. since then we have
invested in polishing operations in the following diamond-producing countries: botswana, namibia and
south africa. our facilities have custom-designed, state-of-the-art equipment and our employee
development and training programs are designed to equip the local workforce to meet tiffany & co.’s
exacting quality standards.

tiffany & co. works to support the local communities where we operate. in calendar year 2010, we
provided over $67 million* in beneficiation to laurelton communities.

in order to further invest in communities in which we operate, we hire local employees to work in, and
ultimately manage, our facilities. laurelton provides an on-the-job training program for employees to
train the workforce and provide a lasting impact on the development of the country. from 2009 to 2010,
we increased the percentage of local employees at laurelton facilities worldwide from 95% to 97%.
additionally, tiffany’s social accountability program includes laurelton facilities to ensure that
employees are offered a safe and respectful working environment.

tiffany has worked with outside contractors and academics to ensure that we provide our skilled
workforce fair wages for its work. in 2009, we began to conduct annual living wage studies at laurelton
locations to ensure that trainees are paid above minimum wage in the area and that skilled workers
receive salaries at and above the living wage. tiffany defines a living wage as the rate which is required to
support an employee, meet financial obligations of the employee’s dependents and provide some
discretionary income. the living wage reflects the expectations of the particular society at the time the
calculation is made.

*metric included in the report of independent accountants
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/aboutreport/accountants.aspx )




                                                                                                     page 16 of 57

paper & packaging
tiffany & co. is committed to sourcing our packaging materials and producing
our catalogues from responsible sources, including forest stewardship council-
certified forests and recycled materials.
tiffany & co.’s iconic blue box and blue bag are central to our brand. therefore, we are committed to the
responsible sourcing not only of our jewelry, but also of the bags and boxes in which it is presented to
our customers.

blue bags an d blue boxes
tiffany & co. has been working to ensure that our iconic tiffany blue boxes and blue bags are responsibly
sourced. in 2010, 100%* of eligible materials contained within tiffany blue bags and tiffany blue boxes
were manufactured with forest stewardship council (fsc) (http://www.fsc.org/) -certified materials. the
fsc is an independent, nongovernmental organization established to promote the responsible
management of the world’s forests, evaluating both forest management activities (forest certification) and
the tracking of forest products through factories to the marketplace (chain-of-custody certification). fsc
certification assures that wood and paper products come from renewable and well-managed resources.

in addition, in 2010, more than 83% of the materials used to produce the tiffany blue box® originated
from post-consumer recycled sources.

tiffany & co. plans to continue to source the paper that is used to create our blue bags and boxes in an
environmentally responsible manner.

   tiffany & co. has demonstrated proactive leadership in minimizing its forest
footprint. tiffany & co. responds quickly to global supply chain challenges;
we’ve seen the company fast track a review of its suppliers and eliminate
controversial fiber and suppliers in its procurement. this leadership was further
evidenced when it engaged peers publicly, describing what tiffany & co. had
done and why, and encouraged its colleagues to join in helping to protect
endangered forests in indonesia and around the world.
- lafcadio cortesi, forest campaign director, rainforest action network (http://www.r an.or g/)

catalogues an d station ery
in 2010, tiffany & co. produced our catalogues using over 99% fsc-certified materials and at least 10%
post-consumer recycled content. we also work to limit the number of catalogues produced and mailed. in
addition to traditional catalogues, we provide email communications and electronic versions of
catalogues for customers who prefer digital media. additionally, tiffany & co. has participated in the
catalog choice (https://www.catalogchoice.org/) program since 2008, which allows customers to control the
catalogues they receive.

tiffany & co. offers stationery made from 100% recovered cotton fiber, which is created exclusively for
the company.

packagin g an d collateral
tiffany & co. has worked to minimize the environmental impact of our packaging materials, including
corrugated boxes, tissue paper and bubble wrap. the fiber-based packaging we use contains between 60–
90% post-consumer recycled content, and is recyclable where facilities exist.

during fiscal year 2010, tiffany & co. reviewed the use of product collateral, consisting primarily of
product care cards and customer service-related collateral, and reduced overall paper use by providing
information online and combining content. through this one-time consolidation effort, tiffany & co. will
be able to reduce annual paper use by approximately 4.3 million pieces of collateral.

*metric included in the report of independent accountants
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/aboutreport/accountants.aspx )




                                                                                                  page 17 of 57

other materials
tiffany & co. is more than the world’s finest jeweler; we offer an assortment of luxury goods and
accessories, and we work to ensure that all merchandise meets the same ethical standards.

leath er
in fall 2010, tiffany & co. expanded our business to include leather handbags and accessories. we can
trace the source of all leather at a minimum to the tannery and are working to further the traceability to
ensure that all leather meets the most ethical and environmental sourcing standards.

further, tiffany & co. recently joined the leather working group. the leather working group
(http://www.leatherworkinggroup.com) was formed in 2005 to create a protocol to accurately assess the
compliance and environmental stewardship practices of tanneries and to promote sustainable and
appropriate environmental business practices within the leather industry.

coral

recognizing that unsustainable coral harvesting can damage critically important
marine ecosystems, and that many coral species face a variety of threats, tiffany
& co. has refused to use coral in our jewelry since 2002.
tiffany & co. works to increase awareness about coral conservation and the role that the jewelry industry
can play in its protection. in the summer of 2009, tiffany & co. dedicated our store windows to an “under
the sea” theme in order to demonstrate our commitment to, and increase awareness of, coral
conservation. additionally, tiffany participated in seaweb’s too precious to wear
(http://www.tooprecioustowear.org/) campaign, designed to create demand among consumers and retailers
for coral conservation.

in 2008, michael j. kowalski, chairman and ceo of tiffany & co., testified before congress about the need
for the protection of coral. we support the addition of red and pink coral to appendix ii of the convention
on international trade in endangered species (cites), which lists species that may be threatened if
international trade is not controlled. the cites appendix ii listing is not a ban or a closure of trade;
rather, it is a mechanism that allows for careful monitoring and oversight, requiring that any trade be
based on evidence that the species in question are not threatened by international commerce.




                                                                                                     page 18 of 57

supplier responsibility
tiffany & co. facilities—including diamond cutting and polishing, jewelry crafting and distribution—
operate at the highest standards. no less rigorous are the standards used to evaluate tiffany & co.
vendors. tiffany & co. established a multidimensional social accountability program that includes
comprehensive guidelines for the manufacturing processes of materials we procure, designed to ensure
that our vendors and suppliers are held to the same exacting standards that tiffany & co. is proud to
uphold.

for example, the tiffany & co. social accountability program helps to ensure that our suppliers protect
basic human rights. this program reviews our suppliers’ performance in relation to: hours of work, wages
and benefits, health and safety, freedom of association and collective bargaining, transparency, child
labor, forced labor, harassment or abuse, disciplinary practices, discrimination and environmental
protection.

our suppliers are expected, at a minimum, to conduct business in an ethical manner and to comply with
all applicable laws and regulations. our vendor code of conduct communicates our values and
expectations for our business partners. in 2010, we modified our supplier requirements so that suppliers
review the vendor code of conduct on an annual basis.

to ensure that our suppliers meet tiffany & co. standards, we have implemented a multiphase
assessment process of our supply chain:

   1. vendors are required, when applicable, to complete a self-assessment of their performance against
      our vendor code of conduct.
   2. tiffany & co. performs internal audits of our vendors.
   3. tiffany & co. contracts with a third-party social responsibility auditing firm to provide audits on
      our suppliers.

tiffany & co. third-party audits are conducted over a two-year cycle. during the fiscal years 2010 and
2011 cycle, 23% of all vendors were classified as high-risk, determined by a vendor self-assessment,
industry and geographic location. in fiscal year 2010, tiffany & co. audited 50% of the high-risk
suppliers. 95% of these audits were conducted externally and 5% were conducted by tiffany & co. internal
audit teams. the remaining high-risk suppliers were either terminated in fiscal year 2010 or have audits
planned in fiscal year 2011, in order to perform audits on all of our high-risk suppliers during the two-
year audit cycle.

when suppliers are found to be in noncompliance with tiffany & co. requirements, every effort is made to
work with the vendors to correct their noncompliance. if the vendor continues to fail to meet our
requirements, the relationship is terminated.

this three-tier system ensures that suppliers meet the rigorous demands of tiffany & co.’s vendor code
of conduct plus applicable laws and regulations.

californ ia tran sparen cy in supply ch ain s act (sb657)
as referenced above, tiffany has a comprehensive supply chain auditing program which addresses the
risks of human trafficking and slavery. our audits are conducted both internally and by a third party.
third-party verification is required of all of our high-risk suppliers, determined by a vendor self-
assessment, industry and geographic location.

audits are conducted to evaluate compliance with the tiffany vendor code of conduct as well as local
and international labor laws and regulations.

if a nonconformance is found, we have a corrective actions process to resolve the nonconformance. if
nonconformances persist, tiffany ceases to do business with the supplier.

tiffany supply chain management have received training on our social accountability program, which
includes mitigating risks of human trafficking and slavery within our supply chain.




                                                                                                  page 19 of 57

world of tiffany
tiffany cultivates a positive workplace for our employees and strives to protect and sustain the global
communities in which we operate. the world of tiffany section showcases our employees, our unique
culture and our facilities’ environmental performance.

for nearly 175 years, tiffany has offered our customers timeless style and quality. as the world’s premier
jeweler and america’s house of design, we maintain a standard of excellence in each beautiful piece we
create. these high standards extend to the commitment we make to our customers, the environment and
the communities in which we work. they are also evident in the way we treat our employees and the
benefits offered to them.



our employees

building footprints




                                                                                                   page 20 of 57

our employees
tiffany aims to create an environment that recognizes and rewards creativity, initiative and dedication and
respects diversity, dignity and shared values of community and family for all employees.

div ersity
tiffany honors the dignity of all people and respects the laws, customs and values of the communities in
which we operate. at tiffany, we believe a diverse workforce makes a difference. we recognize each
employee’s knowledge and skills as an important source of organizational capability and competitive
advantage. we welcome diversity in all forms and emphasize personal accountability and professionalism
in a respectful and fair work environment.

we provide equal employment opportunities in compliance with applicable laws. it is the policy of the
company to provide equal employment opportunities to all employees and candidates for employment
without regard to age, race, religion, creed, color, national origin, alienage or citizenship status, sex,
marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information or disability, to the extent
permitted by applicable law. this policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including
hiring, placement, promotion, compensation, transfer and termination. further, the company investigates
all complaints of discrimination, to the extent permitted by applicable laws, and where necessary, takes
action to eradicate all forms of such conduct.

tiffany tracks the diversity of its workforce by gender, generation and ethnicity, where legally
permissible, as self-disclosed by employees.




figur e 1: fiscal year 2010 tiffany gender diver sity: this gr aph r epr esents the global gender diver sity at tiffany by management level.




                                                                                                                                          page 21 of 57

figur e 2: fiscal year 2010 tiffany global wor kfor ce by gener ation and gender : this gr aph r epr esents the tiffany global wor kfor ce by
gener ation and gender as self-disclosed by employees.




figur e 3: fiscal year 2010 tiffany u.s. employee diver sity: this gr aph r epr esents the tiffany u.s. wor kfor ce by ethnic diver sity as self-
disclosed by employees.*



employee dialogue an d en gagemen t
tiffany maintains ongoing communication with our employees. information is shared using a variety of
print, electronic and in-person communications. in addition, while an open door policy is encouraged in
the workplace, tiffany provides employees with means to report ethical or other concerns, anonymously if
desired. these mechanisms are available globally, except where prohibited by local law; matters reported
through these mechanisms are evaluated and, if necessary, investigated as appropriate. employees are
                                                                                                  page 22 of 57

encouraged to take advantage of these resources to share their opinions and voice their concerns.

tiffany conducts periodic employee surveys to measure critical aspects of our culture and climate.
surveys obtain feedback on topics such as management, employee engagement, communication and work
processes. the 2010 employee survey had an 87% participation rate. results indicate that employees are
engaged in important ways that are directly linked to our performance and productivity. for example, the
results indicate that employees: look forward to coming to work and feel motivated to go beyond what is
expected to help tiffany be successful, have good working relationships with their co-workers and feel
they receive the right training to do their jobs. tiffany is also using the survey results to address
identified opportunities for improvement.

employee dev elopmen t
tiffany is committed to ongoing training and development of our employees in all lines of our business.
our philosophy is simple: when an employee grows as a professional, we grow as a company. there is no
better asset than a skilled, engaged and productive workforce.

tiffany provides a variety of relevant educational resources including leadership, sales, technical and
skill-based programs, through various learning methodologies, and in multiple languages.

additionally, we provide a variety of opportunities for career development. for some, it is an upward
progression within their chosen field. for others, it is about moving across divisions or departments. for
still others, mobility is literal: moving to a new location, a different state or continent to gain valuable
experience, along with a different perspective on our business.

tiffany is proud of its high proportion of long-tenured employees. this population helps the company
stay focused on our legacy and maintain our traditions while incorporating the next generation of
employees into our company.

although tiffany works to ensure the long-term success of our employees, like any business, we do have
annual turnover. we analyze voluntary turnover across our operations, by geography and department, to
understand how we can better foster talent.

we also take pride in hiring and training local staff and working to enhance the local communities in
which we operate. for an example of how our laurelton diamonds division supports and partners with the
communities across the diamond supply chain, please see the beneficiation section
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx) of our website.

competitiv e pay, rewards an d ben efits
at tiffany, we recognize the contributions employees make to the company’s success and reward their
contributions through competitive pay and rewards and country-specific benefits, which are designed to
support both personal and family health and well-being, provide security in the event of disability and
provide financial savings and retirement.

h ealth an d welln ess
tiffany invests in our employees’ health by providing a variety of on-site educational and activities-based
programs and services designed to help employees live healthy and productive lives. to support this
important core value, tiffany operates seven nursing clinics at its larger operational facilities, as well as a
physician-staffed medical clinic in its diamond polishing facility in vietnam. these services provide
employees access to free healthcare treatment and consultations while at work. tiffany strives to respond
to health and wellness needs specific to each location. for example, in 2011, tiffany offered free rubella
(german measles) vaccinations for employees working in our vietnam diamond polishing facility in
response to a local outbreak.

in 2010, tiffany launched the healthy tiffany program in the united states to provide our employees with
an internal resource for health, wellness and work-life balance. healthy tiffany provides support through
both at work and off-site programs and classes such as meditation, nutritional counseling and fitness
programs. healthy tiffany also promotes employee participation in community assistance programs such
as on-site blood donation programs that are conducted during work hours. due to the success of healthy
tiffany among our u.s. employees, starting in 2011 we are working on expanding the scope across the
company.

in addition, tiffany provides support to employees and their families for emotional, family, financial and
legal challenges through our employee assistance program. starting in 2011, employees globally and their
dependents have access to free, professional and confidential counseling services as well as online
resources and information.

workplace h ealth an d safety
tiffany assigns a high priority to the overall health and safety of our employees and their work
environments. we strive to provide a workplace free from recognizable health and safety hazards, as well
as retail stores that are safe for the public to visit. tiffany works on integrating health and safety
programming throughout the company.

we have developed workplace health and safety policies customized for both retail and operational work
                                                                                                 page 23 of 57

environments, conducted internal and external assessments of our compliance with these standards and
developed action plans to address any gaps. we monitor workplace incidents to identify and
systematically work to eliminate root causes and related hazards. for example, tiffany is developing new
ergonomic tools, procedures and workstation designs for our master craftsmen to help reduce the risk of
ergonomic-related injuries.

tiffany & co. aspires to eliminate all workplace hazards, accidents and incidences. in 2010, the total
recordable incidence rate—the number of recordable workplace injuries per 100 full-time equivalent
employees—in our u.s. facilities was 2.2.* in 2010, we initiated the collection of workplace injuries from
all global regions and plan to report global performance data in subsequent years.

*metric included in the report of independent accountants
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/aboutreport/accountants.aspx )




                                                                                                   page 24 of 57

building footprint
tiffany & co. continuously works to enhance the environmental performance of our facilities, though our
internal operations do not have a large environmental footprint.

tiffany & co. is committed to energy conservation. to that end, in 2007 tiffany & co. signed on to the
united states environmental protection agency’s (epa) climate leaders (http://www.epa.gov/climateleaders)
program, an industry-governmental partnership that worked to develop comprehensive climate change
strategies. tiffany & co. is on track to meet our goal to reduce u.s. greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by
10% per square foot from 2006 to 2011. as the epa transitions away from the climate leaders program,
tiffany & co. remains committed to these efforts.




at the end of fiscal year 2010, tiffany & co. reduced u.s. ghg emissions per square foot by over 9.2%
from our 2006 baseline. we accomplished these reductions by implementing energy efficiency projects
including lighting retrofits, the installation of energy recovery ventilators and heating, ventilation and air
conditioning improvements.

although we are not a large ghg emitter, tiffany & co. is committed to understanding and reducing our
impact on climate change. tiffany & co. completed our first global inventory of scope 1 (direct) and scope
2 (indirect) ghg emissions for fiscal year 2010, including the emissions from more than 230 stores and
boutiques, two warehouses in new jersey, manufacturing facilities in new york and rhode island and six
diamond division facilities. we will monitor these emissions and look for opportunities to further improve
our efficiency moving forward.


                                                fis c al year 2010 greenhous e gas emis s ions
 emis s ion type                                (co 2 - equivalent)



 sc ope 1                                      3,593 metric tons co2-e*


 sc ope 2                                      40,533 metric tons co2-e*


since 2006, tiffany has been a responding company to the carbon disclosure project (cdp) investor
questionnaire, a voluntary disclosure mechanism which gathers information on the business risks and
opportunities presented by climate change as well as greenhouse gas emissions data from the world’s
largest companies. for further information on our ghg emission reduction efforts and reporting
                                                                                                page 25 of 57

methodology, please see our response to the 2011 cdp investor questionnaire at www.cdproject.net
(http://www.cdproject.net) .

as part of our commitment to protect future generations from the impact of climate change, tiffany & co.
resigned from the u.s. chamber of commerce in 2009 to express our disappointment in the chamber’s
approach to legislation and regulatory efforts to address climate change.

en v iron men tal man agemen t
tiffany & co. works to comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. we have internal
guidelines for our facilities and programs for our employees to ensure their knowledge of regulations, the
proper disposal of waste and respect for local communities and environments. tiffany & co. works to
ensure that waste is recycled where possible.

in 2010, we began a process to enhance the collection of environmental data from our global facilities.
this includes the global collection of waste and water data. as this is the first year of information
collection, we are working to confirm the accuracy of this data prior to reporting. we are currently
monitoring our performance and looking for further opportunities to enhance our environmental
programs.

green buildin gs
tiffany & co. is working to incorporate sustainable building design criteria into our facilities. wherever
possible we source and procure building materials locally. in our retail stores, we work to install efficient
lighting and use sustainable wood sources.

in 2006 we installed over 1.3mw of solar power across our two distribution facilities in new jersey to help
offset carbon fuel-generated power and contribute to the electricity needs of the facilities. in 2010, we
sold the renewable energy credits (recs) generated by these systems. in 2010, we installed an additional
629kw of solar power on one of these facilities. tiffany & co. is constantly evaluating additional
opportunities to use renewable energy and increase efficiencies in our facilities to continuously reduce
our environmental impact.

the tiffany & co. santa monica retail store became our first facility to obtain leed (leadership in energy
and environmental design) (http://usgbc.org/leed) certification. in february 2011, it was certified as
leed-ci (commercial interior) gold. leed is the most widely used green building standard in the world
and incorporates environmental best practices for the real estate and construction industries, including
specific ways to increase energy efficiency, improve water efficiency, use recycled materials and improve
air quality.

in 2011, tiffany & co. will be opening two new facilities that we anticipate will be leed-certified.† our
new york affiliate's headquarters are being consolidated into a leed-ci platinum office. additionally, we
are building a leed-nc (new construction) certified manufacturing facility in kentucky.

†these facilities are anticipated to achieve the specified leed certification stated above.


*metric included in the report of independent accountants
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/aboutreport/accountants.aspx )




                                                                                                      page 26 of 57

charitable giving
tiffany & co. is guided by the belief that a successful company has a
responsibility to the greater community.
tiffany & co. has a legacy of providing support for nonprofit organizations and engaging with civic
institutions in the cities and communities in which we operate.

tiffany & co. has a longstanding history in our hometown of new york city. tiffany & co. was
instrumental in expanding the morgan-tiffany collection of gems at the american museum of natural
history. both charles lewis tiffany, the founder of tiffany & co., and louis comfort tiffany were actively
engaged at the metropolitan museum of art, and many of louis comfort tiffany’s works can be seen there
today. whether through the donation of archival pieces from the company or through the participation in
world’s fairs and expositions in the nineteenth century, tiffany & co. values the role that cultural
institutions play in the world’s great cities.

as tiffany & co. continues to expand globally, our investments in charitable organizations are expanding
as well. tiffany & co. continues this great legacy today through our corporate charitable giving programs
and the tiffany & co. foundation. in 2010, tiffany & co. donated nearly 2% of pre-tax earnings to
charitable purposes, including local community investments and contributions to the tiffany & co.
foundation’s endowment.



community involvement
tiffany & co. corporate giving and employee matching programs support the communities in which we
operate.



the tiffany & co. foundation
the tiffany & co. foundation, an independent, separate legal entity, awards grants to nonprofit
organizations dedicated to design and the decorative arts, cultural preservation, urban environments,
coral conservation and responsible mining. the tiffany & co. foundation is wholly funded by tiffany &
co.




                                                                                                  page 27 of 57

community involvement
tiffany & co. is guided by the belief that a successful company has a responsibility to the greater
community. by supporting nonprofit organizations, tiffany & co. seeks to build strong relationships in
our local communities and to support organizations that work to make these communities better places
to live.

corporate giv in g program
tiffany & co. makes charitable contributions locally, throughout the world, based on the needs and
priorities of the communities in which we operate. through the donation of merchandise and monetary
contributions, tiffany & co. invests in organizations working in a variety of fields: the arts, education,
health and human services, the environment and other civic organizations. in 2010, tiffany & co.
provided more than $6 million to nonprofit organizations through our global corporate giving program.

as tiffany & co. expands to new cities and countries, we believe that we must invest in these
communities as they welcome us. local community investment begins when a new tiffany & co. store or
facility opens. we seek to build relationships with these communities, and hope to increase awareness
about the local organizations’ great work.




employee giv in g
the tiffany employee giving and volunteer matching programs are designed to support our u.s.
employees in their charitable interests, and provide a match as employees donate personal funds or their
time to 501(c)(3) nonprofit organizations. tiffany values our employees, the skills that they bring and
their passions for the issues of importance to them.

through the employee giving program, tiffany matches u.s. employee charitable donations at a ratio of
1:1. under the volunteer matching program, for every ten hours volunteered by our employees, the
nonprofit organization receives $100.

the employee giving and volunteer matching programs award up to $1,000 per employee for charitable
purposes per year, whether the employee donates time or money.

in 2010, 8% of u.s. employees participated in the employee giving program, with over $130,000 in
monetary donations matched. the company also awarded over $39,000 in monetary donations through
the volunteer matching program. in 2011, we are working to enhance participation in these programs.




                                                                                                     page 28 of 57

the tiffany & co. foundation
the tiffany & co. foundation works to protect the beauty of nature and the
creativity of human nature.
the tiffany & co. foundation was established in 2000 as the company's philanthropic arm. the
foundation provides grants to nonprofit organizations working in two main program areas: the
environment and the arts. specifically, the foundation awards grants in the areas of excellence in design,
urban parks, coral conservation and responsible mining.

the tiffany & co. foundation is a separate legal entity, with its own governing board and an endowment
from which it awards grants. since the foundation’s inception, tiffany & co. has contributed more than
$45 million to the foundation's endowment, resulting in over $30 million in grants through 2010.

2010 gran tmakin g
in 2010, the tiffany & co. foundation awarded grants totaling $4,181,000.* the foundation’s 990-pf, the
u.s. internal revenue service’s return of private foundation, can be found on guidestar
(http://www2.guidestar.org/) .

for more information, including program guidelines and a listing of the foundation’s grantees, please
visit www.tiffanyandcofoundation.org (http://www.tiffanyandcofoundation.org/) .




*metric included in the report of independent accountants
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/aboutreport/accountants.aspx )




                                                                                                   page 29 of 57

about this report
time frame, scope and boundary
the tiffany & co. corporate responsibility report is based on our performance for fiscal year 2010
(february 1, 2010–january 31, 2011). this online report is our first formalized corporate responsibility
report and we plan to report on our progress on an annual basis.

our goal is to be open, transparent and honest in our reporting and to continuously improve our reporting
over time. tiffany & co. reports on the corporate responsibility aspects of our business that we deem
material to our business and our stakeholders. in 2009, tiffany & co. conducted a materiality analysis
with assistance from bsr (http://www.bsr.org) and input from nongovernmental organizations. tiffany &
co. performed a review of this analysis in 2010 and will do so annually. the framework for the materiality
analysis includes a review of business risks and opportunities, priorities, industry benchmarks, csr
leader benchmarks, comparison with leading reporting frameworks and stakeholder engagement.

the content of this website was derived in accordance with the global reporting initiative (gri)
(http://www.globalreporting.org) g3.1 framework and the united nations global compact
(http://www.globalcompact.org) .

tiffany & co. has chosen to voluntarily report on our corporate responsibility performance. tiffany & co.
has designed processes to collect and/or estimate, assess and report on this data. tiffany & co.
management is responsible for the completeness, accuracy and validity of the information contained in
the 2010 corporate responsibility report (website). we have engaged pricewaterhousecoopers llp (pwc),
our independent registered public accounting firm, to review and report on select performance metrics set
forth in this report. the individual metrics that pwc has assured are marked with an asterisk (*) on our
definition of metrics page and can be found in the report of independent accountants
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/aboutreport/accountants.aspx) . pricewaterhousecoopers llp’s report of
independent accountants on these assertions is included herein. as we continuously improve our
reporting processes, we plan to expand the scope of metrics assured.

all of the consolidation and calculation rules are defined in the fiscal year 2010 tiffany & co. corporate
responsibility metric collection criteria document, which is updated annually, and is available for public
consultation from the sustainability & corporate responsibility department. the criteria document
provides global guidance on the data and information collected, including definitions, scope, units of
measure, reporting period, calculation methodology and potential information sources. corporate
responsibility data can be measured using various measurement techniques. the selection of different but
acceptable measurement criteria can result in materially different measurements. standardized
calculations have been used to convert units of measure where appropriate. the criteria document can be
requested by emailing csr@tiffany.com (mailto:csr@tiffany.com) .

the report covers tiffany & co. and its subsidiary operations, unless otherwise specified. data was
collected from all tiffany & co. global locations including retail stores, offices, manufacturing,
distribution and warehousing locations. source data used in the calculation of metrics is obtained from
direct measurements, third-party invoices or industry and geographic specific estimates.



definition of metrics
the corporate responsibility metrics that tiffany & co. collects form the basis of this report.



global reporting initiative index
tiffany & co. utilizes the global reporting initiative (gri) as a framework for the metrics in this website.
tiffany & co. is reporting on specific indicators deemed material to our business.



united nations global compact communication on progress
tiffany & co. is a signatory of the united nations global compact.



report of independent accountants
tiffany & co. felt it was essential to obtain limited third-party assurance on the reported metrics.



                                                                                                       page 30 of 57

definition of metrics
this table defines the corporate responsibility metrics reported in this website or used as a basis for the
statements made in the website. complete definitions of each metric, along with the data collection
methodology, can be found in the fiscal year 2010 tiffany & co. corporate responsibility metric collection
criteria document. the criteria document can be requested by emailing csr@tiffany.com
(mailto:csr@tiffany.com) . items with an asterisk (*) are metrics which have been included in the report of
independent accountants.



 governance — ethics, compliance and accountability

 term                             definition

 bus ines s conduc t              the percentage of tiffany employees who have signed and returned
 polic y signatures               the tiffany & co. business conduct policy acknowledgement and
                                  officers questionnaire on time. all employees are required to review
                                  the business conduct policy annually and select officers of the
                                  company complete the officers questionnaire on an annual basis.


 ethic al inc idenc e             the number of ethics concerns raised internally by type and
                                  resolution.




 responsible sourcing — responsible mining

 term                             definition

 metals purc has ed               metals purchased is expressed in troy ounces. the total quantity of
                                  silver, gold and platinum received by tiffany & co. either as a direct
                                  purchase from a mine, metal recycler or included within a third-
                                  party manufactured finished good. data for fiscal year 2010
                                  excludes third-party fabricated metal used in jewelry components
                                  (i.e., clasps, silver beads). tiffany & co. will include this portion of
                                  metals in subsequent reports.


 metal trac eability*


    metals trac eable to          the percentage of total metals that were purchased directly from a
    mine*                         mine as evidenced by the supplier(s) contractual terms.


    metals trac eable to          the percentage of total metals that were purchased directly from a
    rec yc ler*                   metals recycler as evidenced by the supplier(s) contractual terms.


    metals trac eable to          this is a subset of the metals traceable to the mine category and
    artis anal sourc es           expressed as a percentage of total metals that were traceable to
                                  responsible artisanal and small-scale alluvial mines as evidenced by
                                  the supplier(s) contractual terms.


 diamonds purc has ed             diamond purchases are expressed in carats. this includes all
                                  diamonds received at laurelton facilities (rough and polished
                                  stones).


 melee diamond                    melee diamonds are small diamonds which weigh less than 0.2
 trac eability                    carats.


    trac eable to the             the quantity of melee diamonds procured by tiffany & co. that are
                                                                                                 page 31 of 57

  mine                      traceable to the mine of origin as a percentage of total diamonds in
                            inventory by the number of stones purchased as evidenced by
                            supplier(s) invoices and contractual terms.

  trac eable to the         the quantity of melee diamonds procured by tiffany & co. that are
  sourc e                   traceable to a supplier that only sources from a limited number of
                            mines, but not the mine itself as a percentage of total diamonds
                            procured by the number of stones purchased as evidenced by
                            supplier(s) invoices and contractual terms.


serialized diamond trac eability


  trac eable to the         the quantity of diamonds in individually registered products within
  mine                      the fiscal year end inventory that are traceable to the mine of origin
                            as a percentage of total diamonds in inventory by carat weight as
                            evidenced by supplier(s) invoices and contractual terms.


  trac eable to the         the quantity of diamonds in individually registered products within
  sourc e                   the fiscal year end inventory that are traceable to a supplier that
                            only sources from a limited number of mines, but not the mine itself
                            as a percentage of total diamonds in inventory by carat weight as
                            evidenced by supplier(s) invoices and contractual terms.




responsible sourcing — beneficiation

term                        definition

benefic iation              the financial and social value provided to communities in our
(financ ial data*)          diamond sourcing operations. tiffany & co. tracks the following
                            measures where laurelton diamonds has facilities: local employee
                            percentage of total workforce, graduates of worker training
                            program, monetary distributions through payroll and benefits,
                            payments to domestic suppliers of rough diamonds, payment to
                            domestic suppliers, taxes, community investments in public
                            infrastructure and its maintenance, and community donations. this
                            metric is tracked on a calendar year basis.


work er living wage         the percentage of laurelton skilled employees earning a living
                            wage. laurelton diamonds conducts annual living wage studies in
                            each country to ensure skilled workers are paid a fair wage for their
                            work. laurelton has defined living wage as the rate that is required
                            to support an employee, meet financial obligations of the employee
                            toward his/her dependents and provide some discretionary income.




responsible sourcing — paper & packaging

term                        definition

pac k aging us e            the weight expressed in short tons of all packaging materials
                            received by packaging type including shopping bags, set-up boxes,
                            c-fold boxes, corrugated boxes, tissue, bubble wrap and other
                            packaging materials.


catalogue and               the weight expressed in short tons of all catalogue and printed
collateral paper us e       collateral paper received by tiffany & co.


offic e paper us e          the weight expressed in short tons of office paper ordered by
                            tiffany & co. locations around the globe.
                                                                                               page 32 of 57

paper certific ation       the percentage of forest stewardship council-certified paper or
(pac k aging*)             other certified paper as a percentage of overall packaging,*
                           catalogue or office paper. for purposes of purchased packaging,
                           metric is based on paper content within the packaging that is fsc
                           certifiable.


rec yc led content         the percentage of recycled and post-consumer waste material in
                           packaging and catalogue paper received and office paper ordered.


rec yc lability            the percentage of packaging material that can be recycled by the
                           end-user.




responsible sourcing — supplier responsibility

term                       definition

v endor code of            the percentage of direct procurement vendors who have signed the
conduc t signatures        tiffany & co. vendor code of conduct.


self- as s es s ment       the percentage of tiffany & co. vendors who have completed a self-
                           assessment against the tiffany & co. vendor code of conduct
                           during the current two-year audit cycle (fy2010–fy2011).


v endor ris k level        the percentage of direct procurement vendors in each risk level
                           (high, medium, low, unrated) during the current audit cycle. the
                           vendor risk level is calculated through a multi-layered risk
                           assessment process.


audits                     the percentage of direct procurement vendors that have undergone
                           either an internal or external audit during the current audit cycle.


v endor complianc e        the number of direct procurement vendors in each compliance level
status                     of the tiffany & co. social accountability program at the conclusion
                           of the fiscal year.


n on- c omplianc e         supplier incidents of non-compliance by type of non-compliance
                           (hours of work, wages and benefits, health and safety, freedom of
                           association and collective bargaining, lack of transparency, child
                           labor, forced labor, harassment or abuse, disciplinary actions,
                           discrimination, environmental requirements or other) as determined
                           by internal or third-party audits during the current fiscal year.




world of tiffany — our employees

term                       definition

divers ity (ethnic ity –   tiffany tracks the diversity of its workforce by gender (as self-
united states *)           declared by employees), ethnicity (u.s. only, as self-declared by
                           employees) and generation and reviews this by management level
                           (u.s. eeo-1 job classification guide) and geography. the
                           information for this metric is calculated once per year in accordance
                           with u.s. regulatory reporting requirements.


total rec ordable          the number of full-time employees out of every 100 suffering a
inc idenc e rate (united   recordable injury or illness during calendar year 2010.
states *)
                                                                                              page 33 of 57

v oluntary turnover       the percentage of the workforce voluntarily leaving tiffany & co.
                          voluntary turnover includes all full-time employees except those
                          classified as trainees in the laurelton diamond division.


performanc e review       the percentage of employees with annual management plans and
                          annual reviews completed on time.




world of tiffany — building footprint

term                      definition

energy us e               energy use is expressed in mwh and represents all types of energy
                          used by the sites (electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, heavy oil and
                          steam). data is derived from meters, utility invoices or estimated
                          based on facility type and location.


energy cos ts             the total cost in u.s. dollars associated with the energy used at
                          tiffany & co. locations. data is derived from meters, utility invoices
                          or estimated based on facility type and location.


greenhous e gas           metric tons of co2 equivalent and corresponds to greenhouse gas
emis s ions *             emissions related to the energy consumption of the tiffany & co.
                          facilities. it includes both direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2)
                          emissions.




charitable giving

term                      definition

corporate giving as a     total contributions by tiffany & co. to the tiffany & co. foundation
perc entage of pre- tax   endowment, and contributions through our corporate giving,
earnings                  employee giving program and volunteer matching program, divided
                          by fiscal year pre-tax earnings.


foundation                this metric reflects total annual grantmaking by the tiffany & co.
grantmak ing*             foundation in u.s. dollars by program area.


corporate giving          the total u.s. dollar contribution by type of donation (monetary,
                          merchandise) and charity area of focus to local charitable
                          organizations globally.


employee giving           total tiffany & co. donations through the u.s. employee giving
program                   program tracked by matching monetary donations, number of
                          unique employees participating in the program and the number of
                          charities to which donations have been made.


v olunteer matc hing      total tiffany & co. monetary donations made to charities where u.s.
program                   employees have volunteered at least ten hours of their personal
                          time. the monetary value of the matching gift, the number of unique
                          employees participating in the program, number of hours
                          volunteered and number of charities are all collected.




                                                                                              page 34 of 57

global reporting initiative index
this website was developed in accordance with the global reporting initiative’s g3.1 reporting framework.
the global reporting initiative (gri) is a network-based organization that developed the world’s most
widely used voluntary sustainability reporting framework. the gri reporting framework is developed
through a consensus-seeking, multi-stakeholder process. tiffany & co. is reporting on the metrics that
we deem material to our operations. for further information on the global reporting initiative, please see
http://www.globalreporting.org (http://www.globalreporting.org) .



 strategy & analysis

 indic ator       gri des c ription                            res pons e

 1.1              statement from the most senior               ceo statement (/csr/ceomessage.aspx)
                  decision-maker of the organization
                  about the relevance of sustainability to
                  the organization and its strategy.


 1.2              description of key impacts, risks, and       for information on material risks to
                  opportunities.                               tiffany & co., please see the tiffany &
                                                               co. 2010 form 10-k
                                                               (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                               29785)   .

                                                               a description of key corporate
                                                               responsibility impacts, risks and
                                                               opportunities can be found throughout
                                                               the content of this website.




 organizational profile

 indic ator       gri des c ription                            res pons e

 2.1              name of the organization.                    tiffany & co.


 2.2              primary brands, products, and/or             tiffany & co. 2010 form 10-k
                  services.                                    (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                               29785)




 2.3              operational structure of the                 tiffany & co. 2010 form 10-k
                  organization, including main divisions,      (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                               29785)
                  operating companies, subsidiaries,
                  and joint ventures.


 2.4              location of organization’s                   new york, new york, usa
                  headquarters.


 2.5              number of countries where the                tiffany & co. 2010 form 10-k
                  organization operates, and names of          (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                               29785)
                  countries with either major operations
                  or that are specifically relevant to the
                  sustainability issues covered in the
                  report.



 2.6              nature of ownership and legal form.          tiffany & co. 2010 form 10-k
                                                               (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                               29785)
                                                                                                                       page 35 of 57

2.7          markets served.                          tiffany & co. 2010 form 10-k
                                                      (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                      29785)




2.8          scale of the reporting organization.     tiffany & co. 2010 form 10-k
                                                      (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                      29785)




2.9          significant changes during the           as this is tiffany & co.'s first
             reporting period regarding size,         corporate responsibility report, this
             structure, or ownership.                 section is not applicable. further
                                                      information on tiffany & co. can be
                                                      found on the tiffany & co. investor
                                                      relations website (http://investor.tiffany.com/) .


2.10         awards received in the reporting         tiffany & co. does not actively attempt
             period.                                  to win corporate responsibility awards
                                                      and whereas we are proud of any
                                                      recognition we have received, we
                                                      choose to not disclose this
                                                      information.




report parameters

indic ator   gri des c ription                        res pons e

3.1          reporting period for information         tiffany & co. is reporting on its 2010
             provided.                                fiscal year (february 1, 2010–january
                                                      31, 2011) unless otherwise specified.


3.2          date of most recent previous report.     this is the first corporate
                                                      responsibility report for tiffany & co.


3.3          reporting cycle.                         tiffany & co. will be publishing a
                                                      corporate responsibility report
                                                      annually.



3.4          contact point for questions regarding    for information on how to contact
             the report or its contents.              tiffany & co., please see customer
                                                      service
                                                      (http://www.tiffany.com/customer/request/emailcustsvr.aspx)

                                                      .


3.5          process for defining report content.     about this report (/csr/aboutreport/default.aspx)


3.6          boundary of the report.                  about this report (/csr/aboutreport/default.aspx)


3.7          state any specific limitations on the    the scope and boundary of the report
             scope or boundary of the report.         are defined in the about this report
                                                      (/csr/aboutreport/default.aspx) section of this

                                                      website. any metric with a limited
                                                      scope is defined within the discussion
                                                      on that specific metric.


3.8          basis for reporting on joint ventures,   about this report (/csr/aboutreport/default.aspx)
             subsidiaries, leased facilities,
             outsourced operations, and other
             entities that can significantly affect                                                           page 36 of 57

             comparability from period to period
             and/or between organizations.


3.9          data measurement techniques and the       about this report (/csr/aboutreport/default.aspx)
             bases of calculations, including
             assumptions and techniques
             underlying estimations applied to the
             compilation of the indicators and
             other information in the report.


3.10         explanation of the effect of any re-      not applicable
             statements of information provided in
             earlier reports, and the reasons for
             such re-statement.


3.11         significant changes from previous         not applicable
             reporting periods in the scope,
             boundary, or measurement methods
             applied in the report.


3.12         table identifying the location of the     this table was created to help the
             standard disclosures in the report.       reader determine where specific gri
                                                       indicators can be found within this
                                                       website.


3.13         policy and current practice with regard   tiffany & co. engaged
             to seeking external assurance for the     pricewaterhousecoopers llp to
             report.                                   provide limited assurance on the
                                                       tiffany & co. corporate responsibility
                                                       report. a copy of the letter and a
                                                       description of the level of assurance
                                                       provided can be found in the report of
                                                       independent accountants
                                                       (/csr/aboutreport/accountants.aspx) .




governance, commitments, and engagement

indic ator   gri des c ription                         res pons e

4.1          governance structure of the               a description of the governance
             organization.                             structure of tiffany & co. as it relates
                                                       to corporate responsibility can be
                                                       found within the governance
                                                       (/csr/governance/default.aspx) section. further

                                                       information on governance at tiffany
                                                       & co. can be found on the tiffany &
                                                       co. proxy statement
                                                       (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-

                                                       34004)   .


4.2          indicate whether the chair of the         michael j. kowalski serves as chairman
             highest governance body is also an        of the board and chief executive
             executive officer.                        officer of tiffany & co.


4.3          for organizations that have a unitary     governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
             board structure, state the number of
             members of the highest governance
             body that are independent and/or
             non-executive members.


4.4          mechanisms for shareholders and           governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
                                                                                                               page 37 of 57

       employees to provide                        tiffany & co. proxy statement
       recommendations or direction to the         (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                   34004)
       highest governance body.

4.5    linkage between compensation for            tiffany & co. proxy statement
       members of the highest governance           (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                   34004)
       body, senior managers, and executives
       (including departure arrangements),
       and the organization’s performance
       (including social and environmental
       performance).


4.6    processes in place for the highest          tiffany & co. proxy statement
       governance body to ensure conflicts of      (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                   34004)
       interest are avoided.


4.7    process for determining the                 governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
       composition, qualifications, and            tiffany & co. proxy statement
       expertise of the members of the             (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                   34004)
       highest governance body for guiding
       the organization’s strategy on
       economic, environmental, and social
       topics.



4.8    internally developed statements of          governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
       mission or values, codes of conduct,
       and principles relevant to economic,
       environmental, and social performance
       and the status of their
       implementation.


4.9    procedures of the highest governance        governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
       body for overseeing the organization’s      tiffany & co. proxy statement
       identification and management of            (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                   34004)
       economic, environmental, and social
       performance, including relevant risks
       and opportunities, and adherence or
       compliance with internationally agreed
       standards, codes of conduct, and
       principles.


4.10   processes for evaluating the highest        tiffany & co. proxy statement
       governance body’s own performance,          (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                   34004)
       particularly with respect to economic,
       environmental, and social
       performance.


4.11   explanation of whether and how the          tiffany & co. supports the
       precautionary approach or principle is      precautionary approach to
       addressed by the organization.              environmental challenges as defined
                                                   under the un global compact.


4.12   externally developed economic,              tiffany & co. has integrated, and is
       environmental, and social charters,         working to improve, many external,
       principles, or other initiatives to which   third-party initiatives that relate to the
       the organization subscribes or              economic, environmental and social
       endorses.                                   impacts of tiffany. information on
                                                   these initiatives can be found in the
                                                   industry leadership
                                                   (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx) , responsible

                                                   sourcing (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx) and
                                                   world of tiffany (/csr/worldoftiffany/default.aspx)
                                                   sections of this website.

                                                                                                           page 38 of 57

                                                      in 2011, tiffany & co. joined the
                                                      united nations global compact. please
                                                      see our united nations global
                                                      compact communication on progress
                                                      (/csr/aboutreport/globalcompact.aspx) .



4.13         memberships in associations (such as     selected memberships are listed in
             industry associations) and/or            industry leadership
             national/international advocacy          (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx) and throughout
             organizations.                           the content of this website.


4.14         list of stakeholder groups engaged by    this information is reported
             the organization.                        throughout the content of this
                                                      website.


4.15         basis for identification and selection   information on tiffany & co. practices
             of stakeholders with whom to engage.     for stakeholder engagement can be
                                                      found within the governance
                                                      (/csr/governance/default.aspx) , industry

                                                      leadership (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx) and
                                                      about this report (/csr/aboutreport/default.aspx)
                                                      sections of this website.


4.16         approaches to stakeholder                information on tiffany & co.
             engagement, including frequency of       approaches to stakeholder
             engagement by type and by                engagement can be found within the
             stakeholder group.                       governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx) ,
                                                      industry leadership
                                                      (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx) and about this

                                                      report (/csr/aboutreport/default.aspx) sections of
                                                      this website.



4.17         key topics and concerns that have        this information is reported
             been raised through stakeholder          throughout the content of this
             engagement, and how the organization     website.
             has responded to those key topics and
             concerns, including through its
             reporting.




performance indicators—economic

indic ator   gri des c ription                        res pons e

ec1          direct economic value generated and      tiffany & co. 2010 financial
             distributed, including revenues,         information can be found within the
             operating costs, employee                tiffany & co. 2010 form 10-k
             compensation, donations, and other       (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-

             community investments, retained          29785)   .
             earnings, and payments to capital
             providers and governments.               information on tiffany & co.
                                                      donations and the tiffany & co.
                                                      foundation's grantmaking can be
                                                      found within the charitable giving
                                                      (/csr/charitablegiving/default.aspx) section of this

                                                      website.

                                                      information on how tiffany & co.
                                                      supports the communities across the
                                                      diamond supply chain can be found
                                                      within the beneficiation
                                                      (/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx)
                                                      section of this website.

                                                                                                              page 39 of 57

ec2          financial implications and other risks     for information on the financial
             and opportunities for the                  implications and other risks and
             organization’s activities due to climate   opportunities associated with climate
             change.                                    change, please see the tiffany & co.
                                                        response to the 2011 cdp investor
                                                        questionnaire at www.cdproject.net
                                                        (https://www.cdproject.net) .




ec3          coverage of the organization’s defined     tiffany & co. 2010 proxy statement
             benefit plan obligations.                  (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                        34004)




ec4          significant financial assistance           tiffany & co. 2010 proxy statement
             received from government.                  (http://investor.tiffany.com/secfiling.cfm?filingid=950123-11-
                                                        34004)




ec5          range of ratios of standard entry level    not disclosed
             wage by gender compared to local
             minimum wage at significant locations
             of operation.


ec6          policy, practices, and proportion of       for information on the use of locally-
             spending on locally-based suppliers at     based suppliers by tiffany & co.,
             significant locations of operation.        please see metals
                                                        (/csr/responsiblesourcing/miningmetals.aspx) and

                                                        beneficiation
                                                        (/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx) ,
                                                        within the responsible sourcing
                                                        (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx) section of this

                                                        website.


ec7          procedures for local hiring and            please see beneficiation
             proportion of senior management                                                            within
                                                        (/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx)

             hired from the local community at          the responsible sourcing
             locations of significant operation.        (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx) section of this

                                                        website.


ec8          development and impact of                  for information on the investments
             infrastructure investments and             and impacts tiffany & co. makes in
             services provided primarily of public      the communities across the diamond
             benefit through commercial, in-kind,       supply chain, please see the
             or pro bono engagement.                    beneficiation
                                                        (/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx)

                                                        section of this website.


ec9          understanding and describing               industry leadership
             significant indirect economic impacts,     (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)

             including the extent of impacts.           responsible sourcing
                                                        (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx)




performance indicators—environmental

indic ator   gri des c ription                          res pons e

en 1         materials used by weight or volume.        tiffany & co. does not disclose the
                                                        exact quantity of materials that we
                                                        use, as we find this to be proprietary.


en 2         percentage of materials used that are      tiffany & co. works to increase the
             recycled input materials.                  percentage of recycled content in the
                                                        materials that we use.

                                                                                                                page 40 of 57

                                                  information can be found within the
                                                  metals (/csr/responsiblesourcing/miningmetals.aspx) and
                                                  paper & packaging
                                                  (/csr/responsiblesourcing/paperpackaging.aspx) sections
                                                  of this website.

en 3    direct energy consumption by primary      building footprint
        energy source.                            (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)
                                                  tiffany & co. response to the 2011
                                                  cdp investor questionnaire at
                                                  www.cdproject.net (https://www.cdproject.net)


en 4    indirect energy consumption by            building footprint
        primary source.                           (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)

                                                  tiffany & co. response to the 2011
                                                  cdp investor questionnaire at
                                                  www.cdproject.net (https://www.cdproject.net)


en 5    energy saved due to conservation and      building footprint
        efficiency improvements.                  (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)

                                                  tiffany & co. response to the 2011
                                                  cdp investor questionnaire at
                                                  www.cdproject.net (https://www.cdproject.net)


en 6    initiatives to provide energy-efficient   not applicable
        or renewable energy based products
        and services, and reductions in energy
        requirements as a result of these
        initiatives.


en 7    initiatives to reduce indirect energy     building footprint
        consumption and reductions achieved.      (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)

                                                  tiffany & co. response to the 2011
                                                  cdp investor questionnaire at
                                                  www.cdproject.net (https://www.cdproject.net)


en 8    total water withdrawal by source.         tiffany & co. started to collect water
                                                  use data in 2010 from our global
                                                  facilities. we do not report on water
                                                  withdrawal at this time.


en 9    water sources significantly affected by   not applicable
        withdrawal of water.


en 10   percentage and total volume of water      tiffany & co. started to collect water
        recycled and reused.                      use data in 2010 from our global
                                                  facilities. we do not report on water
                                                  reuse or recycling at this time.


en 11   location and size of land owned,          for further information on how we
        leased, managed in, or adjacent to,       work to protect areas of high
        protected areas and areas of high         biodiversity value from the
        biodiversity value outside protected      environmental effects of mining,
        areas.                                    please see the preservation
                                                  (/csr/responsiblesourcing/preservation.aspx) and

                                                  industry leadership
                                                  (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx) sections of this
                                                  website.


en 12   description of significant impacts of     a description of the potential impacts
        activities, products, and services on     to biodiversity by raw material
        biodiversity in protected areas and       sourcing can be found within the
        areas of high biodiversity value          preservation
        outside protected areas.                  (/csr/responsiblesourcing/preservation.aspx) section of
                                                                                                      page 41 of 57

                                                   this website. information on how
                                                   tiffany & co. works with our supply
                                                   chain to minimize these impacts can
                                                   be found within the industry
                                                   leadership (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx) and
                                                   responsible mining
                                                   (/csr/responsiblesourcing/mining.aspx) sections of

                                                   this website.

en 13   habitats protected or restored.            please see the industry leadership
                                                   (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx) , preservation
                                                   (/csr/responsiblesourcing/preservation.aspx) and the

                                                   tiffany & co. foundation
                                                   (/csr/charitablegiving/foundation.aspx) sections of

                                                   this website for further information on
                                                   how tiffany & co. has worked on coral
                                                   conservation, hard-rock mining
                                                   reform and the preservation of areas of
                                                   high ecological and cultural value.


en 14   strategies, current actions, and future    responsible sourcing
        plans for managing impacts on              (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx)

        biodiversity.                              the tiffany & co. foundation
                                                   (/csr/charitablegiving/foundation.aspx)




en 15   number of iucn red list species and        not known
        national conservation list species with
        habitats in areas affected by
        operations, by level of extinction risk.


en 16   total direct and indirect greenhouse       building footprint
        gas emissions by weight.                   (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)

                                                   tiffany & co. response to the 2011
                                                   cdp investor questionnaire at
                                                   www.cdproject.net (https://www.cdproject.net)


en 17   other relevant indirect greenhouse gas     not disclosed
        emissions by weight.


en 18   initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas       building footprint
        emissions and reductions achieved.         (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)
                                                   tiffany & co. response to the 2011
                                                   cdp investor questionnaire at
                                                   www.cdproject.net (https://www.cdproject.net)


en 19   emissions of ozone-depleting               tiffany and co. does not have
        substances by weight.                      significant emissions of ozone-
                                                   depleting substances.



en 20   no, so, and other significant air          tiffany & co. does not have significant
        emissions by type and weight.              air emissions.


en 21   total water discharge by quality and       tiffany & co. started to collect water
        destination.                               use data in 2010 from our global
                                                   facilities. we do not report on water
                                                   discharged at this time.


en 22   total weight of waste by type and          tiffany & co. started to collect waste
        disposal method.                           data in 2010 from our global facilities.
                                                   we do not report on waste data at this
                                                   time.


en 23   total number and volume of                 tiffany & co. did not have any                  page 42 of 57

             significant spills.                       significant spills within this reporting
                                                       period.


en 24        weight of transported, imported,          not disclosed
             exported, or treated waste deemed
             hazardous under the terms of the basel
             convention annex i, ii, iii, and viii,
             and percentage of transported waste
             shipped internationally.


en 25        identity, size, protected status, and     not applicable
             biodiversity value of water bodies and
             related habitats significantly affected
             by the reporting organization’s
             discharges of water and runoff.


en 26        initiatives to mitigate environmental     tiffany & co. crafts jewelry that lasts
             impacts of products and services, and     generations. it is our belief that our
             extent of impact mitigation.              jewelry never reaches the end of its
                                                       useful life.


en 27        percentage of products sold and their     tiffany & co. does not have a take-
             packaging materials that are reclaimed    back program to recycle our products
             by category.                              or packaging. however, metals can be
                                                       recycled, diamonds and gemstones
                                                       can be reused and our packaging is
                                                       recyclable where facilities exist.


en 28        monetary value of significant fines and   tiffany & co. works to ensure
             total number of non-monetary              compliance with applicable
             sanctions for noncompliance with          environmental laws and regulations. in
             environmental laws and regulations.       2010, we received one citation for a
                                                       record-keeping violation at a waste
                                                       treatment operation within a u.s.
                                                       manufacturing facility. this item was
                                                       immediately remedied and controls
                                                       were put in place to ensure that this
                                                       would not occur again.


en 29        significant environmental impacts of      not disclosed
             transporting products and other goods
             and materials used for the
             organization’s operations, and
             transporting members of the
             workforce.


en 30        total environmental protection            tiffany & co. does not currently
             expenditures and investments by type.     disclose this indicator as the costs are
                                                       not material to our business.




performance indicators—labor practices and decent work

indic ator   gri des c ription                         res pons e


la1          total workforce by employment type,       world of tiffany (/csr/worldoftiffany/default.aspx)
             employment contract, and region, by
             age group.


la2          total number and rate of new              not disclosed
             employee hires and employee turnover
                                                                                                       page 43 of 57

       by age group, gender, and region.

la3    benefits provided to full-time            a description of tiffany & co. benefits
       employees that are not provided to        by region can be found on the tiffany
       temporary or part-time employees, by      careers (http://www.tiffanycareers.com/) website.
       significant locations of operation.


la4    percentage of employees covered by        not disclosed
       collective bargaining agreements.


la5    minimum notice period(s) regarding        not disclosed
       operational changes, including
       whether it is specified in collective
       agreements.


la6    percentage of total workforce             locations have health and safety
       represented in formal joint               committees that participate in
       management–worker health and safety       deployment of the location’s proactive
       committees that help monitor and          safety efforts.
       advise on occupational health and
       safety programs.                          each location has various task,
                                                 department, ad hoc, and other
                                                 committees to develop and implement
                                                 health and safety programs based on
                                                 the location’s strategic health and
                                                 safety plan. these leadership groups
                                                 include a cross-section of personnel
                                                 from the facility.



la7    rates of injury, occupational diseases,   our employees
       lost days, and absenteeism, and           (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx)

       number of work-related fatalities by
       region.


la8    education, training, counseling,          our employees
       prevention, and risk-control programs     (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx)

       in place to assist workforce members,
       their families, or community members
       regarding serious diseases.


la9    health and safety topics covered in       none
       formal agreements with trade unions.


la10   average hours of training per year per    not disclosed
       employee by gender, and by employee
       category.


la11   programs for skills management and        please see the our employees
       lifelong learning that support the        (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx) and

       continued employability of employees      beneficiation
       and assist them in managing career        (/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx)

       endings, by gender.                       sections of this website and tiffany
                                                 careers (http://www.tiffanycareers.com) for further
                                                 information on tiffany & co. training
                                                 and career development programs.



la12   percentage of employees receiving         employees receive annual performance
       regular performance and career            and career development reviews.
       development reviews.


la13   composition of governance bodies          information on the composition of the
                                                                                   page 44 of 57

             and breakdown of employees per              board of directors can be found on the
             category according to gender, age           tiffany & co. investor relations
             group, minority group membership,           (http://investor.tiffany.com/) website. information

             and other indicators of diversity.          on the diversity of our workforce can
                                                         be found within the our employees
                                                         (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx) section of
                                                         this website.

la14         ratio of basic salary of men to women       not disclosed
             by employee category, by significant
             locations of operation.


la15         return to work and retention rates          not disclosed
             after parental leave, by gender.




performance indicators—human rights

indic ator   gri des c ription                           res pons e

h r1         percentage and total number of              not disclosed
             significant investment agreements
             that include human rights clauses, or
             that have undergone human rights
             screening.


h r2         percentage of significant suppliers,        tiffany & co. suppliers are screened
             contractors, and other business             for human rights. for information on
             partners that have undergone                our social accountability program,
             screening on human rights and actions       please see the supplier responsibility
             taken.                                      (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)
                                                         section of this website.



h r3         total hours of employee training on         tiffany and co. officers and employees
             policies and procedures concerning          perform an annual review of the tiffany
             aspects of human rights that are            & co. business conduct policy. in 2010,
             relevant to operations, including the       english-speaking employees received
             percentage of employees trained.            an online training program on the
                                                         business conduct policy. this program
                                                         is being translated for use by the rest
                                                         of the company.


h r4         total number of incidents of                ethics, compliance and accountability
             discrimination and corrective actions       (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx)

             taken.


h r5         operations and significant suppliers        please see the governance
             identified in which the right to            (/csr/governance/default.aspx) section of this

             exercise freedom of association and         website and the investor relations
             collective bargaining may be at             (http://investor.tiffany.com/) website for tiffany

             significant risk, and actions taken to      & co. policies in this area. please see
             support these rights.                       the supplier responsibility
                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)
                                                         section of this website for an
                                                         understanding of how this is reviewed
                                                         within our supply chain.


h r6         operations and significant suppliers        tiffany & co. facilities abide by our
             identified as having significant risk for   corporate standards and are not at risk
             incidents of child labor, and measures      for incidents of child labor.
             taken to contribute to the elimination      information on the screening of our
             of all forms of forced or compulsory        supply chain for these risks can be
             child labor.                                found in the supplier responsibility
                                                                                              page 45 of 57

                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)

                                                         section of this website.

h r7         operations and significant suppliers        tiffany & co. facilities abide by our
             identified as having significant risk for   corporate standards and are not at risk
             incidents of forced or compulsory           for incidents of forced labor.
             labor, and measures to contribute to        information on the screening of our
             the elimination of all forms of forced      supply chain for these risks can be
             or compulsory labor.                        found in the supplier responsibility
                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)

                                                         section of this website.


h r8         percentage of security personnel            not disclosed
             trained in the organization’s policies
             or procedures concerning aspects of
             human rights that are relevant to
             operations.


h r9         total number of incidents of violations     information on tiffany & co. support
             involving rights of indigenous people       of indigenous rights and affected
             and actions taken.                          communities can be found within the
                                                         industry leadership
                                                         (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx) and

                                                         responsible sourcing
                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx) sections of

                                                         this website.


h r10        percentage and total number of              ethics, compliance and accountability
             operations that have been subject to        (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx)

             human rights reviews and/or impact          supplier responsibility
                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)
             assessments.


h r11        number of grievances related to             ethics, compliance and accountability
             human rights filed, addressed and           (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx)

             resolved through formal grievance
             mechanisms.




performance indicators—social

indic ator   gri des c ription                           res pons e

so1          percentage of operations with               beneficiation
             implemented local community                 (/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx)

             engagement, impact assessments, and         industry leadership
                                                         (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)
             development programs.
                                                         preservation
                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/preservation.aspx)




so2          percentage and total number of              governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
             business units analyzed for risks
             related to corruption.


so3          percentage of employees trained in          all employees annually review the
             organization’s anti-corruption policies     tiffany & co. business conduct policy.
             and procedures.                             for further information, please see the
                                                         ethics, compliance and accountability
                                                         (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx) section of this
                                                         website.


so4          actions taken in response to incidents      ethics, compliance and accountability
             of corruption.                              (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx)



                                                                                                                  page 46 of 57

so5          public policy positions and                 ethics, compliance and accountability
             participation in public policy              (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx)

             development and lobbying.


so6          total value of financial and in-kind        ethics, compliance and accountability
             contributions to political parties,         (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx)

             politicians, and related institutions by
             country.


so7          total number of legal actions for anti-     none
             competitive, anti-trust, and monopoly
             practices and their outcomes.


so8          monetary value of significant fines and     none
             total number of non-monetary
             sanctions for non-compliance with
             laws and regulations.


so9          operations with significant potential       a discussion of how tiffany & co.
             or actual negative impacts on local         interacts with the communities where
             communities.                                we operate can be found in:

                                                         building footprint
                                                         (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)

                                                         responsible sourcing
                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx)




so10         prevention and mitigation measures          a discussion of how tiffany & co.
             implemented in operations with              interacts with the communities where
             significant potential or actual negative    we operate can be found in:
             impacts on local communities.
                                                         building footprint
                                                         (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)
                                                         responsible sourcing
                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx)




performance indicators—product responsibility

indic ator   gri des c ription                           res pons e

pr1          life cycle stages in which health and       responsible sourcing
             safety impacts of products and              (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx)

             services are assessed for
             improvement, and percentage of
             significant products and services
             categories subject to such procedures.


pr2          total number of incidents of non-           tiffany & co. did not have incidents of
             compliance with regulations and             non-compliance with regulations and
             voluntary codes concerning health and       voluntary codes concerning the health
             safety impacts of products and              and safety impacts of products in
             services during their life cycle, by type   fiscal year 2010.
             of outcomes.


pr3          type of product and service                 tiffany & co. is not currently required
             information required by procedures,         to report on the sustainability impacts
             and percentage of significant products      of any products that we sell. further
             and services subject to such                information on the sourcing of our
             information requirements.                   products can be found within the
                                                         responsible sourcing
                                                         (/csr/responsiblesourcing/default.aspx) section of this

                                                         website.
                                                                                                          page 47 of 57

pr4   total number of incidents of non-         not tracked
      compliance with regulations and
      voluntary codes concerning product
      and service information and labeling,
      by type of outcomes.


pr5   practices related to customer             tiffany & co. performs regular
      satisfaction, including results of        engagement with our customers.
      surveys measuring customer                customers can communicate with
      satisfaction.                             tiffany & co. through our customer
                                                service website (/service/) , social media
                                                and in-person feedback at our stores.


pr6   programs for adherence to laws,           as a publicly traded company in the
      standards, and voluntary codes related    united states, we are subject to, and
      to marketing communications,              abide by, the rules of the securities
      including advertising, promotion, and     and exchange commission.
      sponsorship.


pr7   total number of incidents of non-         tiffany & co. did not have any
      compliance with regulations and           incidents of non-compliance for
      voluntary codes concerning marketing      marketing communications in fiscal
      communications, including                 year 2010.
      advertising, promotion, and
      sponsorship by type of outcomes.


pr9   monetary value of significant fines for   not tracked
      non-compliance with laws and
      regulations concerning the provision
      and use of products and services.




                                                                                      page 48 of 57

united nations global compact
communication on progress
in 2011, tiffany & co. joined the united nations global compact. the un global compact is a strategic
policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten principles
in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. as this report is based on 2010
data, tiffany & co. is not required to formally communicate on our progress. however, in support of our
commitment to the un global compact, the cross-reference table below shows how we are
communicating on progress for the ten principles. for further information on the un global compact,
please see http://www.unglobalcompact.org (http://www.unglobalcompact.org) .



 human rights

                                                                sec tion where we c ommunic ate on
                   global compac t princ iple
                                                                progres s

 1                 businesses should support and respect        governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
                   the protection of internationally            industry leadership
                   proclaimed human rights within their         (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)

                   sphere of influence.                         supplier responsibility
                                                                (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)

                                                                beneficiation
                                                                (/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx)

                                                                our employees
                                                                (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx)




 2                 make sure that they are not complicit        ethics, compliance and accountability
                   in human rights abuses.                      (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx)
                                                                beneficiation
                                                                (/csr/responsiblesourcing/beneficiation/default.aspx)

                                                                supplier responsibility
                                                                (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)




 labor standards

                                                                sec tion where we c ommunic ate on
                   global compac t princ iple
                                                                progres s

 3                 businesses should uphold the freedom         governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
                   of association and the effective             industry leadership
                   recognition of the right to collective       (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)

                   bargaining.                                  supplier responsibility
                                                                (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)

                                                                our employees
                                                                (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx)




 4                 the elimination of all forms of forced       governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
                   and compulsory labor.                        industry leadership
                                                                (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)

                                                                supplier responsibility
                                                                (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)

                                                                our employees
                                                                (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx)




 5                 the effective abolition of child labor.      governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
                                                                industry leadership
                                                                (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)

                                                                supplier responsibility
                                                                (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)

                                                                our employees
                                                                (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx)
                                                                                                                         page 49 of 57

6          the elimination of discrimination in     governance (/csr/governance/default.aspx)
           respect of employment and                industry leadership
           occupation.                              (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)
                                                    supplier responsibility
                                                    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)

                                                    our employees
                                                    (/csr/worldoftiffany/ouremployees.aspx)




environment

                                                    sec tion where we c ommunic ate on
            global compac t princ iple
                                                    progres s

7          businesses should support a              industry leadership
           precautionary approach to                (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)

           environmental challenges.                preservation
                                                    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/preservation.aspx)

                                                    building footprint
                                                    (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)




8          undertake initiatives to promote         industry leadership
           greater environmental responsibility.    (/csr/industryleadership/default.aspx)

                                                    preservation
                                                    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/preservation.aspx)

                                                    responsible mining
                                                    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/mining.aspx)
                                                    paper & packaging
                                                    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/paperpackaging.aspx)

                                                    building footprint
                                                    (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)

                                                    the tiffany & co. foundation
                                                    (/csr/charitablegiving/foundation.aspx)




9          encourage the development and            preservation
           diffusion of environmentally friendly    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/preservation.aspx)

           technologies.                            responsible mining
                                                    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/mining.aspx)

                                                    paper & packaging
                                                    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/paperpackaging.aspx)

                                                    building footprint
                                                    (/csr/worldoftiffany/buildingfootprint.aspx)




anti-corruption

                                                    sec tion where we c ommunic ate on
            global compac t princ iple
                                                    progres s

10         businesses should work against           ethics, compliance and accountability
           corruption in all its forms, including   (/csr/governance/ethics.aspx)

           extortion and bribery.                   supplier responsibility
                                                    (/csr/responsiblesourcing/supplierresponsibility.aspx)




                                                                                                             page 50 of 57

report of independent accountants
tiffany & co. has chosen to voluntarily report on our corporate responsibility performance and has
designed processes to collect and/or estimate, assess and report on this data. tiffany & co. management
is responsible for the completeness, accuracy and validity of the information contained in the 2010
corporate responsibility report (website). we have engaged pricewaterhousecoopers llp (pwc), our
independent registered public accounting firm, to review and report on certain performance metrics set
forth in this report. as we continuously improve our reporting processes, we plan to expand the scope of
metrics assured. a copy of their findings can be found within the report of independent accountants
linked below.

pricewaterhousecoopers llp's report of independent accountants
(http://www.tiffany.com/csr/aboutreport/report_of_independent_%20accountants.pdf)




                                                                                                 page 51 of 57

page 52 of 57

page 53 of 57

page 54 of 57

page 55 of 57

page 56 of 57

forward-looking statement
this tiffany & co. corporate responsibility website, including documents or reports incorporated herein
by reference, contains certain “forward-looking statements” concerning tiffany & co.’s goals, plans and
projections with respect to corporate responsibility, policy, procurement, business risks and
opportunities. in addition, tiffany & co. makes other forward-looking statements concerning corporate
responsibility objectives and expectations. one can identify these forward-looking statements by the
fact that they use words such as “believes,” “intends,” “plans” and “expects” and other words and terms of
similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future corporate responsibility
initiatives and objectives. one can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not
relate strictly to historical or current facts. such forward-looking statements are based on tiffany & co.’s
current plan and involve inherent uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes to
differ materially from the current or reported plan. the results of tiffany & co.’s ongoing business risk
analysis could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.

although tiffany & co. believes that we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance
can be given that any corporate responsibility goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can or
will be achieved and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. tiffany & co.
undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking information on this website, whether as a
result of new information, future events, changes in corporate responsibility objectives and expectations
or otherwise.




                                                                                                    page 57 of 57
