campus sustainability
   strategic plan




     photo credit: usm student, benjamin alcorn




   office of sustainability
         april 2017

                                                                                                          1




primary authors

aaron witham, m.s., assistant director for sustainable programs, office of sustainability
emily eschner, asset & surplus coordinator, office of sustainability
steve sweeney, resource recovery supervisor, office of sustainability


contributors

over 50 individuals from more than 12 campus departments contributed to this plan. we were not able to
record the names of all the individuals involved, but we wanted to give special thanks to the following
contributors:

glenn cummings, ph.d., president
jeannine diddle uzzi, ph.d., provost
nancy griffin, vice president for enrollment management & student affairs
susan mcwilliams, ph.d., assistant provost, core curriculum, community engagement & career
development
david mckenzie, ph.d., dean of students, campus life
sarah holmes, m.s., assistant dean of students and deputy title ix coordinator, campus life
joyce gibson, ph.d., dean, lewiston-auburn college
firooza pavri, ph.d., director of the muskie school of public service
student senate
robert sanford, ph.d., department chair & professor, environmental science & policy
environmental science & policy student club
danielle vayenas, m.s., director of communications and media relations, office of public affairs
daniel hartill, communications and media relations specialist, office of public affairs
bryan roche, social media and web content specialist, office of public affairs
katherine matzell, public relations/events promotion associate, office of public affairs
andrew king, director of admissions
meghan cadwallader, m.a. & m.f.a., director of educational partnerships
tadd stone, general manager, university of southern maine dining services
nancy martin, m.s., consultant, new england environmental finance center
adam thibodeau, director of engineering & architectural services, facilities management
robert adams, assistant director of maintenance & operations, facilities management
gary stephenson, former assistant director: residential life, facilities management
paul kuplinski, director of finance & administration, facilities management
lee forest, director of environmental services, facilities management
randy estes, facilities manager, lewiston-auburn college
freeman richardson, office of sustainability
josh wakefield, office of sustainability
benjamin alcorn, student eco-rep
stephanie broido, student eco-rep
nate cronauer, student eco-rep

                                       2




asia dibenedetti, student eco-rep
tyra howes, student eco-rep
abram marr, student eco-rep
miranda nemitz, student eco-rep
hope paquette-cohen, student eco-rep
noah perry, student eco-rep
ashleigh tatarcyk, student eco-rep

                           3




table of contents


executive summary         4

introduction              6

president’s nine goals    9

sustainability goals      10
   energy                 10
   material resources     16
   education & outreach   19

implementation            24

references                25

                                                                                                                 4




executive summary

the office of sustainability has been around for over 10 years and has not had a comprehensive strategic plan
until now, even though it has had several plans for specific sustainability initiatives.

the office plays a critical role on campus, fulfilling a core part of the university of southern maine’s mission to
“support sustainable development, environmental stewardship, and community involvement.” 1 this is a mission
that is becoming increasingly important to today’s college students. in the 2016 college hopes & worries survey
administered by princeton review, 61% of respondents indicated that having information about a school’s
environmental commitment would influence their decision of whether or not to apply to that institution.

over the past six months, full-time staff in the office of sustainability worked with various campus stakeholders
to develop an eight-year sustainability plan. the plan’s overarching objective is to achieve significant progress
toward the university’s national commitment of becoming a carbon neutral campus by the year 2040. this effort
serves as a stage for many corollary initiatives besides carbon reduction.

the plan is comprised of three major pillars, which are strategically designed to be mutually reinforcing: energy;
material resources; and education & outreach. all three pillars help advance carbon neutrality, while also
supporting numerous non-carbon objectives, such as resource reuse, cost savings, education and community
building.

a summary of the plan, highlighting the major, intermediate goals is provided in the table below:




1
    usm faculty senate (2008)

                                                                                                                   5




the office of sustainability is charged with helping the university achieve carbon neutrality, remove waste,
support sustainability education in and out of the classroom, raise money, and garner media attention, but has
little direct control over any of these activities, with the exception of waste management. therefore, the office
cannot achieve this plan alone. success will require broad participation from students, staff and faculty.

students, staff, and faculty who are interested in joining any of the activities outlined in this plan should contact
the office of sustainability here.

                                                                                                                            6




introduction

in 1983, the united nation’s formed a commission to address the need for more mindful economic development,
given development’s link to environmental degradation. this group, known as the brundtland commission,
coined the term “sustainable development” in 1987 to describe a more mindful approach to development. they
defined it as meeting “the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet
their own needs.” 2 the definition is now widely used as a definition for “sustainability” more broadly.

throughout the 1990’s, several environmental issues rose to the forefront of those concerned with sustainable
development, including peak oil, acid rain, and climate change. by the mid 2000’s, it was clear that climate
change, in particular, had captured the attention of the scientific community. higher education responded in 2006
through a movement led by 12 colleges and universities to create the american college and university
presidents’ climate commitment (acupcc) 3. the commitment challenged colleges and universities across the
country to become carbon neutral. the organization overseeing the acupcc, second nature, joined forces with
the nascent association for the advancement of sustainability in higher education 4 and began inspiring
institutions of higher education to sign the pledge and hire sustainability staff to oversee their institution’s efforts.

the university of southern maine was a charter signatory of the president’s climate commitment (now known
as the president’s carbon commitment). president pattenaude signed the public, national commitment in 2007,
and it is still upheld today by president cummings.

usm’s pledge is to reduce its net greenhouse gas emissions to zero by the year 2040 5. the plan calls for an
80% reduction of campus-affiliated greenhouse gas emissions associated with burning fossil fuels for heat,
electricity, and transportation, as well as methane emissions from waste disposal. the remaining 20% of
emissions are intended to be offset by university initiatives to reduce another entity’s greenhouse gas
emissions 6.

usm has made notable progress toward this goal, and by doing so has saved thousands of dollars per year.
since 2006, gross greenhouse gas emissions from heat were reduced by 23% and emissions from waste fell
20%, as the university surpassed a 54% waste diversion rate. in fact, usm’s waste diversion activities have
earned the school national recognition. increased efficiency of operations, key behavioral change initiatives, and
an expansion of surplus operations resulted in five awards from the us environmental protection agency in the
past three years. additionally, usm has received significant local media attention for educational events and
activities on a wide range of sustainability topics.



2
  the definition was published in the report of the world commission on environment and development: our common
future.
3
  for more on the background of the acupcc, see http://secondnature.org/who-we-are/background/
4
  the national, professional organization serving sustainability officers, professors, students and administrators interested
in sustainability
5
  in january of 2017, the mayor of portland, ethan strimling, pledged a separate, but related, goal of 100% renewable
energy by the year 2040.
6
  offsetting is not intended to be a permanent solution, rather a stopgap to buy more time to continue reducing university
emissions as new technologies become available.

                                                                                                                    7




despite the university’s success, progress on both energy and waste have begun to slow, and the office of
sustainability has not been able to sustain a high-level of student and faculty involvement in its initiatives. if usm
is to achieve its carbon neutrality goal by 2040, students, staff, and faculty from every corner of campus will have
to lend a hand.

engagement of an entire campus requires a strategic effort across capital planning, daily operations, and the
classroom. sustainability efforts in each of these sectors must support each other in deliberate ways instead of
being carried out in isolation, where they could potentially compete. major achievements resulting in lasting
change can only be accomplished when multiple people share a common vision and efforts to work toward that
vision are mutually beneficial. even sustainability goals as closely related as reducing energy use and reducing
material waste have to be deliberately tied together or else they risk competing with each other for the scarce
resources of time and human effort. some past initiatives at usm have suffered as a result of the perception of
waste and energy or waste and sustainability as being separate universes, when in fact the laws of
thermodynamics inextricably tie energy and material waste together as closely related sustainability challenges.

for example, every material resource requires energy to create from resource extraction, to production in a
factory, to delivery to the user. at every step in the production chain, fossil fuels are burned and greenhouse gas
emissions are emitted into the atmosphere. the energy used in the production chain for a given material object
can be considered the “embodied energy” of that product. therefore, when we throw away material waste, we
are throwing away energy. waste disposal also results in terrestrial and atmospheric pollution. the terrestrial
pollution is obvious to most people as trash piles up in landfills or gets dumped in the ocean. atmospheric
pollution comes from waste decomposition in the form of methane, a greenhouse gas. similarly, energy use
creates both terrestrial and atmospheric pollution. modern industrial processes that use energy result in a range
of greenhouse gas emissions including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hfcs 7 and others. use of fossil
fuel also affects land and water through activities such as deposition of acid rain and oil spills. a sustainable
society, and thus a sustainable campus, necessitates careful use of both energy and material resources in order
to minimize waste and pollution.

the plan presented here targets leverage points in capital planning, daily operations, and the classroom in a
coordinated way. it also marries the dual goals of energy and waste reductions by carefully allocating time to
both, and outlining education and outreach initiatives to strategically support both.

education and outreach are also critical elements of the plan because no matter how sustainable the usm
campus physically becomes, it cannot be considered truly sustainable unless its students are graduating with a
baseline knowledge of sustainability. basic sustainability literacy is not just a key professional development skill
for usm students entering any sector of today’s workforce, it is also a crucial skill for students’ ability to be
informed citizens and active community members.

the world usm graduates are now entering is experiencing unprecedented change. according to the world
meteorological organization 8, last year was the hottest year on record since humans began recording
temperature, and 16 out of the hottest 17 years have occurred during this century. many scientists have


7
    hydrofluorocarbons
8
    world meteorological organization (2017)

                                                                                                                     8




published papers in recent years suggesting that the earth is entering its 6th mass extinction event 9. when one
adds the scarcity of potable water across the planet 10, the overabundance of plastic waste in the north pacific
gyre 11, and growing economic inequality 12 to the list of challenges, the task of maintaining a healthy environment,
economy, and society appears to be a monumental one.

the science of sustainability, grounded in systems thinking 13, is perhaps the most effective pedagogical
framework higher education has for teaching about the interconnected nature of these issues and training
students the analytical skills necessary to face these challenges. as an institution with the motto “university of
everyone,” it’s critical to ensure that all usm students receive sufficient education preparing them for the
uncertainty of global change, as it will affect every industry and every citizen. moreover, every discipline has
something to offer to sustainability.

the education and outreach elements of the plan are not only designed to teach sustainability literacy to
students, staff, and faculty, but to exercise the section of the university’s mission dedicated to “community
involvement.” community involvement requires that the university serve as a responsible local and global citizen,
leading through innovation and research. as a partly coastal university within a community vulnerable to climate
change, usm has a special role to play in helping to mitigate climate change and its effects. usm is also uniquely
situated to support maine’s economic legacy through responsible forestry and local food production, two key
sectors of sustainability research.

development of the sustainability plan presented here took six months. office of sustainability full-time staff
began by brainstorming which key components of sustainability should be the basis for a plan for usm, utilizing
the 2040 carbon neutrality goal as its overarching framework. they then settled on energy, material resources
and education, and began mapping the relationships between these three pillars.

after settling on a conceptual model, many of the core concepts outlined in the 2012 climate action plan were
revised and used to flesh out the conceptual model. the team then began an iterative process of adding and
refining goals and activities to a spreadsheet based on the conceptual model. they shared the spreadsheet with
one stakeholder at a time to garner input, revised the goals and activities according to the input, added new
ideas, shared the spreadsheet with another stakeholder, and repeated the process until over 12 key groups were
consulted. therefore, the plan includes strategic leverage points and opportunities from multiple academic and
non-academic offices, as well as student groups. the plan was also deliberately aligned with president
cummings’ nine goals, as well as the key performance indicators (kpis) identified by the university of maine
system’s 2015 administrative review for facilities management.

the plan primarily focuses on activities for the next eight years. but, the office of sustainability will be refining
strategies within the plan on a weekly basis, and planning implementation strategies for the spring and fall


9
  williams et al. (2015); ceballos (2015)
10
   goldenberg (2014)
11
   milman (2016)
12
   piketty et al. (2016)
13
   “systems thinking” is a problem solving strategy that attempts to understand both macro and micro components of a
system and their linkages in order to develop holistic solutions. modern application of the concept was articulated in
senge (1990) and served as the foundation for the frequently cited “places to intervene in a system” by meadows (1997)

                                                                                                                                9




semesters during the winter and summer breaks, respectively. major revisions will be considered annually in
december, to correspond with carbon action planning reporting obligations for second nature.


president’s nine goals

the sustainability goals outlined in this plan were developed to strategically align with and support the
president’s nine goals. in fact, every goal, as well as every action item, listed in this document has been
aligned with one or more of the president’s goals 14. the president’s nine goals offer a critically important
vision for the future of the university of southern maine, and the office of sustainability is committed to doing
everything it can to help the university realize this vision.

the president’s nine goals are as follows:

     ●   usm will be known for academic excellence with real-world experiences as a core part of its academic
         program.
     ●   80% of our students will state that at least one individual (staff or faculty) knows them well, supports
         them, and believes in them (nsse, now below 60%).
     ●   72% of our students will remain at usm between each school year (ipeds, now 63%).
     ●   10% of our alumni will give to usm annually (now 2%).
     ●   the usm foundation will raise $50m in scholarships, infrastructure and investments for our students
         (now $17m).
     ●   usm headcount enrollment will reach 10,000 (ipeds, now 8,700).
     ●   usm will be designated as a 'great place to work'.
     ●   80% will recommend usm to others (post grad survey, now 61%).
     ●   usm will establish a sustainable financial model by attaining industry standards attributable to a
         financially healthy institution.




14
  a spreadsheet is available, upon request, that shows a list of all the applicable president’s goals affiliated with each of
the sustainability goals and action items. for the sake of space, that information is not included in this report.

                                                                                                                   10




sustainability goals

the strategic campus sustainability goals are listed below. the goals are divided into three pillars: energy;
material resources; and education and outreach. each goal is represented by bold text. listed below each goal
are specific actions, non-bold, that the office of sustainability plans to take to support the goal.

for each goal, and corresponding actions, the table lists a date, description, metrics, and partners. for goals,
the date represents a deadline. for actions, the date represents the time when the action will begin. the
description offers more detail about the goal or action. the metrics represent how progress toward the goal or
action will be measured. finally, potential partners are individuals, departments, groups, or organizations who
have either expressed interest in helping with the initiative or are suspected by sustainability office staff as
potentially being helpful for the initiative. the office of sustainability staff does not have the capacity to carry-
out all of these actions by itself; therefore, the partners represent a crucial resource for success.


                                                      energy

the energy goals and actions listed here are primarily focused on addressing energy use for campus heat,
campus electricity, and campus-affiliated transportation. as discussed earlier, energy and waste are intricately
related, but for the sake of organization, the energy implications of waste are primarily discussed in the
“material resources” section. usm’s energy initiatives will also require a significant education and outreach
effort, but those activities are primarily discussed in the “education and outreach” section.

11

12

13

14

15

                                                                                                              16




                                          material resources

the material resource goals listed below include strategies to address downstream waste issues, as well as
upstream waste issues. this dual approach recognizes the benefit of proactive strategies in addition to the
traditional reactive strategies. usm’s material resource initiatives will require significant education and
outreach efforts, and although some of those efforts are discussed here, many of them are discussed in the
“education and outreach” section.

17

18

                                                                                                                 19




                                                  education & outreach
the pillar of education and outreach is carefully designed to support the other two pillars: energy and material
resources. it is also designed to accomplish something greater than energy and material resources could on
their own. in the framework of donella meadows’ 15 “places to intervene in a system,” this education and
outreach pillar is aimed at changing the “goals” and the “paradigm” of the system 16. meadows argues that the
goals and paradigm are the two most transformative leverage points in a system.

many of the people who contributed to crafting this plan believe that building a strong community around
sustainability at usm will foster a paradigm shift in how the university and larger community think about
sustainability. sustainability can remain a value-added side project in higher education, or it can become the
norm of how universities operate. the goals and actions listed below are aimed at achieving the latter.




15
     meadows (1997)
16
     the “system” in this case is the university, as a functioning entity.

20

21

22

23

                                                                                                                       24




implementation

the university of southern maine is a fertile place for sustainability. the city of portland is one of the pioneer
cities to sign on to a 100% renewable energy goal 17. the university is situated in a state with a thriving local,
sustainable food network, which is now being aided by the university’s dining contractor, sodexo, through their
maine course program 18. maine also has a rich history of relying on natural resources, such as lumber and
fisheries, to power its economy. finally, the university is situated at a strategic location along the north atlantic
trade route and will become a key player in sustainability challenges arising from increased trade due to the
opening of the north west passage from climate change 19.


17
   the goal was pledged by mayor strimling in his state of the city address in january of 2017.
18
   maine course is a program designed to build the local, sustainable food network while supporting maine’s economy.
19
   mooney (2015)

                                                                                                                    25




beyond the university’s unique location, it is also comprised of a thriving group of students, faculty, and staff
who value sustainability and have been working in the field for years. students in nursing, tourism and
hospitality, business administration, engineering and other majors have taken on sustainability projects in
recent years alongside the usual suspects from environmental science and policy. staff in grounds, trades,
custodial, information technology, the library, and many other departments have participated in sustainability
projects ranging from green cleaning to composting to computer recycling. even president cummings has
earned sustainability stripes by writing his phd dissertation on campus sustainability and by serving as the
chair of the u.s. department of education’s green initiative when he was deputy assistant secretary.

usm is primed and ready to take big steps toward sustainability infrastructure and education on its three
campuses. the office of sustainability’s full-time staff and student eco-rep program has already begun
implementation of this strategic plan. students, staff, and faculty from across the university from any major or
department are encouraged to get involved in any way that is suitable to their professional goals and
schedules. interested people can reach out to the office of sustainability anytime to find out which project
might best suit their needs. the primary office is located in the facilities management building at 25 bedford
street and is open most of the time between 8 am-4:30 pm, monday through friday. a satellite office in
gorham at 19 college avenue (the energy lab) is staffed certain days a week on a rotating basis, and
sustainability employees can travel to the lewiston-auburn campus upon request. the sustainability website 20
offers the most up-to-date phone numbers and email addresses of office employees.

if we work together, we can make the university of southern maine a model campus for sustainability and
prepare our students to thrive in a changing world.


references

ceballos, g., ehrlich, p.r., barnosky, a.d., garcia, a., pringle, r.m., & palmer t.m. (2015). accelerated
modern human-induced species losses: entering the sixth mass extinction. science advances, 1(5). retrieved
from http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/1/5/e1400253

goldenberg, s. (2014, february). why global water shortages pose threat of terror and war. the guardian.
retrieved from
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2014/feb/09/global-water-shortages-threat-terror-war

maine course. (2017). about us. retrieved from https://mainecourse.sodexomyway.com/

meadows, d.h. (1997). places to intervene in a system. whole earth catalogue, winter. retrieved from
http://www.wholeearth.com/issue/2091/article/27/places.to.intervene.in.a.system

milman, o. (2016, october). ‘great pacific garbage patch’ far bigger than imagined, aerial survey shows. the
guardian. retrieved from
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2016/oct/04/great-pacific-garbage-patch-ocean-plastic-trash


20
     https://usm.maine.edu/sustainability

                                                                                                              26




mooney, c. (2015, september). the arctic is melting-- but shipping through the northwest passage is another
story. washington post. retrieved from
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/energy-environment/wp/2015/09/10/why-the-northwest-passage-
probably-wont-be-ready-for-shipping-any-time-soon/?utm_term=.7dfc2f356945

piketty, t., saez, e., & zucman, g. (2016). distributional national accounts: methods and estimates for the
united states. the national bureau of economic research. retrieved from
http://www.nber.org/papers/w22945

princeton review. (2016, october). guide to 361 green colleges: 2016 edition press release. guide to 361
green colleges: 2016 edition. retrieved from https://www.princetonreview.com/press/green-guide/press-
release

senge, p.m. (1990). the fifth discipline: the art and practice of the learning organization. united states:
doubleday.

the world commission on environment and development. (1987). report of the world commission on
environment and development: our common future. retrieved from http://www.un-documents.net/our-
common-future.pdf

university of southern maine faculty senate. (2008, october). mission statement. retrieved from
https://usm.maine.edu/about/mission-statement

williams, m., zalasiewicz, j., haff, pk., schwägerl, c., barnosky, a.d., & ellis, e.c. (2015). anthropocene
biosphere. the anthropocene review, 2(3). retrieved from
http://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/2053019615591020

world meteorological organization. (2017, january). wmo confirms 2016 as hottest year on record, about
1.1°c above pre-industrial era. retrieved from https://public.wmo.int/en/media/press-release/wmo-confirms-
2016-hottest-year-record-about-11%c2%b0c-above-pre-industrial-era
