       2016 corporate responsibility report




we
are
unum

02                         a note from
                           rick mckenney


03 in people’s lives
   making a difference



09 spirit
   a caring

         13                education
         17                health & wellness
         21                arts & culture
         23                our planet



25                         a collaborative
                           work environment
this report covers january 1st – december 31st, 2016. unless otherwise stated, data included in the report represents
all operations in the u.s., u.k. and ireland. access this report at unumgroup.com/responsibility.

at unum, we have the privilege of making a difference every day.
nearly 35 million working people and their families rely on us to
provide financial security when unexpected illness or injury occurs.
more than 180,000 employers partner with us to help better manage
their workforces. we’re in a meaningful business that helps people
when they need it most.
our social responsibility is just as important to us. we advocate for
public policies that help employees build a robust financial safety
net. we’re invested in helping our communities become better places
to live, work and learn. we’re committed to minimizing our impact
on the environment.
as unum’s ceo, i see this commitment to making a difference in action every day among our nearly 10,000 employees.
in the pages of this corporate responsibility report, you’ll get a glimpse of what i see — employees from across the
company working together to keep our promises to policyholders, find new ways to bring financial protection benefits
to the workplace, and enrich our communities.

it truly is a privilege to be in a business that makes a real difference in our society. it’s also a responsibility that we
embrace every day.


                                    richard (rick) mckenney
                                    president and ceo
                                    unum

making
differe
people’

ga
ence in
 ’s lives
     what we do for our customers
     matters, and that inspires us.

being there
is our
business
we help millions of people gain access to disability, life, accident and critical illness
benefits through the workplace — benefits that help protect lives, and livelihoods.
we know individuals and families depend on us to be there when they need us most.
and businesses of every size look to us for the benefits that attract talent, offer
comprehensive solutions, and support the people who keep them growing strong.
whether our customers need enrollment services, claims support, absence management or vocational rehabilitation
services, we’re committed to better benefits at work for our employer clients and their employees. and while we’re a
company with 170 years of history, we’re also finding new ways to offer the coverages we know employees want and
need. in 2016, through the acquisition of starmount life, we launched unum dental and vision benefits.
our products and services are available through our market-leading businesses, each with a similar focus: to make sure
more people have access to better benefits at work.




unum us
a market leader in group and individual disability
benefits in the u.s., and one of the largest providers
of group life and voluntary workplace benefits.
unum uk
the leading provider of group income protection
and critical illness coverage in the u.k., as well as
a provider of life and dental benefits.




one of the leading providers of voluntary worksite
benefits, including disability, life, accident, critical illness,
hospitalization, and cancer coverage in the u.s.




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

we’re there when it matters
our customers count on us for the financial protection they need should illness or injury
occur — closing the gap between personal savings and public assistance, and helping
maintain quality of life.
that’s why we work hard to make sure our benefits and services are robust enough to adjust to the fast-changing needs
of our customers, and our world. from financial protection to helping employees return to work, we’re committed to
being there every step of the way.




$6.9 billion
benefits paid
              327,000                                                 people returned to work



35 million                                                                  workers and
                                                                            families protected

we’re building a bigger safety net
every dollar employers spend offering benefits like ours significantly reduces the need
for government-funded support and the burden on taxpayers. better yet, studies show
employers who offer benefits packages that include disability, critical illness, life, dental
and vision insurance have employees who are more committed and engaged.
today, many employees in the u.s. and u.k. lack access to financial protection benefits. to help change that, we engage
regularly with policymakers and public and private institutions in both countries to find ways to help more people gain
access to this critical financial protection. in 2016, these efforts included continuing to work with the u.s. congressional
income protection benefits caucus and the u.s. bipartisan policy center. in addition, our ceo rick mckenney participated in
the bipartisan policy center’s summit on disability and retirement security – new research & next steps, an exploration of
new research from the employee benefits research institute that demonstrates people with private disability insurance also
tend to have less of a shortfall in retirement savings.

responsibility and transparency go hand in hand
upholding the highest standards of financial responsibility and disclosure is part of our dna. our annual reports, quarterly
filings and other financial disclosures are publicly available on our website. in 2016, we ranked 2nd on the zicklin index
from the center for political disclosure & accountability.




                                                                     making a difference in people’s lives
                                                                                                                         6

coverage
when it
counts
as a customer data specialist
at our columbia, s.c.,
headquarters, latoya taylor
often urged customers to use
the wellness reimbursement
benefit in their colonial life cancer
policy, designed to help cover the
cost of early detection through
mammograms and other screenings.
in fact, the preventive screening
coverage was one of the main
reasons latoya chose to add the
same policy to her own benefits
as a colonial life employee.




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

in june 2013 at the age of 29, latoya was diagnosed with a rare and aggressive form of breast cancer known as
metaplastic carcinoma. over the next two years, her treatment included 16 rounds of chemotherapy, 39 radiation
treatments, and seven surgeries.

“never in a million years did i think i would use the policy for anything other than preventive
 screening,” latoya says. “but without the colonial life cancer plan, there is no question i would
 have lost my home, and i would not have been able to afford my health insurance co-pays,
 deductibles and medication.
“policies like our cancer plan are valuable because they really do make a big difference during a critical time,” latoya says.
“cancer doesn’t discriminate. it doesn’t care about how old you are, your race, your status, or anything else.”
throughout her own journey, latoya says her co-workers reminded her of the reason colonial life is a special
place: the people.
                                          able to work only after chemotherapy treatments and between surgeries,
                                               “i was overwhelmed by the outpouring of love and support given to me
                                                            and my family,” says latoya. “i’ve known people who have
                                                               been through cancer treatment, but to actually go through
                                                                  it yourself is harder than anything i imagined. the
                                                                    physical and emotional toll can be unbearable
                                                                     at times.”
                                                                     today, four years after her diagnosis, latoya has every
                                                                      reason to celebrate: in 2015 she welcomed her son,
                                                                       cayden, into the world.




                                                                                        latoya taylor and son, cayden
                                                                                        customer data specialist
                                                                                        columbia, s.c.




                                                                      making a difference in people’s lives
                                                                                                                          8

a
cari

ing
  we care about our communities, and
  about each other. giving back to the
  places we live and work is central to
  who we are.

we believe in
giving back
our commitment to being there for people when they need us most is about more than
just business. in the communities where we live and work, we dedicate significant
resources to organizations and initiatives focused on our three pillars of giving: education,
health and wellness, and arts and culture.
helping build stronger communities is at the core of our culture. we know great futures begin with a great education —
and great educational opportunities are the foundation of strong communities. that’s why supporting students, teachers
and schools in our communities is our single biggest area of giving.
our commitment to health and wellness extends beyond our own employees to all the communities we call home.
knowing a healthy community is a strong community, we look for opportunities to support organizations and programs
that share our focus on improving health for all.
we also know access to arts and culture sparks creativity, fires imaginations, enriches diversity and brings communities
to life. supporting the arts in our home communities has long been part of the way we give back, especially when arts
and education intersect.




$12.4 million
total corporate and employee contributions to charitable causes, including:




$7.2 million
corporate contributions                                              87,000
to charitable causes,
including $1.6 million                                               employee
in matching gifts                                                    volunteer hours


we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

                  12




a caring spirit

we’re
investing in
great futures
ensuring brighter futures for our communities through stronger schools and stronger
students is a passion shared by our employees. every year we dedicate a significant
portion of charitable resources to education initiatives, including long-term partnerships
with many organizations we have helped lead, launch or guide. along the way, every
contribution shares the same vision: helping students gain access to opportunities,
and helping talented educators engage students in innovative and creative approaches
to learning.




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

empowering educators


$50o,000 in strong schools                        65+ principals
grants awarded to chattanooga                     have completed the
teachers for classroom                            principal leadership academy
innovation and stem projects                      in chattanooga

$250,000 invested in the maine education leaders experience,
helping more than 125 educators complete the program


  educational organizations and
  programs supported in 2016
  basingstoke consortium (u.k.)
  boys & girls clubs (chattanooga, columbia,
  portland, worcester)
  educate maine (portland)
  epworth children’s home (columbia)
  girls inc. (chattanooga & worcester)
  intouniversity (u.k.)
  jmg (portland)
  lift360 (portland)
  maine new leadership
  maine youth leadership
  margaret chase smith policy center (portland)
  mitchell institute (portland)
  portland mentoring alliance
  satro (u.k.)
  south carolina independent colleges
  & universities
  south high community school (worcester)
  stem leadership fellows through pef
  tennessee aquarium safety net
  & field trip program (chattanooga)
  urban league (chattanooga & columbia)
                                                                               14




                                                             a caring spirit

lessons that
empower
leaders
a catalytic leadership experience. that’s how dr. baron davis,
superintendent-elect for richland county school district two
in south carolina, refers to the midlands educator leadership
experience, a new program we launched in 2016 for education
professionals in the columbia, s.c., area.




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

inspired by other education programs unum has launched and led, the midlands educator leadership experience offers
education professionals, including leaders and administrators, the opportunity to enhance critical professional skills.
launched by colonial life in june 2016 in partnership with the midlands education and business alliance, the pilot
program focused on connecting participants with key facets of the columbia community, including
business and entrepreneurship, government and higher education. the agenda
focused on examples of leadership across the business sector including
maintaining a competitive advantage in the marketplace, how to
influence legislation, and on helping educators understand economic
trends that influence the workforce in south carolina.

“making connections and bridging the gap between
 our local education system and businesses in
 our community are just some of the ways the
 program has made a big impact,” says baron.
“the opportunity to visit other businesses to see
 firsthand how impactful culture and values can be in
 sustaining an organization gave us powerful insight
 into the way culture and values can sustain and
 grow our school system, too.”
as the midlands educator leadership experience participants
prepare to graduate from the program, plans are already moving
ahead to engage more educators from eight school districts within
three counties — and possibly from across the state.
“there are a lot of ways to think about education beyond the
 construct of a school, and the relationships and connections
 formed through this program are already helping
 catalyze new ideas and more innovative
 approaches to helping today’s students
 become tomorrow’s community
 leaders,” baron says. “it’s giving
 us a bigger canvas on which
 to write our narrative as
 a school district.”




dr. baron davis
superintendent-elect,
richland county school
district two
columbia, s.c.
                                                                                                                          16

we support
healthier
communities
we take pride in providing our employees and our customers the support they need
to enjoy healthy, active lifestyles. in step with that commitment, we extend the same
support to our home communities and beyond by contributing to a variety of health and
wellness initiatives.

helping cancer patients in the workplace
since 2012, unum u.k. has supported maggie’s, a u.k. cancer charity   £97,000
focused on helping people recently diagnosed with cancer or who
                                                                      raised for
                                                                      maggie’s
are undergoing treatment. u.k. employees helped maggie’s develop
a variety of tools designed to help employers support employees



                                                                      in 2016
with cancer. in 2016, we continued to help maggie’s lead workshops
to help employers learn how to better support their own employees
undergoing cancer treatment and returning to work.




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

72 employees
helped children
with disabilities
enjoy the
chattanooga
zoo’s annual
dreamnight


500+
people have attended
unum-sponsored
cancer in the workplace
workshops via maggie’s



  health and wellness
  programs supported
  in 2016
  cardiac risk in the young (u.k.)
  edventure (columbia)
  georgia canines for independence
  (chattanooga)
  girls on the run (columbia)
  healthy learners (columbia)
  massachusetts women’s initiative
  siskin hospital for rehabilitation
  (chattanooga)
  the albert kennedy trust (u.k.)
  transform housing and support
  (u.k.)
                                                         18




                                       a caring spirit

teamwork
that creates
community




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

what do you need? that’s the first question phil geelhoed,
president and ceo of special olympics maine heard when the
organization met with unum to explore ways to team up.
“what started as a simple grant has become a powerful and exciting partnership,” says phil of the multi-year
 relationship that has made the presence of unum employees a “natural thing” at many special olympics maine
 events — including the state’s annual summer games and an annual bocce tournament for special olympics hosted
 by unum employees.
unum employees began supporting the special olympics maine summer games in 2015, and the involvement rapidly
grew from a few hours of volunteer support to a year-round process of helping lead, manage and continually improve
the experience for all athletes.

                             “we’re a staff of five employees serving 4,300 athletes and managing
                                  events throughout our state. without the support of good friends and
                                   partners we couldn’t do what we need to do,” says phil. “even so,
                                    our relationship with unum has a strength all its own. far beyond
                                    financial support, employees from unum commit hundreds of hours
                                     to rolling up their sleeves to help plan events, serve as officials
                                      and, most important, support the athletes themselves.”
                                         in addition to the nearly 40 employees who dedicate a weekend each year to
                                                  helping manage events for the summer games, special olympics now
                                                      has more than 2,000 employees to call on for volunteer support
                                                         throughout the year. even better, phil says, are the friendships
                                                           formed between employees and athletes, who team up on
                                                             other community service projects like a recent initiative to
                                                              create supply bags for a portland homeless shelter.
                                                              “we often talk about the special olympics family,” says
                                                               phil. “unum has become a big part of our special
                                                                olympics maine family.”




                                                                        unum employees kelly norton,
                                                                        kayle beal, abby neill, andrew peck
                                                                        and doug tomer team up with
                                                                        special olympics athletes for an
                                                                        annual bocce tournament.
                                                                                                                      20




                                                                                                 a caring spirit

we believe the
arts are for
everyone
arts and culture are essential to every community — and exposure to art, music and
theater is vital to a great education. that’s why funding and supporting the arts is
a central part of our annual giving.




500+ studio tours and arts activities
                        chattanooga students participated in

through our partnership with the
hunter museum of american art

since 2008,
225,000 students
have enjoyed unique
access to music
through our ensembles
in schools partnership
with the chattanooga
symphony & opera.




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

experiences that inspire
carrying out the hanover theatre’s mission “to foster a love and
appreciation for the performing arts in audiences of today and
tomorrow,” takes a lot of work, and a lot of passion. when it
comes to delivering arts education to as many students as possible,
including those in previously underserved parts of the community,
it also takes teamwork.
“that’s where unum comes in,” says nel lazour, the theater’s director of development. “unum has been a tremendous
 supporter over the years, beginning with leadership support for our first capital campaign in 2008, a campaign that
 allowed us to restore and re-open our historic 2,300-seat venue.”
today, that support has blossomed into an ongoing partnership between unum and the hanover theatre focused on
helping the theater realize its vision of making performance arts available to more youth in the worcester community.
throughout the year, the theater offers initiatives like its student critic program, a series of free writing workshops for
high school students taught by a professional theater critic, and the adopt-a-school program with worcester’s south
high community school. the adopt-a-school program introduces high school students to live theater by integrating a
broadway production into the school’s curriculum and providing tickets for the entire student body (nearly 1,300 students
from 70 different countries) to attend a performance.

“our adopt-a-school program is our most impactful community initiative,” says nel. “2016 marked
                                   the fourth year for the program and unum has partnered
                                       with us every step of the way. it’s exciting to know that
                                          an entire class of graduating high school students has
                                           experienced four years of learning and enrichment
                                                      through the performing arts as a result
                                                          of this program. in 2017,we’re
                                                            expanding to a second school
                                                             and adding an additional 1,000
                                                              students to the program.”
                                                                            “unum’s partnership has also been
                                                                             instrumental in our ability to grow and
                                                                            serve more than 197,000 patrons each year,
                                                                            including more than 15,000 students,” nel
                                                                            says. “arts may be the heart of a community,
                                                                             but keeping the arts alive, and making them
                                                                              accessible to everyone, takes a community.”




                                                                                              photo: norm eggert photography
                                                                                                                               22




                                                                                                 a caring spirit

we’re greening
the way we work
improving quality of life for the people and communities we serve includes improving
the quality of the world around us. every year, members of our volunteer employee
green team roll up their sleeves to help green our world — and our workplaces — through
on-campus projects and off-campus volunteering. in 2016, to help more employees get
engaged in on-campus green initiatives, we introduced a new employee community site
to share information, events and opportunities, plus promote environmentally smart
ways of living and working.
because our facilities account for our biggest environmental impacts, we also continued working to improve our
buildings’ efficiencies. in 2016, much of our effort was focused on our dorking campus in the u.k., where our facilities
include a historic building (an even bigger challenge for environmental efficiency). thanks to a multi-phase efficiency
improvement project launched in 2015, we’ve already installed updated lighting, heating and ventilation systems in
the building’s busiest areas — generating a savings of 40% for the first phase alone.




                                                                                  eco-friendly commuting
                                                                                  convenient public transit stops, electric
                                                                                  car charging stations and bike lock-up
                                                                                  areas at our main campuses make it
                                                                                  easier for employees to get to work on
                                                                                  foot, by bike or through ride-sharing
                                                                                  and public transit. and through our
                                                                                  new green community site, employees
                                                                                  can quickly connect with local partners
                                                                                  like greentrips chattanooga, nuride
                                                                                  portland and massrides (worcester) to
                                                                                  set up or find ridesharing opportunities.
                                                                                  plus, employees who log running,
                                                                                  walking or bike commutes are eligible
                                                                                  to win monthly incentives. in 2016, we
                                                                                  were proud to receive an eco award
                                                                                  from the massachusetts department
                                                                                  of transportation for offering so many
                                                                                  commuter options for our employees.




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

a- 23%reduction
our score
on the 2016
                                                                 energy use
                                                                 since 2010
carbon
disclosure

                        12.5%
                                                           energy consumed in our u.s.
index                                                      operations was renewable
                                                           energy purchased throughout
                                                           u.s. epa green power partnership



12%
                        31%
                                               greenhouse gas reduction
water                                          since 2010 (the equivalent of
                                               removing 1,980 cars from the road)
reduction
since 2010



two
energy star
                        119 employees across
                        four campuses participate
                        on the unum green team                       140
                                                                     overall
certified buildings

                        1.3 million                                   place on
                        pounds of paper                               newsweek’s
two
leed gold recycled green
                   rankings
certified facilities    (enough to save 11,903 trees)


the paper used in this report is elemental chlorine free and contains 10%
post-consumer waste. a limited number of printed reports are available.
access this report at unumgroup.com/responsibility.
                                                                                              24




                                                                            a caring spirit

a collab
work
environm

borative
mentwe value the diversity of perspectives
    and experiences that make us a
    stronger company.

we’re creating
a world-class
workplace
a vibrant employment culture that attracts great talent and values every voice doesn’t
happen by accident. at unum, we’re dedicated to building and nurturing a dynamic
and welcoming workplace — one that embraces differences, fosters
collaboration, and encourages employees to bring their best ideas
to work every day.
our inclusive culture makes us stronger and smarter, and it also means we better reflect
and understand the businesses we serve. our customers who expect diversity and inclusion
in their partners know we share common values.
as a workforce of 10,000 people in locations across the u.s., u.k., and ireland, we celebrate
diversity and value the contributions of every member of our team. we discourage
bureaucracy, and stay focused on delivering great customer experiences with every
interaction. and everyone at unum knows we are all individually responsible for
growing our careers and learning from our experiences.
but that doesn’t mean employees are on their own. far from it. the personal
and professional development of our people is a front-and-center element of
our business every day. resources range from professional development and
learning opportunities to programs that support the financial, emotional, and
physical well-being of our colleagues.
when it comes to reaching our potential as a business, we know employees
who are reaching their own fullest potential are the key to success.




20% by 2020
we were named a 2016 women on boards
winning ‘w’ company for having 20% or
more of our board seats held by women.




we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

appreciation for differences
we’ve worked hard to create a workplace that values diversity and inclusion, but we can
always do more to celebrate the differences that make us even stronger.
in 2016, we took a good look at the diversity of our company today, and challenged ourselves to do more. using third-
party data assessment and research, we benchmarked our progress against other top organizations, then built our own
roadmap toward even greater diversity and inclusion. every member of our executive, senior leadership and middle
management teams also completed unconscious bias training, a process that will expand to more of our organization
in 2017 and beyond, and we introduced an online diversity & inclusion toolkit to help all employees better consider
diversity and inclusion in their everyday work.
greater inclusion also depends on ensuring access to critical skills development, training and advancement opportunities
for all employees. that’s why we also launched several pilot programs in the u.s. and the u.k. to better empower a
diverse group of high potential men and women across our organization with the support, skills and exposure they
need to become leaders of our company. in 2016, nearly 40 women and men participated in our new u.k. women
in leadership, u.s. accelerator and u.s. sponsorship programs.


accommodating everyone
              providing our customers with long term disability benefits and rehabilitation and return-to-work programs
                 is a big part of what we do. it’s a big part of the support we provide our people, too. physical
                    adaptations to offices, equipment and schedules and coaching for people returning to work after
                     illness or injury are all part of the support available to our employees should they need it.




                                42% is diverse
                                     (either women or an ethnic minority)
                                                                         of unum’s board




                                           1,000
                                                                                        employees completed
                                                                                        unconscious
                                                                                        bias training
                                                                                                                        28




                                                                     a collaborative work environment

we empower
each other
we want a workplace culture that can accommodate the way we work today — and keep
pace with us as our business evolves. to help with that evolution, in 2016 we adopted
a new perspective on our workplace by evaluating it through the lens of the employee
lifecycle, a view that helps us better support and engage employees at every career stage
— from new recruit to senior leader. along the way, we’re making sure all employees have
the chance to fuel their careers with professional development, on-the-job training, skills
seminars and continuing education programs.




500+
managers
                               ~50 women
completed
our people                     in leadership
manager
effectiveness
                               program participants
training

273,106                        150 employees
                               participate in employee resource groups
training hours
completed by                   dedicated to making our company
employees                      an even better place to work

$548,785 tuition assistance
provided to employees for continuing
education at accredited universities
we are unum | 2016 corporate responsibility report

we support                  physical well-being                     emotional well-being
health and                  • 88% of u.s. employees enrolled       • employee assistance program
well-being                    in our health plan                    • paid time off
                            • 50% of employees in the u.k. and     • 700+ employees enjoy flexible
we take pride in helping      ireland enrolled in supplemental        teleworking arrangements
individuals and families      health plans
                                                                    • 77 u.k. employees trained
enjoy the peace of mind     • 95% of u.s. employees took             in mental health first aid
that comes with access to     advantage of incentives to
world-class benefits and      complete health checks and

services, and we think
                              biometric screenings                  financial well-being
                            • 4 health resource centers (one       • financial planning services
it’s important that our
                              at each of our primary facilities)
employees enjoy the same                                            • life insurance
                            • free flu shots for all employees
quality of protection                                               • company-funded
                            • 4 on site fitness centers (one at       retirement benefits
and support. knowing
                              each of our primary facilities)
personal happiness and                                              • retirement plan auto-enrollment
                            • smoking cessation programs             and dollar-for-dollar match
professional engagement
                            • diabetes management programs         • immediate vesting for all
depend on more
                            • nutrition workshops and counseling     retirement plans
than financial well-
                                                                    • 7,800 u.s. employees (91%)
being alone, we offer       • tobacco-free campuses
                                                                      contribute to our 401(k) plan and
comprehensive benefits                                                92% of new hires enroll
designed to support the
                                                                    • 98% of u.k. employees have a
way each of us lives                                                  defined contribution plan account
and works.                                                          • identity theft recovery




                                                                                                          30




                                                          a collaborative work environment

corporate offices
in the u.s.
1 fountain square
chattanooga, tn 37402
united states
423-294-1011
1200 colonial life boulevard
columbia, sc 29210
united states
803-798-7000
2211 congress street
portland, me 04122
united states
207-575-2211
1 mercantile street
worcester, ma 01608
united states
774-437-4441

in the u.k.
milton court
dorking, surrey rh4 3lz
united kingdom
+011 44-1306 887766

in ireland
2nd floor merchant house
shamrock plaza
tullow street, ire1a
carlow
ireland




                               unum group
                               1 fountain square
                               chattanooga, tn 37402

                               www.unum.com

                               © 2017 unum group. all rights reserved. unum is a registered trademark and marketing brand of unum group
                               and its insuring subsidiaries.
                               nt-1114 (may 2017)
