annual report | us sif and us sif foundation




                                     2012

  about us sif
  us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment is the us membership association for
  professionals, firms, institutions and organizations engaged in sustainable and responsible investing (sri).
  us sif and its members advance investment practices that consider environmental, social and corporate
  governance criteria to generate long-term competitive financial returns and positive societal impact.

  our vision is a world in which investment capital helps build a sustainable and equitable economy.

  us sif’s members include investment management and advisory firms, mutual fund companies, research firms,
  financial planners and advisors, broker-dealers, banks, credit unions, community development organizations,
  non-profit associations, and pension funds, foundations and other asset owners. us sif is a 501(c)(6)
  organization.

  us sif foundation is a 501(c)(3) organization. the objective and purpose of the foundation is to support the
  activities and purpose of us sif, its sole member, by assuming the responsibilities for, and the management of,
  certain educational, research and programmatic activities.



  about this report
  we have been producing annual reports detailing our financial performance and integrating environmental,
  social and governance factors for more than a decade.

  this annual report covers the 2012 calendar year, which also correlates to the fiscal year for us sif and the
  us sif foundation. for the purposes of the global reporting initiative (gri), this report is a self-declared a-level
  gri report completed in accordance with the gri’s third generation g3 guidelines and gri’s sector supplement
  for non-governmental organizations. a complete gri index appears at the end of this report.

  we would like to hear what you think about this report. please direct comments and questions to alya kayal,
  director of policy and programs, at akayal@ussif.org or megan smith, public affairs and events assistant, at
  msmith@ussif.org.



  contact us
  us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment and the us sif foundation
  910 17th street nw, suite 1000
  washington, dc 20006
  p +1-202-872-5361
  f +1-202-775-8686
  website: www.ussif.org
  twitter: www.twitter.com/followussif
  facebook: www.facebook.com/followussif




ii 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

table of contents
message from the ceo and chair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
governance structure & accountability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
2010–2012 strategic plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8

our work
research & resources
  us sif ltd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
    us sif foundation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
events & media
    us sif ltd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
    us sif foundation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
public policy & capitol hill day
    us sif ltd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
working groups
    us sif ltd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
    us sif foundation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
professional education
    us sif foundation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

our commitment to sustainability
policies & practices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

financials
2012 audited financials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24

global reporting initiative
gri index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
gri certification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56




                                                                  2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 1

    message from the ceo and chair
                                                                                  lisa woll        michael lent




  this annual report provides a comprehensive account of the accomplishments of us sif and
  us sif foundation in 2012. the report details our financial performance as well as our member services
  and initiatives, including research, policy and programmatic work.

  in financial terms, us sif inc. and us sif foundation had a strong year. on a consolidated basis, although
  membership dues remained the primary source of revenue ($708,520), important additional sources in 2012
  were event revenue ($354,072) and sponsorships for programs others than events ($143,136). in addition,
  us sif foundation was able to release $333,495 in net assets from grants received in 2011 for work in 2012.
  us sif and us sif foundation saw unrestricted net assets grow from $160,923 at the start of the year to
  $305,017 at the close.

  membership dues have traditionally been the primary source of revenues, a trend which continued in 2012.
  us sif continued to focus on expanding its membership ranks and recruited 40 new members in 2012.

  in may, us sif held its second annual conference, sustainable investing in action, in washington, dc.
  the conference served as an educational and networking opportunity for members and aimed to provide
  high quality programming for both members and non-members. the event drew 310 attendees and featured
  dynamic presentations from barbara bennett (us epa), kim jeffrey (nestle waters), jonathan rose (jonathan
  rose companies) and many others. the member-only program featured a conversation with jonathan
  greenblatt, special assistant to the president and director of the white house office of social innovation
  and civic participation.

  in 2012, us sif foundation released two reports. options & innovations in community investing: a report
  from the field was published in june and was intended as a practical guide for a wide array of investors and
  investment professionals. in november, us sif foundation published the ninth edition of its flagship report—
  the 2012 report on sustainable and responsible investing trends in the united states. according to the
  report, sri assets grew by 22 percent from year-end 2009 to year-end 2011 to a total $3.74 trillion.

  us sif was also actively involved in advancing key public policy priorities. we organized a capitol hill day and
  sec meetings for members as part of our annual conference, and encouraged the sec to promulgate rules
  required by the dodd-frank wall street financial reform and consumer protection act. us sif and its members
  continued to encourage the sec to require publicly traded companies to report on material environmental, social
  and governance issues, with a particular priority on political contributions. to address climate change issues,
  us sif submitted a formal comment in support of the us environmental protection agency’s proposed carbon
  pollution standard for new nuclear power plants. additionally, us sif continued to seek the inclusion of an sri
  option for the federal employees thrift savings plan.

  throughout the year, us sif continued to grow its media presence with a considerable expansion of social
  media. information on sustainable and responsible investing posted on our twitter, facebook and linkedin
  accounts enables members to champion their affiliation with us sif. in addition, us sif’s online newsletters
  allow members to keep current on research, policy issues, and new developments at us sif. the staff at
  us sif also engaged numerous media outlets throughout the year to raise awareness of us sif and
  sustainable investing.




2 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif continued to support its members’ individual interests through the community investing working group,
indigenous peoples working group, international working group and the sustainable investment research
analyst network.

finally, as in the past several years, this annual report is an integrated report, incorporating sustainability and
financial metrics based on the global reporting initiative (gri) g3 guidelines. us sif and us sif foundation’s
2012, 2011 and 2010 reports have received an a level application check by gri. more information about gri
and the application levels is available at www.globalreporting.org. this is part of our commitment to broad-based
sustainability in the financial markets and within our organizations.

we thank our members for their support during 2012. stay tuned for an outstanding year in 2013.

sincerely,

			



lisa n. woll, ceo		                               michael lent, board chair




                                                     2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 3

    governance structure & accountability

  the us sif and us sif foundation boards of directors manage and control the affairs and property of the
  organizations, including setting organizational policies, adopting the annual budget, and hiring, evaluating,
  supervising and, where necessary, terminating the chief executive officer. the boards of the two organizations
  are identical, except that that each has a different chair. in 2012, the chair of us sif was michael lent; the
  chair of us sif foundation was frank altman. the governance of us sif is described below.

  board size and elections: us sif’s board size is limited to 17 directors, of which 12 are elected at-large by
  and from the membership by a majority of members. in addition, the board may appoint up to four directors from
  among the membership to provide diversity relative to gender, race and ethnicity, expertise, industry network,
  geographical representation, or for any other purpose. if a director steps down before her term is complete, a
  replacement may be appointed by a majority vote of the board of directors to serve out the term. one director
  seat is automatically assigned to us sif’s ceo, although it is a non-voting seat.

  term length and limits: the term of a director is three years. at-large directors and appointed directors are
  limited to two consecutive full terms of service, at which time they must cycle off the board. after a minimum of
  one year’s absence, an ex-director is once again eligible to serve on the board and may run for election as an
  at-large director, or again be eligible to fill one of the four appointed director seats.

  classified board: the at-large directors are elected in three, staggered-term classes. the board must
  include, either by election or appointment, at least one director from each of the membership categories in effect
  on the date of the election of at-large directors. one director seat shall be automatically assigned to us sif’s
  ceo. the number of at-large and appointed directors may be changed by an amendment of the organization’s
  by-laws. however, no such amendment may reduce the term of any director then in office.

  executive directors: there are at least four and up to five executive members of the board who, with the
  ceo, also comprise the board’s executive committee. the chair is the principal officer of us sif and presides
  at all meetings of the board of directors and the executive committee. the chair exercises general charge and
  supervision of the affairs of the organization, subject to the control of the board. the vice-chair performs the
  duty of the chair at the request of the chair or in the event of the chair’s absence or disability. (the bylaws
  provide the ability for the board to name additional officers, and for several years, the board named a second
  vice-chair.) the secretary has general responsibility for us sif’s books, board documents, policies and minutes
  of board meetings, and the treasurer has general responsibility for us sif’s funds, financial records, property
  and securities.

  board diversity: in creating the slate for elected positions and in appointing directors, the board and its
  nominating committee are required to seek to diversify the board in terms of gender, race, religion, ethnic origin,
  sexual orientation, geographic representation and business focus within the field of sustainable investing.

  director compensation: directors are not compensated for their time and are only reimbursed for expenses
  if approved by a majority vote of the board.

  separation of chairman and ceo: the ceo is prohibited from serving as the chair of the board.

  meetings: the board holds at least three in-person meetings per year and held three in 2012. the board also
  held, by telephone, one meeting of the entire board and three of the executive committee in 2012.

  director attendance: directors must attend at least two-thirds of all board meetings (in person and by
  telephone) or risk being asked to resign.

4 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

committees: there are two standing committees of the board: the executive committee comprised of the
four to five executive directors and the ceo, and the nominating committee. for 2012, the executive committee
members were: michael lent (chair), paul hilton (vice chair), jan bryan (secretary), ingrid dyott (treasurer) and
lisa woll (ceo). the executive committee can approve changes to policies and other matters to ensure the
smooth day-to-day operations of us sif. however, the committee is not allowed to fill vacancies on the board
or on any board committee, amend or repeal the us sif’s bylaws, or take any action that affects more than 5
percent or $5,000 of us sif’s budget, whichever is higher. it also needs to report all of its actions outside of
ordinary business to the full board within 14 days. the nominating committee deals with vacant board seats and
issues related to director elections. in 2012, its members were: john liechty (chair), darragh gallant, reginald
stanley and lisa woll. in addition to these two committees, there were several other board committees:

• governance: reviews and updates us sif’s governance practices [michael lent, frank altman,
  tim brennan and lisa woll].

• membership: assesses membership dues and requirements, as well as new membership categories and
  recruitment efforts [phil kirshman (chair), jan bryan, tim brennan, michelle clayman, darragh gallant, craig
  metrick, curtis ravenel and lisa woll]. this committee included several non board members.

• audit: reviews us sif’s books and accounting practices [tim brennan (chair), frank altman, and
  ingrid dyott].

• development committee: reviews and suggests strategies to diversify and grow organizational revenues,
  particularly related to sustainable investment education [paul hilton (chair), jan bryan, ingrid dyott, michelle
  clayman, phil kirshman and lisa woll]. this committee also included several non-board members.

• 401k trustees: meets with the advisor provided by plan administrator social(k) to review the performance
  and diversification provided by the funds offered under the us sif plan, and to replace, retire or add funds to
  the lineup as appropriate [craig metrick and betsy zeidman].

additionally, while not included in the governance section, a number of board members were also represented
on the conference agenda committee and the research committee.

by-laws: a full copy of us sif’s bylaws is available to members through the member center on the
us sif website.

annual review: the board conducts an annual self-review, led by the chair. the board sets annual goals as
a body. all board members also set individual goals.

2012 board elections: us sif conducted its 2012 election online. us sif members voted in three new and
one returning board members:
• meredith benton, client portfolio manager/shareholder engagement, boston common asset management

• michelle clayman, managing partner & chief investment officer, new amsterdam partners

• justin conway, senior director, investment partnerships, calvert social investment foundation

• kimberlee cornett, director, social investments, the kresge foundation

the board also appointed dan nielsen, director of socially responsible investing at christian brothers
investment services, to the us sif and us sif foundation boards.

we also said thank you and farewell to our four outgoing members: sarah cleveland, ceo, sarah cleveland
consulting; amy o’brien, director, global social & community investing, tiaa-cref; david sand,
chief investment officer, cdt advisors; and matt patsky, ceo, trillium asset management.




                                                      2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 5

    2012 us sif and us sif foundation
    board of directors




                                                                       ingrid dyott, treasurer*
                                frank altman                           vice president and
                                president & ceo, community             managing director,
                                reinvestment fund                      neuberger berman




                                                                       darragh gallant
                                tim brennan                            managing director, u.s.
                                treasurer and chief financial          and director of institutional
                                officer, unitarian universalist        relations, north america,
                                association of congregations           sustainalytics




                                                                       paul hilton, vice chair*
                                jan bryan, secretary*                  portfolio manager,
                                cfp®, aif™, first affirmative          trillium asset
                                financial network                      management, llc


                                                                       phil kirshman
                                                                       senior portfolio
                                                                       manager, pmp,
                                                                       the leonard social
                                michelle clayman                       investment group,
                                managing partner & chief               ubs institutional
                                investment officer, new                consulting group,
                                amsterdam partners                     ubs financial services
                                                                     	  




  *executive committee member


6 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

                                                                                            reginald stanley
                              michael lent, chair*                                          ceo & founder,
                              chief investment officer,                                     sustainable growth
                              veris wealth partners                                         strategies, llc




                              john liechty
                              principal & founder,
                              integrated investment                                         lisa woll*
                              solutions                                                     ceo, us sif




                                                                                            david wood
                              leslie lowe                                                   director, the institute for
                              managing director,                                            responsible investment,
                              uci environmental                                             hauser center for nonprofit
                              accountability                                                organizations




                              craig metrick
                              principal and us head of                                      betsy zeidman
                              responsible investment,                                       senior fellow,
                              mercer                                                        milken institute




                              curtis ravenel
                              global head, sustainability
                              group, bloomberg




*executive committee member


                                                          2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 7

    2010–2012 strategic plan

  us sif’s strategic planning determines the overall direction of the organization. our 2012 operating plan,
  which guided our activities throughout the year, was based on the goals established in our strategic plan
  for 2010-2012.

  the 2010-2012 strategic goals are listed below.

  strategic goal 1
  provide support for members’ professional and educational development to allow members and the sri industry
  to achieve greater impact.

  strategic goal 2
  enhance the external reach of us sif, and thus sri, through research, media, educational and public
  policy work.

  strategic goal 3
  increase substantially the number of institutions and individuals engaged in sri.

  strategic goal 4
  increase the membership of us sif, thereby further maximizing us sif’s ability to influence policy and public
  perception.

  strategic goal 5
  create a financially viable business model for us sif, which should follow from the achievement of the four
  goals stated above.




8 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

our
work

                                    the following
                                    sections
                                    present our
                                    core activities.




                                                                       	  


       2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 9

      research & resources

   us sif ltd.
   sri mutual fund performance chart: with data from us sif member bloomberg, us sif updated
   its mutual fund performance chart throughout 2012, offering useful data about its members’ funds to retail
   investors and financial advisors.

   us sif foundation
   the research of the us sif foundation underscored that sri strategies can be practiced across a wide array
   of asset classes.

   trends report: in november, the us sif foundation released the 2012 report on sustainable and
   responsible investing trends in the united states (“trends”), after nearly a year-long research and production
   process. this marked the ninth edition of this flagship report, which was first produced in 1995. the report
   is based on results from a confidential survey sent to approximately 1,100 investment management firms
   and institutional asset owners identified in previous surveys as practicing sri strategies or believed to be
   new entrants to sri practice.

   the trends report found that sri assets grew by 22 percent from year-end 2009 to year-end 2011 to a total
   of $3.74 trillion, driven in part by the growing number of institutional asset owners that consider governance
   issues in investment analysis and the dramatic expansion in the number and assets of mutual funds and
   alternative funds that consider environmental, social and governance criteria.

   the 2012 edition also included several improvements or changes over previous editions. for example, the
   report provided more context about why sustainable and responsible investment matters, as well as a more
   comprehensive summary of the evolution and practice of sustainable and responsible investing across a
   range of asset classes.

   to make the report easier to access for journalists and others, the us sif foundation created a new trends
   landing page (www.ussif.org/trends), which compiled all relevant information about the report into one
   section. the page also featured testimonials from industry leaders about the importance of the trends
   report as well as infographics to visually convey important facts from the report; both these features helped
   make the report more accessible to those who are unfamiliar with sustainable and responsible investing. in
   addition, us sif held both member and non-member webinars on the report, as well as one with reporters.
   stories about the trends report were published in numerous outlets including: bloomberg businessweek,
   bloomberg news, chicago tribune, cnbc, environmental finance, financial advisor, fundfire,
   marketwatch, the motley fool, pensions and investments, thomson reuters, and yahoo finance.

   in december, the us sif foundation held trends briefings on capitol hill for congressional staff and a
   briefing for members of the executive branch agencies who participate in the interagency task force on the
   impact economy. the trends report was also sent to key congressional and executive branch staff.

   us sif foundation thanks the following donors and sponsors of the 2012 trends report: wallace global
   fund, bloomberg, tiaa-cref, blackrock, breckinridge, christian brothers investment services, cra
   qualified investment fund, legg mason, clearbridge advisors and legg mason investment counsel,
   neuberger berman, sentinel investments, trillium asset management, walden asset management and
   wespath investment management (a division of umc general board of pension & health benefits).




10 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

community investing report: in june, the us sif foundation released options & innovations in community
investing: a report from the field. the report, intended as a practical guide for a wide array of investors and
investment professionals, reviews the vehicles available, by asset class, to retail, high net worth and institutional
investors. drawing on interviews with more than 50 investment professionals, including investment advisors,
fund managers and community development advocates, the report found that many of the innovations in the
community investing field are being driven by interest among high net worth individuals and other accredited
investors.

the us sif foundation thanks rosalie sheehy cates for her work authoring the report.

sri impact report: in march, the us sif foundation internally released making a difference: the impact of
sustainable and responsible investing. the report provided an overview of the influence of sustainable and
responsible investing on investors and the investment industry, companies, individuals and communities, and
on public policy. the report, which focuses in particular on the last 20 years, garnered tremendous positive
feedback from our members. it will be updated and made available to the general public in 2013. a four-page
executive summary is available on us sif’s public website.




                                                       2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 11

      events & media

   us sif ltd.
   annual conference: in may, us sif held its second annual conference, sustainable investing in action,
   in washington, dc. member-only programming included us sif’s annual meeting, training on public policy
   advocacy in preparation for members’ visits to their elected representatives on capitol hill, and ceo lisa
   woll’s interview with jonathan greenblatt, director of the white house office of social innovation and civic
   participation and special assistant to the president. the conference attracted over 300 attendees, raised the
   profile of our organization and our industry in several publications, and provided an exciting range of plenary
   and breakout sessions on issues ranging from the impact of citizens united to the future of sustainable investing
   and building integrated, green communities. we heard from sustainable investment leaders, policy makers
   and administration officials, ceos and nonprofit leaders. the conference featured dynamic presentations from
   barbara bennett, cfo of the us environmental protection agency; jonathan f.p. rose, founder of jonathan f.p.
   rose companies; and kim jeffrey, president and ceo of nestle waters north america, among others.

   us sif staff is deeply grateful to the volunteer members of the agenda committee in 2012 who developed
   ideas for sessions at the 2012 annual conferences and helped recruit speakers: susan babcock, barb brown,
   sarah cleveland, noel friedman, paul hilton, jeannine jacokes, erika karp, phil kirshman, heather lang, craig
   metrick, aditi mohapatra, dan nielsen, megan smith, meg voorhes, marianne voss, lisa woll, david wood and
   betsy zeidman.

   sponsors of the conference were: ubs, bloomberg, pax world investments, tiaa-cref financial services,
   boston common asset management, neuberger berman, s&p indices, portfolio 21 investments, sustainalytics,
   walden asset management, breckinridge capital advisors, dana investment advisors , christian brothers
   investment services (cbis), appleseed fund, dow jones indexes, calvert investments, eiris, msci,
   campbell’s, domini social investments, parnassus investments, brown flynn, crf usa, new amsterdam
   partners, towers watson, schroder’s, mercer, the coca cola company, moxy vote, f&c, intel, mccormick,
   the nature conservancy, gamco and trillium asset management. media sponsors included csrwire,
   the nation and responsible investor.

   social media: us sif continued to grow its social media presence throughout the year. at the end of 2012,
   us sif’s twitter feed (http://www.twitter.com/followussif) counted approximately 900 followers, compared
   to 372 followers at the end of 2011. us sif’s facebook page (http://www.facebook.com/followussif) ended
   the year with more than 435 fans, compared to just over 120 at the end of 2011. finally, us sif maintained its
   presence on linkedin (for exclusive use by us sif members) to demonstrate their professional affiliation with
   us sif. us sif leveraged these three channels to promote us sif events, press releases and research, and
   developments in sri.

   media-related activities: us sif or the us sif foundation issued 11 press releases in 2012 on a broad
   range of topics reflecting us sif’s diverse programs, research and public policy priorities. in november,
   us sif held a press event via teleconference. ceo lisa woll, us sif deputy director meg voorhes and lead
   author joshua humphreys of the tellus institute discussed the findings of the 2012 report on sustainable and
   responsible investing trends in the united states, which received favorable coverage in bloomberg, financial
   advisor magazine and other publications.

   member receptions: us sif held five get-togethers in 2012 for current and prospective members. these
   events were held in atlanta, chicago, san francisco, washington, dc and new york city.




12 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif foundation
member webinars: us sif held five webinars for members in 2012 as part of its effort to expand educational
and professional development opportunities on the following topics:

   • the status of women’s representation on corporate boards in several major markets, including australia
      and the united states;
   • the concerns around rising pay disparity and executive compensation;
   • the findings of us sif foundation’s report on options & innovations in community investing;
   • the sec’s new rules resulting from the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act’s
      sections 1502 and 1504 on conflict minerals disclosure and disclosure of payments to governments by
      extractives companies; and
   • the 2012 report on sustainable and responsible investing trends in the united states.

we also invited non-members to three of the above webinars.




                                                   2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 13

      public policy & capitol hill day

   us sif ltd.
   us sif and its members met with congressional staff, as well as the securities and exchange commission
   (sec), on several issues during 2012. public policy priorities during the year included commenting to the sec
   on rulemaking required by the dodd-frank wall street financial reform and consumer protection act of 2010.
   during the year members led efforts to support legislation on addressing slavery and trafficking, encouraging
   the sec to strongly implement the foreign corrupt practices act and strengthening investor protections in the
   jump-start our business start-ups (jobs) act. us sif’s policy committee also discussed the impact on our
   work of the new 113th congress and the re-election of president barack obama, monitored significant new
   changes in leadership at the sec and identified potential policy priority areas for 2013.

   capitol hill day: us sif provided public policy and advocacy training for us sif members during the
   member day portion of our annual conference and helped them arrange visits with their elected representatives.
   members held more than 30 meetings with congressional offices in support of such us sif priorities as:
       • the federal employees responsible investment act (feria), a bill to give federal employees an sri option
         in their retirement plan;
       • adequate funding for the community development financial institutions fund and the extension of the
         new markets tax credit;
       • climate change regulation and adequate funding for the environmental protection agency; and
       • mitigating the damage of the supreme court’s decision in citizens united through legislation to require
         companies to disclose information about campaign expenditures and asking the sec to issue regulations
         on corporate political contributions disclosure.

   during capitol hill day, members of us sif’s policy committee also held meetings with sec chairman schapiro
   and commissioner aguilar.

   rulemaking related to dodd-frank act: much of us sif’s policy work in 2012 centered on numerous
   provisions in the dodd-frank wall street financial reform and consumer protection act of 2010 that required
   the sec to draft implementing regulations. us sif staff held multiple meetings with sec commissioners and
   their staff to discuss the scope and text of such regulations, and issued formal comments on proposed rules.
   dodd-frank provisions of particular interest to us sif in 2012 are also discussed below.

        • conflict minerals disclosure–us sif and its members have been concerned about “conflict minerals”,
           such as use gold, tantalum, tin or tungsten, emanating from mining and smelting operations in the
           democratic republic of the congo (drc) and adjoining countries whose revenues support armed
           groups that are perpetrating human rights atrocities. this issue was addressed in section 1502 of the
           dodd-frank act. on august 22, us sif and several members were present at the open meeting of
           the sec where the commission adopted the conflict minerals disclosure rules. us sif welcomed the
           new rule calling on companies to implement this rule so that investors can assess the degree of care
           companies take to manage their supply chains in a more responsible manner and to avoid contributing
           to human rights violations. importantly, these rules will allow investors access to material information to
           evaluate a company’s supply chain risk in the region and distinguish companies that are managing this
           risk responsibly. us sif and its members played a key role in supporting these rules over the years and
           participated in numerous meetings as part of both investor and multi-stakeholder coalitions. the sec
           expressed appreciation of us sif and its members’ contributions to the rule-making process as it helped
           them better understand practical procedures for implementing the rule.

14 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

    • disclosure of payments to governments by resource extraction issuers—on august 22, the sec
       adopted a rule that requires resource extractive payment disclosure, represented by section 1504 of
       the dodd-frank act. us sif and a few of its members held multiple meetings with the sec during the
       rulemaking process. resource extraction issuers are now required to disclose information relating to any
       payment made by the issuer, a subsidiary of the issuer, or an entity under the control of the issuer, to a
       foreign government or the us federal government for the purpose of the commercial development of oil,
       natural gas, or minerals. the rule applies to all issuers – u.s. companies and foreign companies. us sif
       welcomed this rule as a positive outcome and consistent with requests by investors.
    • executive compensation and pay disparity—us sif and some of its members continued to engage
       with other organizations on the pay disparity rulemaking that would direct the sec to amend its executive
       compensation rule to require disclosure of the median total annual compensation paid to all employees
       other than the chief executive officer, the total annual compensation paid to the chief executive officer and
       the ratio between these two amounts. while the sec did not issue the rule in 2012, us sif continued to
       advocate for it.
    • investor advisory committee (iac) and office of investor advocate—after repeated calls by us sif and
       its members, the sec reconstituted the investor advisory committee as required by the dodd-frank act.
       the sec’s investor advisory committee includes representatives of three us sif member organizations:
       adam kanzer of domini social investments, mellody hobson of ariel investments and damon silvers of the
       afl-cio office of investment. in september, us sif submitted comments to the iac’s investor as owner
       subcommittee strongly encouraging it to review and formulate recommendations for sec rules to require
       publicly traded companies to disclose their corporate political contributions and material environmental,
       social and corporate governance issues, and for the establishment of the office of investor advocate.

corporate political contributions disclosure: in 2012, us sif and its members engaged in efforts
with other coalitions to respond to the supreme court’s 2010 decision in citizens united v. fec, which enables
corporations to spend an unlimited amount of money on political advertising. us sif is following the rulemaking
petitions asking the sec to begin requiring companies to disclose their political spending and/or subject their
budgets for political contributions to shareowner votes. at the end of 2012, the sec received almost 300,000
comments–a record number–on corporate political contributions rulemaking. in december 2012, the sec
announced that it intended to move forward with creating a rule to require all publicly traded corporations to
disclose their political spending.

sri option for federal employees: us sif continued to seek
congressional support on legislation introduced by representative jim
langevin (d-ri) entitled the federal employees responsible investment               policy committee
act (feria), which directs the federal retirement thrift investment board            at the end of 2012:
(frtib) to select a “corporate responsibility index” as an option for the
                                                                                        tim smith (chair)
thrift savings plan (tsp). in 2012, us sif and its members held more
than 50 meetings with congressional staff regarding this issue, as well as                 stu dalheim
meetings with the frtib and some labor representatives of its advisory
council. while continuing to support the legislation, us sif also called                bennett freeman
for one or more sri options as part of the mutual fund “window option”
under the thrift savings plan enhancement act, which authorizes the                         julie gorte
frtib to add such an option to allow participants to move investments                   jeannine jacokes
out of the tsp funds and into a private-sector suite of mutual funds.
                                                                                          adam kanzer
climate change: in 2012, us sif submitted a formal comment in
support of the us environmental protection agency’s proposed carbon
                                                                                         michael kramer
pollution standard for new power plants. additionally, as part of the                      michael lent
capitol hill day preceding the 2012 annual conference, several us
sif members met with the staffs of their elected representatives to ask                    cheryl smith
them to defend the epa’s utility mercury and air toxic standard (issued
as a final rule in march with its entry into the federal register) against                 david wood
a challenge by senator james inhofe (r-ok) under the congressional                       betsy zeidman
review act. us sif was pleased that the challenge failed, allowing the
rule to stand.

                                                      2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 15

      working groups & programs

   us sif’s programmatic work is largely carried out by staff, but also is given added value by the activities of the
   sustainable investment research analyst network (siran) and the other member-led working groups under
   us sif foundation. us sif is indebted to the members who volunteered their time to participate on steering
   committees, organize webinars and events, and provide technical expertise.

   us sif ltd.
   the following working group activity is carried out under the us sif ltd. and is described below.

   sustainable investment research analyst network (siran): the sustainable investment research
   analyst network (siran) advances research on corporate social responsibility and provides professional support
   for industry analysts. it offers a unique forum for sustainable investment research analysts to discuss research
   strategies, attend educational sessions and engage companies on sustainability issues. in 2012, siran held
   eight company teleconference meetings, giving analysts within the sri community the opportunity to question
   corporate representatives about sustainability challenges and opportunities at their companies. many of the
   analyst calls focused on the extractives industry and companies with particular sustainability controversies or
   best practices. these teleconference meetings took place with enel, exxon mobil, goldcorp, microsoft, royal
   bank of canada, shell and southwestern energy. siran also held more than a dozen educational sessions as a
   component of professional development for its members. topics included:
       • american water works                               • microsoft
       • google and the global network initiative           • global reporting initiative      siran steering
       • exxon mobil                                        • tetratek                           committee
       • healthcare insurance reform 2012                   • consumer lending and               at the end
                                                                                                  of 2012
       • royal dutch shell                                    payday loans
                                                                                                   dan nielsen
       • clorox                                             • integrated reporting                  (co-chair)
                                                                                                karoline barwinski
   us sif foundation                                                                                (co-chair)
   staff-directed programs include:                                                               amy augustine
                                                                                                  darragh gallant
       • participation in international sri issues as part of the global sustainable
          investment alliance (www.gsi-alliance.org). in march, the us sif foundation             noel friedman
          co-hosted an event with uksif and eurosif in london. the event drew more                 steven heim
          than 60 investors and consultants from north america and europe, with lively             heather lang
          session discussions, busy networking receptions and a well-attended, final
                                                                                                  elizabeth levy
          panel featuring the chief executives of seven global sustainable investment
          organizations. the gsia also held its second meeting in london; us sif                     rina levy
          foundation served as the secretariat for the global sustainable investment              mike lombardo
          alliance.                                                                            mary jane mcquillen
       • in 2012, us sif staff also collaborated with the initiative for responsible              tessie petion
          investment and the milken institute, with funding from the ford foundation,
          to identify how the community investing field may expand its investor base to           marcela pinilla
          better deliver social and environmental benefits to marginalized communities.          meggin thwing-
          us sif held a very well attended meeting with high level federal agency                  eastman
          staff to discuss opportunities for private investment in federal community             mariela vargova


16 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

     development initiatives. in april, a moderated discussion with investors titled opportunities in community
     investment was held at the milken institute global conference 2012. moderators and attendees looked
     beyond traditional market practices and identified innovative products or strategies emerging in community
     development finance.
the following member-led working group activity is carried out under the us sif foundation:

community investing working group (ciwg): the community investing working group creates strategies
for us sif members and others to increase investments in communities underserved by traditional financial
services. in 2012, ciwg held two meetings for us sif members: one at the us sif annual conference in
washington, dc and the other hosted by the sri conference (formerly sri in the rockies) in connecticut.
at the us sif annual conference, ciwg members traveled to capitol hill and met with key legislative
representatives to advocate for greater funding for the treasury’s cdfi fund in the 2012 congressional
appropriations budget.

indigenous peoples working group (ipwg): the indigenous peoples working group seeks to bring
together native and non-native communities in the area of sustainable and responsible investing. ipwg partners
with native american organizations and leaders in order to achieve this goal. it works to coordinate research,
outreach, education and advocacy around investment issues that affect indigenous peoples’ cultures and
communities. in 2012, the ipwg hosted meetings on indigenous peoples’ issues at the us sif conference and
at the sri conference. ipwg members also traveled to native american conferences around the country to
speak about sri. meanwhile, members of ipwg’s advocacy subcommittee continued corporate dialogue with
fedex, citing concerns with its sponsorship of the washington, dc professional football team with a name and
mascot that american indians and many others consider derogatory.

international working group (iwg): the international working group collaborates with other global
institutional investors, researchers, and advocacy partners focused on how investments can positively affect
global issues of concern and influence corporations operating around the world. during us sif’s annual
conference, iwg and siran organized a series of sessions for members on topics such as company
engagement and corporate political contributions. the group also presented a series of webinars focused on
responsible stock exchanges and on the emerging markets disclosure project (see below).

    • the emerging markets disclosure project (emdp), a project of iwg aimed at promoting better esg
       disclosure practices among emerging market companies, released a final report in 2012 on the activities
       of country teams in brazil, indonesia, south korea and south africa. since 2008, the project, through
       research and engagement activities, sought to increase sustainability reporting, improve the quality of data
       reported and enhance transparency among emerging market companies. lauren compere (co-chair) and
       mike lombardo (co-chair) led the emdp with us sif staff assistance as well as technical assistance and
       support from the principles for responsible investment (pri).
more information about us sif’s working groups and their activities can be found at: http://www.ussif.org/
workinggroups.

               working group steering committee members at the end of 2012
   ciwg steering committee                 ipwg steering committee                  iwg steering committee
          ellen golden                            susan white                          jacob park (chair)
            (co-chair)                             (co-chair)                           molly betournay
   georgette frazer (co-chair)                jan bryan (co-chair)                     alison bevilacqua
      elizabeth glenshaw                        carla fredericks                        simon billenness
       jeannine jacokes                           steven heim                            tony campos
          donna katzin                         stephanie leighton                         sonia kowal
          andy loving                           reed montague                           mike lombardo
        warren mclean                                                                     judith moore
           joe porter                                                                      dan nielsen
           art stevens                                                                catalina secreteanu
         michael swack                                                                  mariela vargova
         wilbert young


                                                     2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 17

      professional education

   us sif foundation
   2012 paved the way for the us sif foundation to emerge as the source in the united states for professional
   education, research and though leadership in sustainable and responsible investment. with valuable support
   from a dedicated group of us sif members on the development committee, including several advisors,
   and lead consultant georgette frazer, the us sif foundation began to develop an online course on the
   fundamentals of sustainable and responsible investment.

   us sif foundation thanks:
                                                                          development committee
       • bloomberg for its generous support for course
                                                                             at the end of 2012
          development.
       • calvert foundation, calvert investments,                       paul hilton        jan bryan
          neuberger berman and parnassus investments                    art stevens        eric smith
          for seed money that allowed us to begin the
          journey towards online education several years              georgette frazer     ingrid dyott
          ago.                                                        michelle clayman    noel freidman
       • georgette frazer, the lead consultant, and the                 paul ellis       phil kirshman
          members of the development committee for
          their time and invaluable support.                          sarah cleveland    steve lydenberg




18 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

our commitment
to sustainability


                                         the following
                                         section
                                         presents our
                                         commitment
                                         to our
                                         employees and
                                         to sustainability.




            2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 19

      policies & practices

   below is an overview of some of us sif’s environmental, employee and other social policies and practices.
   (governance was covered in a previous section.) additional information appears in the gri index at the end of
   this report.

   staff travel: us sif staff is strongly encouraged to use public transportation or other shared rides whenever
   possible when commuting to work or travelling on us sif business. us sif participates in the washington
   metropolitan area transit authority’s smartbenefits program, which allows employees to pay for public
   transportation expenses with pre-tax income. us sif’s central office location, adjacent to three major subway
   lines and bus transportation, as well as a shared bike service, provides incentive for its employees to use public
   transportation, and all of them did in 2012. on business travel, train use is promoted over air travel for short
   trips. detailed information on staff travel appears in the analysis of the organization’s carbon footprint below.

   recycling and waste reduction: us sif recycles office paper, cardboard, drink containers and other items,
   including toner cartridges for its printers. it also uses partially recycled paper. us sif donates or responsibly
   recycles all used electronic equipment. us sif staff and guests also use non-disposable drink containers,
   plates and utensils, and us sif staff composts its coffee grounds. us sif offers electronic versions of all of its
   marketing, research reports and other print materials to minimize paper use and limits print materials whenever
   possible. the default setting on all us sif printers is double-sided. more information on us sif’s paper use
   appears in the review of its carbon footprint below.

   environmental considerations for events: us sif considers the sustainability initiatives of the
   prospective venues it reviews during the site selection process for conferences. these considerations include
   energy use, use of renewable energy, green building certifications, water use, recycling and waste management,
   use of local organic food, food donations, stakeholder relations and labor practices. us sif also weighs whether
   a site is compliant with the green hotel initiative and whether it has calculated its carbon footprint with the goal
   of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. at event venues, us sif encourages attendees to recycle and makes
   recycling as easy as possible. it also seeks to choose sustainable, organic and fair trade products in menu
   selections and avoids using bottled water at its events.

   carbon footprint: as advised by the global reporting initiative, us sif used the greenhouse gas protocol
   (ghg protocol) developed by the world resources institute (wri) and the world business council for
   sustainable development to calculate its greenhouse gas emissions. in particular, it used the ghg protocol’s
   guidance for small, office-based businesses: working 9 to 5 on climate change. us sif has no direct
   emissions. under the ghg protocol, all of us sif’s emissions are indirect “scope three” emissions as us sif
   does not own its office space, leasing it from a third party, and does not own corporate cars or jets. us sif
   focused measurements of its indirect emissions in four primary areas: employee commuting, business travel,
   office energy consumption and paper use.




20 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

                                             us sif employee commuting patterns
employee                  no. of  car miles bus miles                                          light      train miles     walk/bike
                        commuting   per day  per day                                         rail miles    (dc metro)       miles
                           days 			                                                           per day        per day       per day
                         per week

#1               3                                   6.0                     0                     0         14.0             0.5
#2               5                                    0                      0                     0         13.0             1.0
#3               4                                   2.0                     0                     0         14.0             0.1
#4               5                                    0                      0                     0          5.0             1.0
#5               5                                    0                      0                     0          4.0             1.5
#6               5                                    0                      0                     0          3.0             1.0
#7               5                                    0                      0                     0           0              1.0
total for 2012 		                                   1,196                    0                     0        10,258           1,357

commuting: except for one employee who walked to work, all us sif employees used public transportation
to commute in 2012. only two employees used car travel for a portion of their commute to get to the subway,
although one of the employees only commuted on average three days per week and another employee only
commuted an average of four days per week. each us sif staff member was granted three to five weeks of
vacation leave per year, in addition to sick leave, as well as the equivalent of two weeks federal holiday leave.
therefore, total miles in the table above are based on a 46-week work year.

employee work-related travel: us sif employees are required to file trip reports for all business-related
travel. using these reports, us sif was able to calculate mileage for all types of travel, except some car travel
completed without receipts from car rental companies and some travel by public transport. whenever possible,
mileage estimates were made using google maps and other methods to arrive at the totals in the accompanying
table.

                                           employee-related travel in 2012 (miles)
                    air                           train/subway                                    bus                    car
                  28,856                                4,036.7                                   20.5                   78.4


                                               carbon footprint of us sif travel
mode of                                       total miles                                   emissions                total co2-e in
transportation                                 traveled                                      factor                   metric tons
air                                               28,856                                      0.00020                    5.771
car                                               1,274.4                                     0.00031                    0.395
train                                            14,294.7                                     0.00017                    2.430
bus                                                 20.5                                      0.00018                    0.004
total for 2012                                                                                                            8.6
emissions factors were drawn from the department of energy’s energy information administration.


office energy consumption: us sif leases office space in the barr building, located in farragut square
at 910 17th street nw, suite 1000, washington, dc 20006. in 2012, the barr building used 1,931,738 kilowatt
hours (kwh) of electricity for its 92,411 square feet or 20.90 kwh per square foot. us sif occupies 2,235
square feet of space of the 92,411 square feet serviced by the main meter. based on these assumptions, we
estimate that us sif used 46,720 kwh in 2012. using the average emissions factor for our region (0.0001002
metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per kilowatt hour per the environmental protection agency), we
estimated that the carbon footprint for the us sif office from electricity use was 4.681 metric tons of carbon
dioxide equivalent (co2-e) in 2012. there are several imperfections to this calculation that need to be improved
upon in future reporting. first, this did not account for us sif’s use of common areas in the building. second,


                                                                         2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 21

   a separate organization, business for social responsibility (bsr),                            paper
   subleased a portion of us sif’s space in 2012. finally, while us sif
   and the building used compact fluorescent bulbs throughout the facility
   and lighting triggered by movement to reduce energy consumption in
   common areas, the barr building did not purchase renewable energy
   credits from pepco, our local utility.
                                                                                     energy
   paper consumption: us sif used the approximate equivalent of                    consumption
   160 reams of paper in the production of marketing materials, reports,                                      travel
   business cards and day-to-day office paper consumption. the
   average weight of a ream of paper is 2.6 kilograms per ream, and the
   carbon footprint for recycled content, which us sif used, is 1.907
   kilograms of co2-e per kilogram of paper consumed. using these
   assumptions, the carbon footprint of us sif’s paper use was 0.793
   metric tons of co2-e.

   total: based on our calculations and assumptions, us sif’s carbon footprint is the equivalent of 14.074 metric
   tons of co2-e. a breakdown of the primary contributors to this total appears in the accompanying pie chart.

   room for improvement: us sif does not currently have a strategy for reducing its carbon footprint, aside
   from following its present strategies for limiting energy consumption, travel and paper use.

   eeo policy: us sif’s anti-bias policy states that it “shall not discriminate and shall take affirmative action to
   ensure that it conducts all business without regard to a person’s race, color, religion, gender, age, affectional or
   sexual orientation, marital or familial status, national origin, ancestry, non-job related disability, veteran status,
   or other unlawful bases.” as an organization based in the district of columbia, us sif also is prohibited from
   discriminating in employment based on gender identity.

   employee benefits: us sif offers employees a group health and dental plan and subsidizes the premiums. it
   also provides a 401(k) plan, matches contributions up to 5 percent of an employee’s annual salary before taxes
   and offers sri and other investment options through social(k). us sif provides sick, vacation and personal
   leave to all employees, as well as disability and life insurance. employees may also elect to make pre-tax
   contributions to participate in the smartbenefits program offered by the local transportation authority and in a
   flexible spending account program for medical and child care expenses.

   political contributions: while us sif engages a policy consultant and has its staff engage on various
   policy issues on behalf of the us sif membership, us sif does not make political contributions or endorse
   candidates for public office.

   us sif membership benefits: during 2012, us sif members enjoyed the following benefits:

            research
            • access to cutting-edge us sif research & publications, including us sif foundation’s biennial report
               on sustainable and responsible investing trends in the united states

            public policy
            • participation in us sif’s public policy and field-building work, including access to sample letters to
               congress and regulatory agencies
            • opportunities to sign on to policy statements that us sif submitted to congress, the white house and
               federal agencies
            • invitation to participate in policy and advocacy training and capitol hill day in washington, dc

            educational opportunities
            • member-only programming, training and discounts
            • invitations to regional member receptions and special events
            • access to resources such as webinars and online member discussions on critical industry issues
            • discounts to other selected industry events and conferences

22 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

      networking

      •staying up-to-date on the latest industry trends and access to information on what’s available across
       the asset class spectrum
      •exposure to new markets and opportunities
      •interaction with thought leaders in sustainable and responsible investing
      •opportunities to join other members to expand the sustainable investing market

      advertising, visibility & marketing opportunities  
      •inclusion in us sif’s online financial services directory, showcasing member business activities
      •recognition and visibility through sponsorship opportunities of us sif conferences and special events,
       the us sif website and publications
      •use of “us sif member” logos on member company websites and us sif presentations on
       sustainable and responsible investing

      media
      •benefits from press conferences, media referrals, social media and other media activities that build
       public awareness of sustainable investing

      additional benefits for money managers
      •listing of mutual funds and etfs in us sif’s online fund performance chart

staff: as of year-end 2012, us sif had seven full-time staff members.




                                                                                 terry thornton
                                                                                 assistant director of
                     lisa woll                                                   professional
                     ceo                                                         education




                     meg voorhes                                                 megan smith		
                     deputy director &                                           public affairs & events
                     research director                                           assistant			




                     alya kayal                                                  supap jitta
                     director of policy &                                        membership & marketing
                     programs                                                    coordinator




                     sylvia panek
                     assistant director
                     of operations &
                     development 		
                     		

                                                   2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 23

      2012 audited financials



                   to the board of directors
                   us sif: the forum for sustainable and
                    responsible investment and
                   us sif foundation
                   washington, dc


                                                    independent auditor's report

                   report on the financial statements

                   we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of us sif: the forum for
                   sustainable and responsible investment and us sif foundation (collectively referred to as the
                   organization), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as of december 31, 2012,
                   and the related consolidated statements of activities, functional expenses and cash flows for the year then
                   ended, and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements.

                   management’s responsibility for the financial statements

                   management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial
                   statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america;
                   this includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation
                   and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
                   fraud or error.

                   auditor’s responsibility

                   our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
                   we conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the united states of
                   america. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
                   whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement.

                   an audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in
                   the consolidated financial statements. the procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment,
                   including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements,
                   whether due to fraud or error. in making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control
                   relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order
                   to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
                   an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. accordingly, we express no such opinion.
                   an audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness
                   of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
                   the consolidated financial statements.

                   we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
                   our audit opinion.




                                                                        1


24 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif: the forum for sustainable and
  responsible investment and
us sif foundation
independent auditor's report




opinion

in our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of the organization as of december 31, 2012, and the changes in its net
assets and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the united states of america.

report on summarized comparative information

we have previously audited the organization’s 2011 consolidated financial statements, and we expressed
an unmodified opinion on those consolidated financial statements in our report dated may 31, 2012. in
our opinion, the summarized comparative information presented herein as and for the year ended
december 31, 2011, is consistent, in all material respects, with the audited consolidated financial
statements from which it has been derived.




washington, dc
may 19, 2013




                                                 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 25

            us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                    and us sif foundation
                           consolidated statement of financial position
                                                            december 31, 2012
                                                     (with summarized financial information for december 31, 2011)


                                                                                          2012               2011

            assets

            current assets
            cash and cash equivalents                                                $ 538,294          $ 559,946
            grant receivable                                                            10,000             15,525
            prepaid expenses                                                            51,379             21,119

            total current assets                                                       599,673            596,590

            property and equipment

            computers and phone equipment                                               10,410              8,619
            accumulated depreciation
              and amortization                                                           (8,442)            (5,948)

            total property and equipment                                                 1,968              2,671

            security deposit                                                             5,774              5,774

            total assets                                                             $ 607,415          $ 605,035

            liabilities and net assets

            current liabilities
            accounts payable and accrued expenses                                     $ 66,214           $ 29,002
            deferred revenue                                                           172,480             25,820
            deferred rent                                                                3,986              2,091

            total current liabilities                                                  242,680             56,913

            deferred rent, net of current portion                                        1,541              5,527

            total liabilities                                                          244,221             62,440

            net assets

            unrestricted                                                               305,017            160,923
            temporarily restricted                                                      58,177            381,672

            total net assets                                                           363,194            542,595

            total liabilities and net assets                                         $ 607,415          $ 605,035

                                        the accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.


                                                               3



26 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                          and us sif foundation
                        consolidated statement of activities
                                for the year ended december 31, 2012
                         (with summarized financial information for the year ended december 31, 2011)


                                                                  temporarily         2012          2011
                                                unrestricted        restricted       total         total

revenues

membership dues                                       $ 708,520                  $ 708,520    $ 705,716
contributions                                            21,275      $ 10,000       31,275      502,705
sponsorship, other than events                          143,136                    143,136      132,500
event related income                                    354,072                    354,072      327,701
investment income                                         1,273                      1,273        1,037
other revenue                                            18,507                     18,507       29,040
net assets released from restrictions                   333,495      (333,495)          -0-          -0-

total revenues                                        1,580,278      (323,495)   1,256,783    1,698,699

expenses

program services                                      1,330,719                  1,330,719    1,079,660
management and general                                   56,609                     56,609       80,023
membership development                                   37,185                     37,185       38,067
fundraising                                              11,671                     11,671       17,722

total expenses                                        1,436,184            -0-   1,436,184    1,215,472

change in net assets                                   144,094       (323,495)    (179,401)    483,227

net assets, beginning of year                          160,923        381,672     542,595        59,368

net assets, end of year                               $ 305,017      $ 58,177    $ 363,194    $ 542,595

                             the accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                                                  4



                                                2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 27

            us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                      and us sif foundation
                          consolidated statement of functional expenses
                                            for the year ended december 31, 2012
                                              (with summarized financial information for the year ended december 31, 2011)

                                                     program      management     membership                          2012          2011
                                                       services    and general   development    fundraising         total         total

            salaries                                 $ 525,716        $ 36,161                      $ 7,485     $ 569,362     $ 463,554
            employee benefits and payroll taxes         87,485          6,077                         1,265        94,827        81,624
            recruitment and training                     1,339             97                            20         1,456           405
            payroll and benefits administration          4,869            338                            71         5,278         5,375
            consulting                                 305,583          6,173        $ 37,185         1,247       350,188       288,309
            grant expense                              125,624                                                    125,624        20,000
            office expenses                            113,023          6,796                         1,427       121,246       131,551
            sif - sponsored events                     138,678                                                    138,678       197,226
            staff meals, lodging and travel             15,371             77                             7        15,455        14,657
            financial services and fees                 11,898            830                           147        12,875        11,871
            miscellaneous                                1,133             60                             2         1,195           900

            total expenses                          $ 1,330,719       $ 56,609       $ 37,185      $ 11,671   $ 1,436,184   $ 1,215,472


                                                             the accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                                                                          5



28 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

    us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                              and us sif foundation
                          consolidated statement of cash flows
                                    for the year ended december 31, 2012
                              (with summarized financial information for the year ended december 31, 2011)

.
                                                                                            2012          2011

    cash flows from operating activities

    change in net assets                                                               $ (179,401)   $ 483,227

    adjustments to reconcile change in net assets to net cash (used in)
      provided by operating activities:

      depreciation                                                                         2,494         2,873
      decrease (increase) in grants receivable                                             5,525       (15,263)
      increase in prepaid expenses                                                       (30,260)       (5,356)
      increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accrued expenses                        37,212        (8,008)
      increase (decrease) in deferred revenue                                            146,660       (34,221)
      decrease in deferred rent                                                           (2,091)         (238)

    net cash (used in) provided by operating activities                                   (19,861)     423,014

    cash flows from investing activities

    purchases of property and equipment                                                    (1,791)          -0-

    net cash used in investing activities                                                  (1,791)          -0-

    net (decrease) increase in cash
     and cash equivalents                                                                 (21,652)     423,014

    cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year                                         559,946       136,932

    cash and cash equivalents, end of year                                              $ 538,294    $ 559,946

                                     the accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.




                                                          6



                                                        2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 29

             us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                     and us sif foundation
                              notes to consolidated financial statements
                                                             december 31, 2012

            note a - organization and summary of significant accounting policies

            principles of
            consolidation and
            organization           us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment (formerly social
                                   investment forum, ltd.) (us sif) is a nonprofit organization incorporated under
                                   the laws of new york in november 1984. the objective and purpose of the us
                                   sif is to advance investment practices that consider environmental, social and
                                   corporate governance criteria to generate long-term competitive financial returns
                                   and positive societal impact.

                                   us sif foundation (formerly social investment forum foundation, inc.) (the
                                   foundation) is a nonprofit organization incorporated under the laws of
                                   massachusetts in june 1989. the objective and purpose of the foundation is to
                                   support the activities and purpose of the us sif by assuming the responsibilities
                                   for, and the management of, certain educational, research, charitable and
                                   scientific activities.

                                   the us sif and the foundation share staff and board members and the us sif is
                                   the sole member of the foundation.

                                   the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the us sif and the
                                   foundation. all interorganization balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

                                   the us sif and the foundation are funded primarily by member dues,
                                   contributions, event and sponsorship revenues.

                                   the us sif's and the foundation's programs include promotion and education of
                                   sustainable and responsible investing, the publication of an online resource guide
                                   and events, seminars and public policy forums relating to the concept of
                                   sustainable and responsible investing and business practices.

            basis of
            accounting             the accompanying consolidated financial statements are presented on the accrual
                                   basis of accounting. consequently, revenue is recognized when earned and
                                   expenses when incurred.

            tax status             the us sif is a membership association and is exempt from federal and state
                                   income taxes under section 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code. the
                                   foundation is a supporting organization to the us sif and is exempt from federal
                                   and state income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
            accounting for
            uncertain tax
            positions              the organization requires that a tax position be recognized or derecognized based
                                   on a "more-likely-than-not" threshold. this applies to positions taken or expected
                                   to be taken in a tax return. the organization does not believe its consolidated
                                   financial statements include, or reflect, any uncertain tax positions.

                                   the organization's form 990, return of organization exempt from income taxes,
                                   is subject to examination by the taxing authorities generally for three years after
                                   filing.
                                                               7



30 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                        and us sif foundation
        notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)
                                                december 31, 2012

note a - organization and summary of significant accounting policies
         (continued)

cash and cash
equivalents         the organization considers as cash and cash equivalents amounts in the checking
                    and operating accounts.

property and
equipment           the organization capitalizes all property and equipment acquisitions of $3,000
                    and above. property and equipment are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair
                    market value at date of donation, if contributed. depreciation is provided on a
                    straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

functional
expense
allocation          the costs of providing various programs and other activities have been
                    summarized on a functional basis in the statement of activities. accordingly,
                    certain costs have been allocated among the programs and supporting services
                    benefited.

reclassifications   certain 2011 amounts have been reclassified for comparative purposes.

contributions       contributions are recorded in unrestricted, temporarily restricted or permanently
                    restricted net assets, depending on the existence and/or nature of any donor
                    restrictions. when a donor restriction expires, that is, when a stipulated time
                    restriction ends or purpose restriction is accomplished, temporarily restricted net
                    assets are reclassified to unrestricted net assets and reported in the statement of
                    activities as net assets released from restrictions. temporarily restricted support is
                    recorded as unrestricted support if the restriction is met in the same accounting
                    period as the support is received.
grants
receivable          grants receivable are considered to be fully receivable by management and
                    accordingly no allowance for doubtful accounts is necessary.

estimates           the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
                    principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires management
                    to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
                    liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
                    financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
                    reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates.

deferred revenue    deferred revenue consists of membership dues and sponsorship revenue received
                    in advance of the applicable calendar year or event.

prior year
information         the consolidated financial statements include certain prior year summarized
                    comparative totals as of and for the year ended december 31, 2011. such
                    information does not include sufficient detail to constitute a presentation in
                    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of
                    america. accordingly, such information should be read in conjunction with the
                    consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2011, from
                    which the summarized information was derived.
                                                 8



                                                2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 31

             us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                     and us sif foundation
                     notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)
                                                             december 31, 2012

            note b - pension plan

            the us sif maintains a 401(k) plan (the plan) for all employees of the us sif. under the terms of the
            plan, the us sif makes a safe harbor match and a discretionary contribution for employees participating
            in the plan. all employees are eligible to participate upon employment. for the year ended december 31,
            2012, the us sif made contributions of approximately $26,200 to the plan.


            note c - lease commitments

            the us sif and the foundation conduct their operations from a leased facility. the current lease expires
            on april 30, 2014. in the normal course of operations, operating leases are generally renewed or replaced
            by other leases. under the terms of the lease, the base rent increases annually based on scheduled
            increases provided for in the lease. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of
            america (gaap) all rental payments, including fixed rent increases, are recognized on a straight-line
            basis over the term of the lease.

            future minimum rental payments required under the operating lease are as follows:

                            year ending december 31,                                                        amount

                           2013                                                                             $ 77,748
                           2014 (current lease expires on april 30, 2014)                                     26,128

                           total                                                                          $ 103,876

            rent expense for the organization for the year ended december 31, 2012 was approximately $76,100.
            during 2012, the us sif entered into an office space sublease agreement with another organization and
            received rental income of approximately $10,500 under the sublease agreement. the sublease agreement
            ended as of march 31, 2013.


            note d - related party transactions

            the foundation made a subgrant of $40,000 to the milken institute and a subgrant of $85,623 to the
            initiative for responsible investment at harvard university (the initiative) under the terms of a grant it
            received from the ford foundation. a senior employee of milken institute and a senior employee of the
            initiative were board members of us sif and the foundation during 2012.


            note e - commitments

            during 2012, the us sif entered in to a contract for hotel and conference space for a 2013 conference.
            the contract contains a clause whereby the us sif is liable for liquidated damages in the event of
            cancellation based upon a percentage of the contract price determined by the length of time between the
            cancellation and the event date. management does not believe any cancellation under this contract will
            occur and result in a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.




                                                                9



32 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                        and us sif foundation
        notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)
                                                december 31, 2012

note f - concentrations

the us sif and the foundation maintain bank accounts at financial institutions which at times during the
year exceeded the federal deposit insurance corporation limit. management believes the risk in this
situation to be minimal.


note g - temporarily restricted net assets

as of december 31, 2012, the foundation's temporarily restricted net assets were available for the following
purposes:

 purpose                                                                                         amount

 addressing barriers to community development finance                                            $ 48,177
 mission in the market place - research                                                            10,000

 total temporarily restricted net assets                                                         $ 58,177

for the year ended december 31, 2012, net assets were released from donor restrictions by incurring
expenses satisfying the purpose restrictions specified by donors as follows:

 purpose                                                                                         amount

 addressing barriers to community development finance                                          $ 259,426
 understanding barriers to community investment                                                   38,304
 global sif support                                                                                5,765
 trends report - 2012                                                                             30,000

 net assets released from restrictions                                                         $ 333,495


note h - subsequent events

subsequent events were evaluated through may 19, 2013, which is the date the consolidated financial
statements were available to be issued.




                                                    10



                                                  2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 33

           to the board of directors
           us sif: the forum for sustainable and
            responsible investment and
           us sif foundation
           washington, dc



                                                independent auditor’s report
                                                on supplementary information


           we have audited the consolidated financial statements of us sif: the forum for sustainable and
           responsible investment and us sif foundation for the year ended december 31, 2012 and have issued
           our report thereon dated may 19, 2013, which contained an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
           financial statements. our audit was performed for the purpose of forming an opinion on the consolidated
           financial statements as a whole. the schedules of consolidating statement of financial position and
           consolidating statement of activities are presented for the purposes of additional analysis and are not a
           required part of the consolidated financial statements. such information is the responsibility of
           management and was derived from and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records
           used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. the information has been subjected to the auditing
           procedures applied in the audit of the consolidated financial statements and certain additional procedures,
           including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the underlying accounting and other
           records used to prepare the consolidated financial statements or to the consolidated financial statements
           themselves, and other additional procedures in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in
           the united states of america. in our opinion, the information is fairly stated in all material respects in
           relation to the consolidated financial statements as a whole.




           washington, dc
           may 19, 2013




                                                               11

34 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                        and us sif foundation
               consolidating statement of financial position
                                                december 31, 2012
                                           us sif          us sif    eliminating consolidated
                                        the forum       foundation       entries        total

assets

current assets

cash and cash equivalents                $ 398,930       $ 139,364                  $ 538,294
grants receivable                                           10,000                     10,000
due from us sif foundation                    56,473                   $ (56,473)          -0-
prepaid expenses                              51,379                                   51,379

total current assets                       506,782         149,364      (56,473)      599,673

property and equipment

computers and phone equipment                 10,410                                   10,410
accumulated depreciation
  and amortization                            (8,442)                                  (8,442)

total property and equipment                   1,968           -0-           -0-        1,968

security deposit                               5,774                                    5,774

total assets                             $ 514,524       $ 149,364     $ (56,473)   $ 607,415


liabilities and net assets

current liabilities

accounts payable and accrued expenses     $ 46,389        $ 19,825                   $ 66,214
due to us sif forum                                         56,473     $ (56,473)          -0-
deferred revenue                           172,480                                    172,480
deferred rent                                3,986                                      3,986

total current liabilities                  222,855          76,298      (56,473)      242,680

deferred rent, net of current portion          1,541                                    1,541

total liabilities                          224,396          76,298      (56,473)      244,221

net assets

unrestricted                               290,128          14,889                    305,017
temporarily restricted                                      58,177                     58,177

total net assets                           290,128          73,066           -0-      363,194

total liabilities and net assets         $ 514,524       $ 149,364     $ (56,473)   $ 607,415




                                         12



                                        2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 35

            us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                      and us sif foundation
                                   consolidating statement of activities
                                            for the year ended december 31, 2012
                                                           us sif        us sif     eliminating   consolidated
                                                        the forum     foundation        entries          total

            revenues

            membership dues                               $ 618,520     $ 90,000                     $ 708,520
            contributions                                                 31,275                        31,275
            sponsorship, other than events                   1,500       141,636                       143,136
            event related income                           352,910         1,162                       354,072
            investment income                                  785           488                         1,273
            other revenue                                   10,612         7,895                        18,507

            total revenues                                 984,327       272,456          $ -0-      1,256,783

            expenses

            salaries                                       374,228       195,134                      569,362
            employee benefits and payroll taxes             63,214        31,613                       94,827
            recruitment and training                           984           472                        1,456
            payroll and benefits administration              3,547         1,731                        5,278
            consulting                                     168,116       182,072                      350,188
            grant expense                                                125,624                      125,624
            office expenses                                 75,933        45,313                      121,246
            sif - sponsored events                         138,104           574                      138,678
            staff meals, lodging and travel                 11,000         4,455                       15,455
            financial services and fees                      7,617         5,258                       12,875
            miscellaneous                                       87         1,108                        1,195

            total expenses                                 842,830       593,354            -0-      1,436,184

            change in net assets                           141,497      (320,898)           -0-       (179,401)

            net assets, beginning of year                  148,631       393,964            -0-       542,595

            net assets, end of year                       $ 290,128     $ 73,066          $ -0-      $ 363,194




                                                            13



36 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

  gri index

in accordance with the gri’s g3 guidelines, us sif is including the following gri index to assist readers in
locating particular information on us sif pertaining to the gri’s indicators.

indicator no.             description                                     us sif disclosure

1. strategy and analysis

1.1	statement from the most senior decision-maker                        see ceo letter, pages 2-3 that applies to
     of the organization (e.g., ceo, chair, or                            information for both us sif and us sif
     equivalent senior position) about the                                foundation.
     relevance of sustainability to the organization
     and its strategy.

1.2	description of key impacts, risks, and                               us sif advances the field of sustainable
     opportunities.                                                        nd responsible investing (sri) through
                                                                          a
                                                                          several strategic approaches detailed in
                                                                          this report.

2. organizations profile

2.1                       name of the organization. 	us sif: the forum for sustainable and
                                                      responsible investment, and us sif
                                                      foundation.

2.2                       primary brands, products and/or services.	us sif is a membership association that
                                                                     provides services to its members, creates
                                                                     external knowledge of sri through research,
                                                                     media, policy engagement and professional
                                                                     education, and holds conferences and other
                                                                     types of in-person and virtual events to inform
                                                                     its members and assist them in networking.
                                                                     it conducts much of its research, program
                                                                     and public education efforts through the
                                                                     us sif foundation. also see member
                                                                     benefits on pages 22–23.

2.3	operational structure of the organization,                           see report overview and boundary on page ii.
     including main divisions, operating
     companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.

2.4                       location of the organization’s headquarters.    washington, dc, usa

2.5	number of countries where the organization                           one (united states)
     operates, and names of countries with either
     major operations or that are specifically
     relevant to the sustainability issues covered
     in the report.




                                                       2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 37

    indicator no.              description                                 us sif disclosure

   2.6                         nature of ownership and legal form.	dual non-profit 501(c)(6) membership
                                                                    association and 501(c)(3) non-profit
                                                                    organization. see page ii.

   2.7	markets served (including geographic    professionals, firms, institutions and
        breakdown, sectors served, and types of organizations engaged in sustainable
        customers/beneficiaries).	and responsible investing in the
                                                united states

   2.8	scale of reporting organization, including:                        seven full-time employees at the
        • number of employees; • net sales (for private                    end of 2012; approximately 320
        sector organizations) or net revenues                              members in 2012; see financials on
        (for public sector organizations); • total                         pages 24–36
        capitalization broken down in terms of
        debt and equity (for private sector
        organizations); and • quantity of products
        or services provided.

   2.9	significant changes during the reporting                           none
        period regarding its size, structure, or
        ownership including: • the location of,
        or changes in operations, including facility
        openings, closings, and expansions; and
        • changes in the share capital structure
        and other capital formation, maintenance,
        and alteration operations (for private
        sector organizations).

   2.10                        awards received in the reporting period.    none

   3. report parameters

   report profile

   3.1	reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for                  calendar year 2012
        information provided.

   3.2	date of most recent previous report (if any).	us sif produced its most recent gri report
                                                       for calendar year 2011. it produced its first
                                                       gri report for calendar year 2009 and its
                                                       second gri report in 2010.

   3.3                         reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.).   annual

   3.4	contact point for questions regarding the megan smith
        report or its contents.	public affairs and events assistant
                                                  us sif
                                                  910 17th st. nw, suite 1000
                                                  washington, dc 20006
                                                  t: (202) 747-7820
                                                  f: (202) 775-8686
                                                  msmith@ussif.org




38 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.         description                               us sif disclosure

report scope and boundary

3.5	process for defining report content, including:            staff review
     • determining materiality; •prioritizing topics
     within the report; and •identifying stakeholders
     the organization expects to use the report.

3.6	boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, entire organization
     subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures,
     suppliers). see gri boundary protocol for
     further guidance.

3.7	state any specific limitations on the scope                not applicable
     or boundary of the report.

3.8	basis for reporting on joint ventures,                     not applicable
     subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced
     operations, and other entities that can
     significantly affect comparability from period
     to period and/or between organizations.

3.9	data measurement techniques and the bases    us sif used guidelines and tools
     of calculations, including assumptions and   from the greenhouse gas protocol
     techniques underlying estimations applied to developed by the world resource
     the compilation of the indicators and other  institute and the world business
     information in the report.	council for sustainable development to
                                                  calculate its carbon footprint.

3.10	explanation of the effect of any restatements             none
      of information provided in earlier reports,
      and the reasons for such restatement
      (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base
      years/periods, nature of business
      measurement methods).

3.11	significant changes from previous reporting               none
      periods in the scope, boundary, or
      measurement methods applied in the report.

3.12	table identifying the location of the standard            this gri index
      disclosures in the report.

assurance

3.13	policy and current practice with regard to      us sif plans to submit its annual
      seeking external assurance for the report.      report to gri to verify its reporting
      if not included in the assurance report         level. the financial information
      accompanying the sustainability report,         presented on pages 24–36 was explain the
      scope and basis of any external                 audited by an independent
      assurance provided. also explain the            accounting firm. us sif at this
      relationship between the reporting organization time does not have plans to submit
      and the assurance provider(s).	the other portions of the report for
                                                      independent verification.




                                             2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 39

    indicator no.              description                            us sif disclosure

   4. governance, commitments and engagement

   governance

   4.1	governance structure of the organization,                     see governance section of this
        including committees under the highest                        report on pages 4–7.
        governance body responsible for specific
        tasks, such as setting strategy or
        organizational oversight.

   4.2	indicate whether the chair of the highest                     us sif separates it chair and
        governance body is also an executive officer                  ceo positions.
        (and, if so, their function within the
        organization’s management and the
        reasons for this arrangement).

   4.3	for organizations that have a unitary board                   see governance section of this
        structure, state the number of members of                     report on pages 4–7.
        the highest governance body that are
        independent and/or non-executive members.

   4.4	mechanisms for shareholders and employees  us sif does not have shareholders.
        to provide recommendations or direction to us sif members and staff have
        the highest governance body.	the ability to make recommendations to board
                                                   members. us sif also holds an annual,
                                                   in-person meeting for its board directors,
                                                   members and staff, and members elect the
                                                   board. (see board practices on pages 4-7).

   4.5	linkage between compensation for members                      us sif’s board directors are not
        of the highest governance body, senior                        compensated. the ceo’s
        managers, and executives (including departure                 compensation is approved by the
        arrangements), and the organization’s                         board and is tied closely to the
        performance (including social and                             organization meeting its strategic
        environmental performance).                                   goals, which are outlined on page 8.

   4.6	processes in place for the highest governance      the board has a conflict of interest
        body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.	policy that is available to the public upon
                                                           request.

   4.7	process for determining the qualifications                    see governance section of this
        and expertise of the members of the                           report on pages 4–7.
        highest governance body for guiding the
        organization’s strategy on economic,
        environmental, and social topics.

   4.8	internally developed statements of mission or see the policies and practices
        values, codes of conduct, and principles      section of this report on pages
        relevant to economic, environmental, and      20–23. see also the letter from the social
        performance and the status of their           ceo and us sif chair for us sif’s
        implementation.	mission statement and vision, along with its
                                                      five strategic goals for 2010 through 2012 on
                                                      page 8.




40 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.          description                                us sif disclosure

4.9	procedures of the highest governance body                    see governance section of this
     for overseeing the organization’s identification             report on pages 4–7.
     and management of economic, environmental,
     and social performance, including relevant
     risks and opportunities, and adherence or
     compliance with internationally agreed
     standards, codes of conduct, and principles.

4.10	processes for evaluating the highest                        see governance section of this
      governance body’s own performance,                          report on pages 4–7.
      particularly with respect to economic,
      environmental, and social performance.

commitments to external initiatives

4.11	explanation of whether and how the                          not applicable
      precautionary approach or principle is
      addressed by the organization.

4.12	externally developed economic, environmental, while not a signatory to other
      and social charters, principles, or other        initiatives, us sif frequently works
      initiatives to which the organization subscribes in partnership with other members
      or endorses.	of the global sustainable investment
                                                       alliance, as well as ceres, the interfaith
                                                       center on corporate responsibility, the
                                                       investor network on climate risk and the un
                                                       principles for responsible investment. us
                                                       sif also has coordinated policy work with
                                                       american for financial reform, corporate
                                                       reform coalition, the council of institutional
                                                       investors and other organizations.

4.13	memberships in associations (such as                        see above. note that while us sif is
      industry associations) and/or national/                     involved in the above organizations
      international advocacy organizations in                     and participates in several of their
      which the organization: • has positions in                  initiatives, it does not have positions
      governance bodies; • participates in projects               on their governance bodies.
      or committees; • provides substantive funding
      beyond routine membership dues;
      • views membership as strategic.




                                               2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 41

    indicator no.              description                            us sif disclosure

   stakeholder engagement

   4.14	list of stakeholder groups engaged by the us sif’s primary stakeholders are its
         organization.	members. a list of members is available at
                                                   http://www.ussif.org/af_memberdirectory.
                                                   asp.

                                                                      us sif’s other primary stakeholders are its
                                                                      employees. us sif staff set goals for the
                                                                      year and are evaluated against those goals.
                                                                      the board regularly evaluates the ceo’s
                                                                      performance. staff is welcome to report
                                                                      recommendations and concerns to the
                                                                      board, too.

                                                                      us sif also conducts policy work in
                                                                      washington, dc, and therefore regularly
                                                                      meets with members of congress and their
                                                                      staffs, in addition to officials of several
                                                                      regulatory organizations within the us
                                                                      government, including the environmental
                                                                      protection agency, the department of
                                                                      labor and the securities and exchange
                                                                      commission.

   4.15	basis for identification and selection of members: us sif is a membership
         stakeholders with whom to engage.	association and its mission, strategy and
                                                   operating plans are largely developed
                                                   in consultation the board. members—
                                                   through their dues and sponsorship of key
                                                   programs—provide a significant portion of
                                                   us sif’s annual revenues.

                                                                      employees: us sif would not be able to
                                                                      fulfill its mission, strategic objectives and
                                                                      operating plan without its employees.

                                                                      legislators and regulators: in order to
                                                                      advance responsible investing practices, it is
                                                                      necessary at times to advocate for legislative
                                                                      and regulatory changes, and to educate
                                                                      policymakers on these issues.

   4.16	approaches to stakeholder engagement,           us sif engages all of its members through
         including frequency of engagement by type       its communications, including electronic
         and by stakeholder group. also please indicate  discussion groups and reports, as well as
         the principles formulated at corporate level    events, including teleconferences,
         that guide your company’s stakeholder           conferences and member receptions.
         engagement at site level. please attach/provide us sif also holds an annual in-person
         supporting documents or indicate website.	meeting for its members and surveys its
                                                         members periodically on their evaluation of
                                                         us sif’s services and priorities. see also
                                                         comments related to 4.14 above.




42 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.          description                                us sif disclosure

4.17	key topics and concerns that have been      us sif’s staff and members, through
      raised through stakeholder engagement,      participation in various committees
      and how the organization has responded      and working groups, and by
      to those key topics and concerns, including responding to member surveys,
      through its reporting.	can identify and work on key topics and
                                                  initiatives. for example, in 2012, due to
                                                  an increasing demand for sri education
                                                  for the financial industry, us sif created a
                                                  professional course development committee
                                                  to help advise on the creation of online
                                                  courses.

management approach and performance indicators

economic

economic disclosure on management approach

ec	disclosure on management approach us sif is a membership organization
    provide a concise disclosure on the      that represents professionals, firms,
    management approach items outlined below institutions and organizations the with
    reference to following economic aspects: engaged in sustainable and
    • economic performance;                  responsible investing in the united
    •market presence; and                    states. it measures its economic
    •indirect economic impacts.	performance in part by the number of
                                             members it has, the dues it collects each
                                             year and its financial position at year end.
                                             a summary of these dues is reviewed in
                                             the financial section of this report on
                                             pages 24–36.

economic performance indicators

aspect: economic performance

ec1	direct economic value generated and                          see financials on pages 24–36.
     distributed, including revenues, operating
     costs, employee compensation, donations
     and other community investments,
     retained earnings, and payments to capital
     providers and governments.

ec2	financial implications and other risks and      us sif believes climate change is
     opportunities for the organization’s activities a considerable risk for its operations
     due to climate change.	and the planet. it is trying to limit its own
                                                     carbon footprint, while advocating for
                                                     constructive climate change and energy
                                                     legislation on capitol hill as well as regulatory
                                                     changes.

ec3	coverage of the organization’s defined see financials pages 24–36 and
     benefit plan obligations.	policies and practices on pages 20–23.
                                            us sif does not have a defined benefit plan.
                                            it operates a 401(k) defined contribution plan
                                            for its employees, as noted on page 22.




                                               2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 43

    indicator no.              description                            us sif disclosure

   ec4	significant financial assistance received                     none
        from government.

   aspect: market presence

   ec5	range of ratios of standard entry level the federal minimum wage in the
        wage compared to local minimum wage     united states is $7.25, and the minimum
        at significant locations of operation.	wage in washington, dc, where all of
                                                us sif’s employees work, is $8.25. based
                                                on a 40-hour workweek, us sif’s lowest paid
                                                employee earns significantly greater than
                                                double the minimum wage.

   ec6	policy, practices, and proportion of spending us sif taps local suppliers for it
        on locally-based suppliers at significant     projects and for catering local locations of
        operation.	events. in addition, it contracts for catering
                                                      and other services for events outside of
                                                      the washington metropolitan area. it also
                                                      contracts with a membership consultant
                                                      based in new york. in 2012, us sif
                                                      contracted with a public relations and
                                                      communications firm and a government
                                                      relations firm in washington dc and an
                                                      it firm in virginia. the us sif foundation
                                                      contracted with a research firm in new york
                                                      and a research consultant in massachusetts.
                                                      in 2012, us sif also purchased computer
                                                      equipment from texas-based dell and
                                                      office supplies from quill, which is based
                                                      in philadelphia. us sif does not have
                                                      official policies in this area, although it looks
                                                      for responsible suppliers that embrace
                                                      sustainability practices. it also does not have
                                                      an estimate for the percentage of its spending
                                                      with local, washington metropolitan area
                                                      businesses.

   ec7	procedures for local hiring and proportion        all us sif staff lived in the washington
        of senior management hired from the local         metropolitan area before they were hired,
        community at significant locations of operation.	although us sif has no rules restricting its
                                                          geographic area for recruiting.

   aspect: indirect economic impacts

   ec8	development and impact of infrastructure                      not applicable
        investments and services provided primarily
        for public benefit through commercial,
        in-kind, or pro bono engagement.




44 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.          description                                      us sif disclosure

ec9	understanding and describing significant        us sif and us sif foundation jointly spent
     indirect economic impacts, including the extent $664,189 on salaries, benefits and payroll
     of impacts.	taxes in 2012, their greatest economic
                                                     impact. they also paid $350,188 to
                                                     consultants for a range of services in 2012.
                                                     us sif has not applied a multiplier effect to
                                                     calculate the true economic impact of this
                                                     spending. it is investigating methods for
                                                     2013.

environmental

environmental disclosure on management approach

en	disclosure on management approach                                   see discussion on policies and practices on
    provide a concise disclosure on the                                 pages 20–23.
    management approach items outlined
    below with reference to the following
    environmental aspects:
    • materials;
    • energy;
    • water;
    • biodiversity;
    • emissions, effluents, and waste;
    • products and services;
    • compliance;
    • transport; and
    • overall.

environmental performance indicators

en1	materials used by weight or volume. see                            us sif and us sif foundation jointly used
     indicator protocol for guidance on calculation.                    approximately 160 reams of paper in 2012.

en2	percentage of materials used that are 100 percent of the paper used at us sif
     recycled input materials.	contains recycled content. us sif also
                                           recycles all paper, toner cartridges and
                                           electronic equipment.

aspect: energy

en3	direct energy consumption by primary                               none
     energy source.

en4                    indirect energy consumption by primary source.   electricity: 172.31400 gigajoules

en5	energy saved due to conservation and it is us sif office procedure to turn off all
     efficiency improvements.	lights and non-dedicated server computer
                                          equipment every evening. us sif’s offices
                                          use fluorescent and compact-fluorescent
                                          bulbs to conserve energy, and the building
                                          owner, us sif member self-help, has
                                          undertaken several other energy conservation
                                          initiatives, including placing motion detectors
                                          on lights in many common areas.




                                                   2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 45

    indicator no.              description                            us sif disclosure

   en6	initiatives to provide energy-efficient or                    none
        renewable energy-based products and
        services, and reductions in energy requirements
        as a result of these initiatives.

   en7	initiatives to reduce indirect energy                         see above.
        consumption and reductions achieved.

   aspect: water

   en8                         total water withdrawal by source.      not material

   en9	water sources significantly affected by                       not material
        withdrawal of water.

   en10	percentage and total volume of water                         not material
         recycled and reused.

   aspect: biodiversity

   en11	location and size of land owned, leased,                     none
         managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas
         and areas of high biodiversity value outside
         protected areas.

   en12	description of significant impacts of activities,            none
         products, and services on biodiversity in
         protected areas and areas of high biodiversity
         value outside protected areas.

   en13                        habitats protected or restored.        none

   en14	strategies, current actions, and future plans                none
         for managing impacts on biodiversity.

   en15	number of iucn red list species and national         none
         conservation list species with habitats in areas
         affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.

   aspect: emissions, effluents and waste

   en16	total direct and indirect greenhouse gas based on our calculations and assumptions,
         emissions by weight.	us sif’s and us sif foundation’s combined
                                                  carbon footprint is the equivalent of 14.074
                                                  metric tons of co2-e.

   en17	other relevant indirect greenhouse gas                       not applicable
         emissions by weight.




46 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.          description                                      us sif disclosure

en18	initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions us sif staff strives to conserve energy
      and reductions achieved.	and reduce consumption of paper products.
                                                     us sif’s conference programs also seek
                                                     environmentally responsible venues. us sif
                                                     participates in the washington metropolitan
                                                     area transit authorities’ smart benefits
                                                     program to encourage its staff to use public
                                                     transportation, and us sif staff all rode
                                                     public transportation to work or walked in
                                                     2012. (also see policies and practices on
                                                     pages 20–23.)

en19	emissions of ozone-depleting substances                           none
      by weight.

en20	nox, sox, and other significant air emissions                     none
      by type and weight.

en21	total water discharge by quality and destination.                 none

en22	total weight of waste by type and disposal not calculated, although information on paper
      method.	use and an estimate of us sif’s carbon
                                                 footprint is offered in policies and practices
                                                 section of this report on pages 20–23.

en23                   total number and volume of significant spills.   none

en24	weight of transported, imported, exported, or                     none
      treated waste deemed hazardous under the
      terms of the basel convention annex i, ii, iii,
      and viii, and percentage of transported waste
      shipped internationally.

en25	identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity                none
      value of water bodies and related habitats
      significantly affected by the reporting
      organization’s discharges of water and runoff.

aspect: products and services

en26	initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts all of us sif’s marketing and member
      of products and services, and extent of       materials, if printed at all, were done so on
      impact mitigation.	paper containing at least 30 percent
                                                    recycled content.

en27	percentage of products sold and their  us sif sells reports from time to time. us sif
      packaging materials that are reclaimed encourages recycling, but it does not track
      by category.	the percentage of its printed reports or
                                             promotional materials recycled by end users.

aspect: compliance

en28	monetary value of significant fines and total                     $0
      number of non-monetary sanctions/convictions
      for non-compliance with environmental laws
      and regulations.



                                                     2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 47

    indicator no.              description                            us sif disclosure

   aspect: transport

   en29	significant environmental impacts of                         none
         transporting products and other goods
         and materials used for the organization’s
         operations, and transporting members
         of the workforce.

   aspect: overall

   en30	total environmental protection expenditures                  $0
         and investments by type.

   labor

   labor disclosure on management approach

   la disclosure on management approach                               us sif supports the ilo’s core conventions
   	provide a concise disclosure on the following                    as enshrined in the ilo’s fundamental
      management approach items with reference to                     principles and rights at work. also, see
      the labor aspects listed below. the ilo                         organizational policies and practices on
      tripartite declaration concerning                               pages 20–23.
      multinational enterprises and social policy
      (in particular the eight core conventions of
      the ilo) and the organization for economic
      co-operation and development guidelines
      for multinational enterprises, should be the
      primary reference points.
      • employment;
      • labor/management relations;
      • occupational health and safety;
      • training and education; and
      • diversity and equal opportunity.

   labor practices and decent work performance indicators

   aspect: employment

   la1	total workforce by employment type, seven full-time employees in
        employment contract, and region.	washington, dc, performing administrative,
                                            managerial, research, writing and policy work.

   la2	total number and rate of employee turnover no employees left us sif in 2012. all
        by age group, gender, and region.	employees were based in the washington,
                                                   dc metro area. us sif had one male and
                                                   six female employees. at the end of 2012,
                                                   two employees were 20 to 29 years of age,
                                                   two were 30 to 39 years of age, one was
                                                   40 to 49 years of age, and two were 50 to 59
                                                   years of age.

   la3	benefits provided to full-time employees   us sif did not have part-time or temporary
        that are not provided to temporary or      employees in 2012. employer-subsidized
        part-time employees, by major operations.	health, disability and dental insurance
                                                   benefits are available to all employees who
                                                   work at least 30 hours a week.



48 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.          description                                us sif disclosure

aspect: labor/management relations

la4	percentage of employees covered by                           0 percent
     collective bargaining agreements.

la5	minimum notice period(s) regarding                           us sif does not have a policy addressing
     significant operational changes, including                   significant operational changes for
     whether it is specified in collective agreements.            employees.

aspect: occupational health and safety

la6	percentage of total workforce represented in                 0 percent
     formal joint management-worker health and
     safety committees that help monitor and
     advise on occupational health and safety
     programs.

la7	rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost                 us sif had no work-related accidents,
     days, and absenteeism, and total number of                   injuries or fatalities in 2012.
     work-related fatalities by region. please include
     industry benchmarks, if available, in additional
     comments.

la8	education, training, counseling, prevention,    none
     and risk-control programs in place to assist
     workforce members, their families, or community
     members regarding serious diseases.

la9	health and safety topics covered in formal                   not applicable
     agreements with trade unions.

aspect: training and education

la10	average hours of training per year per employee senior us sif staff train and mentor junior
      by employee category.	staff weekly. staff members, from time to
                                                      time, are given the opportunity to attend
                                                      conferences, classes and other types of
                                                      trainings to enhance their professional
                                                      development. staff goals include a query
                                                      about professional growth. both senior and
                                                      junior staff average 5 hours per employee per
                                                      year in training as defined by gri.

la11	programs for skills management and lifelong       us sif staff undergo annual reviews and set
      learning that support the continued employability goals for each year that are regularly
      of employees and assist them in managing          monitored, including goals that will help them
      career endings.	advance professionally. in march 2012, us
                                                        sif developed a sabbatical leave policy
                                                        offering employees the opportunity to apply
                                                        for a one to three week sabbatical following
                                                        5 years of continuous full-time service, with
                                                        full salary and benefits.

la12	percentage of employees receiving regular                   100 percent
      performance and career development reviews.




                                               2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 49

   indicator no.               description                            us sif disclosure

   aspect: diversity and equal opportunity

   la13	composition of governance bodies and           board: 6 white women, 1 black or african-
         breakdown of employees per category            american woman, 1 african-american man
         according to gender, age group, minority group and 9 white men at the end of 2012.
         membership, and other indicators of diversity.
         	staff: 4 white women, 2 asian women and
                                                        1 african-american man at the end of 2012.
                                                        see la2 for age data on staff.

   la14	ratio of basic salary of women to men by                     1:1
         employee category.

   human rights

   human rights disclosure on management approach

   hr	disclosure on management approach                              us sif supports the ilo’s core conventions
       provide a concise disclosure on the following                  as enshrined in the ilo’s fundamental
       management approach items with reference                       principles and rights at work. in addition,
       to the human rights aspects listed below.                      us sif’s indigenous peoples working group
       the ilo tripartite declaration concerning                      promotes indigenous peoples’ rights. also
       multinational enterprises and social policy                    see organizational policies and practices on
       (in particular the eight core conventions of the               pages 20–23.
       ilo which consist of conventions 100, 111, 87,
       98, 138, 182, 20 and 1059), and the organization
       for economic cooperation and development
       guidelines for multinational enterprises should
       be the primary reference points.
       • investment and procurement practices;
       • non-discrimination;
       • freedom of association and
         collective bargaining;
       • abolition of child labor;
       • prevention of forced and compulsory labor;
       • complaints and grievance practices;
       • security practices; and
       • indigenous rights.

   human rights performance indicators

   aspect: investment and procurement practices

   hr1	percentage and total number of significant                    not applicable
        investment agreements that include human
        rights clauses or that have undergone
        human rights screening.

   hr2	percentage of significant suppliers and   none, although us sif management
        contractors that have undergone screening considers potential suppliers’ labor and
        on human rights and actions taken.	human rights policies and practices when
                                                  making purchasing decisions.

   hr3	total hours of employee training on policies                  zero
        and procedures concerning aspects of human
        rights that are relevant to operations, including
        the percentage of employees trained.


50 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.           description                                us sif disclosure

aspect: non-discrimination

hr4	total number of incidents of discrimination                   zero
     and actions taken.

aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining

hr5	operations identified in which the right to                   none
     exercise freedom of association and
     collective bargaining may be at significant
     risk, and actions taken to support these rights.

aspect: child labor

hr6	operations identified as having significant risk              none
     for incidents of child labor, and measures
     taken to contribute to the elimination of
     child labor.

aspect: forced and compulsory labor

hr7	operations identified as having significant                   none
     risk for incidents of forced or compulsory
     labor, and measures taken to contribute to
     the elimination of forced or compulsory labor.

aspect: security practices

hr8	percentage of security personnel trained in                   none
     the organization’s policies or procedures
     concerning aspects of human rights that
     are relevant to operations.

aspect: indigenous rights

hr9	total number of incidents of violations                       none
     involving rights of indigenous people and
     actions taken.

society

society disclosure on management approach

so	disclosure on management approach us sif advocates for sustainable and
    provide a concise disclosure on the following responsible investment. us sif members
    management approach items with reference      integrate environmental, social or governance
    to the society aspects:                       criteria into their investment approaches,
    • community;                                  and these policies and practices are
    • corruption;                                 highlighted on us sif’s website. us sif also
    • public policy;                              takes a sustainable approach to its own
    • anti-competitive behavior; and              operations. see the policies and practices
    • compliance.	portion of this report on pages 20–23 for
                                                  more information.




                                                2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 51

   indicator no.               description                            us sif disclosure

   society performance indicators

   aspect: community

   so1	nature, scope, and effectiveness of any                       none
        programs and practices that assess and
        manage the impacts of operations on
        communities, including entering,
        operating, and exiting.

   aspect: corruption

   so2	percentage and total number of business          during 2013, us sif engaged an outside
        units analyzed for risks related to corruption.	accounting firm to audit its financial books
                                                         for 2012. the report of that audit is found on
                                                         pages 24–36 of this report.

   so3	percentage of employees trained in                            us sif has a system of internal financial
        organization’s anti-corruption policies and                   controls in which it trains pertinent
        procedures.                                                   employees.

   so4	actions taken in response to incidents                        none, as no such incidents took place.
        of corruption.

   aspect: public policy

   so5	public policy positions and participation in see the public policy portion of this report on
        public policy development and lobbying.	pages 14–15. comment letters on policy
                                                     issues written by us sif and sent to various
                                                     bodies are available on the public side of our
                                                     website at http://www.ussif.org/policyletters.
                                                     us sif’s process for determining public
                                                     policy positions is available to its members
                                                     on the members-only portion of its website.

   so6	total value of financial and in-kind contributions            $0
        to political parties, politicians, and related
        institutions by country.

   aspect: anti-competitive behavior

   so7	total number of legal actions for anti-competitive zero
        behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices
        and their outcomes.

   aspect: compliance

   s08	monetary value of significant fines and total                 $0
        number of non-monetary sanctions for
        non-compliance with laws and regulations
        (e.g. human rights).




52 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.          description                                 us sif disclosure

product responsibility

product responsibility disclosure on management approach

pr	disclosure on management approach                              us sif does not have any formal policies
    provide a concise disclosure on the following                  in this area. it protects its members’
    management approach items with reference                       information by keeping it on a secure server,
    to the product responsibility aspects:                         and does not sell this information to third
    • customer health and safety;                                  parties. however information about our
    • product and service labeling;                                members is publicly available.
    • marketing communications;
    • customer privacy; and
    • compliance.

product responsibility performance indicators

aspect: customer health and safety

pr1	life cycle stages in which health and                         when producing publications, us sif takes
     safety impacts of products and services                       into account recycled content of paper to are
     assessed for improvement, and                                 be used and the use of environmentally
     percentage of significant products and                        friendly inks.
     services categories subject to such
     procedures.

pr2	total number of incidents of non-compliance                   none
     with regulations and voluntary codes
     concerning health and safety impacts of
     products and services, by type of outcomes.

aspect: product and service labeling

pr3	type of product and service information                       none
     required by procedures, and percentage
     of significant products and services subject
     to such information requirements.

pr4	total number of incidents of non-compliance     none
     with regulations and voluntary codes concerning
     product and service information and labeling,
     by type of outcomes.

pr5	practices related to customer satisfaction, us sif elicits input from its members through
     including results of surveys measuring      its electronic discussion groups and at its
     customer satisfaction.	in-person annual meeting. it also sought
                                                 the feedback of attendees from its in-person
                                                 working group meetings through an online
                                                 survey and sent out an evaluation survey for
                                                 its annual conference. additionally, us sif
                                                 sought input from members on its strategic
                                                 goals for 2013–2015.




                                                2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 53

   indicator no.               description                            us sif disclosure

   aspect: marketing communications

   pr6	programs for adherence to laws, standards,                    none
        and voluntary codes related to marketing
        communications, including advertising,
        promotion, and sponsorship.

   pr7	total number of incidents of non-compliance                   not applicable
        with regulations and voluntary codes
        concerning marketing communications,
        including advertising, promotion, and
        sponsorship, by type of outcomes.

   aspect: customer privacy

   pr8	total number of substantiated complaints                      zero
        regarding breaches of customer privacy
        and losses of customer data.

   aspect: compliance

   pr9	monetary value of significant fines for                       $0
        non-compliance with laws and regulations
        concerning the provision and use of products
        and services.

   sector supplement indicators for non-governmental organizations

   ngoss1	involvement of affected stakeholder        members have input into us sif’s policies
           groups, (as per the organization’s mission and programs through several channels:
           statement), in the design, implementation, board representation, annual in-person
           monitoring and evaluation of policies      meeting, periodic surveys on events and
           and programs.	other priorities, and contacting us sif staff
                                                      directly. see the governance section of this
                                                      report on pages 4–7 for more information on
                                                      the representation of key member groups on
                                                      the board.

   ngoss2	feedback and complaints mechanism in           as mentioned earlier, us sif elicits feedback
           relation to programs and policies and          from its members through its electronic
           responsive actions taken, including self-noted discussion groups, annual meeting and
           breaches of policies.	occasional surveys. as a result of this input,
                                                          us sif’s board approved five strategic goals
                                                          for the organization as part of a strategic plan
                                                          for 2010–2012, which is implemented through
                                                          an annual operating plan. the strategic plan
                                                          is available to members through us sif’s
                                                          member center, and a review of progress to
                                                          date on this plan is the focus of the annual
                                                          report. also, us sif sought and received
                                                          feedback in 2012 on the 2013–2015
                                                          strategic plan.




54 2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.          description                                us sif disclosure

ngoss3	system for program monitoring and evaluation, us sif staff undertakes an annual review of
        (including measuring program effectiveness    its programs to evaluate their effectiveness in
        and impact), learning, how the organization   helping us sif achieve its strategic
        changes its program as a result and how it    operational goals for each year. this report is
        reports on this.	delivered to the board once a year, along
                                                      with presentations from the ceo, deputy
                                                      director and director of research, and the
                                                      director of programs.

ngoss4	measures in place to ensure due attention to    as mentioned earlier, us sif has a
        gender and diversity is integrated into program board diversity policy. us sif has a board
        design and implementation, as well as in the    recruitment document that prioritizes
        monitoring, evaluation and learning cycle.	diversity. additionally, in 2012, us sif
                                                        created a diversity task force to help
                                                        members promote and advance diversity and
                                                        inclusion in the financial services industry.

ngoss5	process to formulate, communicate, implement              us sif’s board and policy committee approve
        and change your advocacy positions and public             us sif policy priorities and positions.
        awareness campaigns.

ngoss6	processes to take into account and coordinate us sif’s staff, and at times its board and
        with the activities of other actors.	policy committee, approve us sif’s
                                                      coordination of activities with other
                                                      organizations.

ngoss7	list standards used for tracking and us sif’s accounting systems ensure that it
        allocating resources. 	allocates funding to the proper pools and
                                             programs.

ngoss8	breakdown of funding received by source,                  see financial section of this report on pages
        including listing of 5 largest 1 individual               24–36.
        donations.

ngoss9	mechanisms for workforce feedback and      as mentioned earlier, all us sif staff undergo
        complaints, including number of complaints annual reviews and set goals with their
        received and their resolution.	supervisor, which are monitored throughout
                                                   the year. in the case of the ceo, us sif’s
                                                   board reviews the ceo’s performance and
                                                   goals annually. the board also sets goals for
                                                   itself and reviews those regularly. us sif has
                                                   a board-approved personnel handbook with
                                                   a grievance policy included. no grievances
                                                   were filed in 2012.




                                               2012 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 55



910 17th street, nw, suite 1000
    washington, dc 20006
 202-872-5361 • www.ussif.org
