        annual report
us sif and us sif foundation




                 2013

about us sif and the us sif foundation
us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment (us sif) is the us membership association
for professionals, firms, institutions and organizations engaged in sustainable and responsible investing (sri).
us sif and its members advance investment practices that consider environmental, social and corporate
governance criteria to generate long-term competitive financial returns and positive societal impact.

our vision is a world in which investment capital helps build a sustainable and equitable economy.

us sif’s members include investment management and advisory firms, mutual fund companies, research firms,
financial planners and advisors, broker-dealers, community investing institutions, non-profit associations, and
pension funds, foundations and other asset owners. us sif is a 501(c)(6) organization.

the us sif foundation is a 501(c)(3) organization. the objective and purpose of the foundation is to support
the activities and purpose of us sif, its sole member, by assuming the responsibilities for, and the management
of, certain educational, research and programmatic activities.

about this report
this annual report covers the 2013 calendar year, which also correlates to the fiscal year for us sif and the us
sif foundation.

as part of our commitment to broad-based sustainability in the financial markets and within our organizations,
this annual report is an integrated report, incorporating sustainability and financial metrics based on the global
reporting initiative (gri). for the purposes of the gri, this report is a self-declared a-level gri report completed
in accordance with the gri’s third generation g3 guidelines and gri’s sector supplement for non-governmental
organizations. us sif and the us sif foundation’s 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010 reports have received an a
level application check by the gri. more information about gri and the application levels is available at www.
globalreporting.org. a complete gri index appears at the end of this report.

we would like to hear what you think about this report. please direct comments and questions to alya kayal,
director of policy and programs, at akayal@ussif.org or megan smith, public affairs and events associate, at
msmith@ussif.org.

contact us
us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment and the us sif foundation
1660 l street, nw
suite 306
washington, dc 20036
p +1 202-872-5361
f +1 202-775-8686
website: www.ussif.org
twitter: www.twitter.com/followussif
facebook: www.facebook.com/followussif




ii 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

                                                                                          table of contents

message from the ceo and chair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
governance structure & accountability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
2013–2015 strategic plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10


our work
research & resources
us sif. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
us sif foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

events & media
us sif. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
us sif foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15

public policy & advocacy
us sif.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

working groups
us sif. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
us sif foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

professional education
us sif foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

our commitment to sustainability
policies & practices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24


financials
2013 audited financials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28


global reporting initiative
gri index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
gri statement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60




                                                                            2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 1


                   message from the ceo and chair


this annual report reflects the accomplishments of us sif and the us sif
foundation in 2013. the report details our financial performance as well as
our member services and initiatives, including research, policy, education              lisa n. woll      paul hilton
and training.                                                                               ceo           board chair


us sif and the us sif foundation had a positive financial year. on a consolidated basis, membership dues
remained the primary source of revenue; additional sources were event revenue and grants and donations.
us sif and the us sif foundation saw total net assets grow from $363,194 at the start of the year to
$446,214 at the close. us sif welcomed 69 new members and ended the year with 304 members in total.

in 2013, the us sif foundation launched the center for sustainable investment education to serve the
growing need of us investment professionals to gain expertise in sustainable, responsible and impact
investment (sri). the center provides education, research and thought leadership to investors and other
stakeholders. the us sif foundation also launched its inaugural online course, fundamentals of sustainable
and responsible investment, and held two live trainings of it, one at its annual conference.

in may, us sif held its third annual conference, finance for a sustainable future. the event, held in
chicago, drew over 315 attendees and featured presentations from former senator russ feingold,
350.org founder bill mckibben, chris jochnick, oxfam america’s director of private sector engagement,
and other thought leaders.

over the course of the year, the us sif foundation released two reports: expanding the market for
community investment in the united states and the impact of sustainable and responsible investment.
it also issued guides for retail and institutional investors on investing to curb climate change. all of these
publications are available free of charge on our website for investors and the general public.

in 2013, us sif worked to advance six key public policy issues:
       • requirements that companies disclose their political contributions,
       • improved corporate disclosure of environmental, social and governance (esg) issues,
       • an sri option for federal employees’ retirement plans,
       • actions to curb climate change,
       • improvements in erisa fiduciary duty guidance on sri, and
       • funding and regulatory support for community investing.

activities included a climate hill day in collaboration with the investor network on climate risk and providing
comments to the securities and exchange commission on rulemaking required by the dodd-frank wall
street financial reform and consumer protection act of 2010.

throughout the year, us sif engaged media outlets and employed social media to advance sustainable and
responsible investing and to promote our publications and other initiatives. our following on twitter and
facebook grew by 82 percent and 49 percent respectively, and we received coverage in a range of outlets,
including bloomberg, blue & green tomorrow, financial advisor magazine, motley fool and triple pundit.


                                                       2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 3

us sif continued to support members’ professional interests through four working groups focused on
community investing, indigenous peoples, international issues, and sustainable investment research and
analysis.

we thank our members for their support during 2013 and are excited for the year ahead. we also thank the
members of the board for their service. in particular, we thank michael lent, the chair of the us sif board
from 2001 to 2013.

sincerely,




lisa n. woll, ceo




paul hilton, board chair




4 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

      governance structure & accountability


the us sif and us sif foundation boards of directors manage and control the affairs and property of the
organizations, including setting organizational policies, adopting the annual budget, and evaluating the chief
executive officer. the boards of the two organizations are identical, except that that each has a different chair.
in 2013, the chair of us sif was michael lent; the chair of the us sif foundation was betsy zeidman. the
governance of us sif is described below.

board size and elections: us sif’s board size is limited to 17 directors, of whom 12 are elected at
large by and from the membership. in addition, the board may appoint up to four directors from among
the membership to provide diversity relative to gender, race and ethnicity, expertise, industry network,
geographical representation, or for any other purpose. if a director steps down before her term is complete, a
replacement may be appointed by a majority vote of the board of directors to serve out the term. one director
seat is automatically assigned to us sif’s ceo, although it is a non-voting seat.

term length and limits: the term of a director is three years. at-large directors and appointed directors
are limited to two consecutive full terms of service, at which time they must cycle off the board. after a
minimum of one year’s absence, an ex-director is once again eligible to serve on the board and may run for
election as an at-large director or fill one of the four appointed director seats.

classified board: the at-large directors are elected in three, staggered-term classes. the board must
include, either by election or appointment, at least one director from each of the membership categories in
effect on the date of the election of at-large directors. the number of at-large and appointed directors may
be changed by an amendment of the organization’s by-laws. however, no such amendment may reduce the
term of any director then in office.

executive committee: there are at least four executive members of the board who, with the ceo,
comprise the board’s executive committee. the chair is the principal officer of us sif and presides at all
meetings of the board of directors and the executive committee. the chair exercises general charge and
supervision of the affairs of the organization, subject to the control of the board. the vice-chair performs the
duty of the chair at the request of the chair or in the event of the chair’s absence or disability. (the bylaws
provide the ability for the board to name additional officers, and for several years, the board named a second
vice-chair.) the secretary has general responsibility for us sif’s books, board documents, policies and
minutes of board meetings, while the treasurer has general responsibility for us sif’s funds, financial records,
property and securities.

board diversity: in creating the slate for elected positions and in appointing directors, the board and
its nominating committee seek to diversify the board in terms of gender, race, religion, ethnic origin, sexual
orientation, geographic representation and business focus within the field of sustainable investing.

director compensation: directors are not compensated for their time and are only reimbursed for
expenses if approved by a majority vote of the board.

separation of chair and ceo: the ceo is prohibited from serving as the chair of the board.




                                                       2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 5

meetings: the board holds at least three in-person meetings per year and held three in 2013. the board
also held, by telephone, one meeting of the entire board and four of the executive committee in 2013.

director attendance: directors must attend at least two-thirds of all board meetings (in person and by
telephone) or risk being asked to resign.

committees: there are two standing committees of the board defined in us sif’s bylaws: the executive
committee and the nominating committee. for 2013, the executive committee members were: michael lent
(chair), paul hilton (vice chair), darragh gallant (secretary), frank altman (treasurer) and lisa woll (ceo). the
executive committee can approve changes to policies and other matters to ensure the smooth day-to-day
operations of us sif. however, the committee is not allowed to fill vacancies on the board or on any board
committee, amend or repeal us sif’s bylaws, or take any action that affects more than 5 percent or $5,000 of
us sif’s budget, whichever is higher. it also needs to report all of its actions outside of ordinary business to
the full board within 14 days. the nominating committee deals with vacant board seats and issues related to
director elections. in 2013, its members were: darragh gallant (chair), michael lent, kimberlee cornett, dan
nielsen, reginald stanley and lisa woll. in addition to these two committees, there were several other board
committees. lisa woll is an ex officio member of all board committees.

        • 	audit: reviews us sif’s books and accounting practices [tim brennan (chair), frank altman and
           dan nielsen].
        • 	governance: reviews and updates us sif’s governance practices [frank altman (chair), tim
           brennan and michael lent].
        • 	401k trustees: meets with the advisor provided by plan administrator social(k) to review the
           performance and diversification provided by the funds offered under the us sif plan, and to replace,
           retire or add funds to the lineup as appropriate [craig metrick and betsy zeidman].

additionally, a number of board members were also represented on the conference agenda committee
(see p. 14), diversity committee (see p. 19), education committee (see p. 21), and research committee
(see p. 13). several members of the board also serve on the membership committee, which assists with
membership categories, dues and requirements, and assists membership retention and recruitment efforts
[phil kirshman (chair), meredith benton, tim brennan, michelle clayman, justin conway, kimberlee cornett,
darragh gallant, craig metrick, curtis ravenel and non-board members susan babcock, jan bryan, bob
helmuth and steve prickett].

by-laws: a full copy of us sif’s bylaws is available to members through the member center on the us sif
website.

annual review: the board conducts an annual self-review, led by the chair. the board sets annual goals as
a body. all board members also set individual goals.




6 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

2013 board elections: us sif conducted its 2013 election online. us sif members voted in one new and
three returning board members for three-year terms beginning in 2014:
         lyssa greenspan, chief operating officer, community capital management
       •a
        	 aul hilton, senior vice president, head of business development & portfolio manager, trillium asset
       •p
        management
        	 hil kirshman, account vice president, senior portfolio manager, ubs institutional consulting (chief
       •p
        investment officer, cornerstone capital in 2014)
       • craig metrick, principal, mercer

the board also appointed the following members to the us sif and us sif foundation boards:

         ilary irby, executive director, head of investing with impact, morgan stanley, for a three-year
       •h
        appointment
         eter coffin, founder and president, breckinridge capital advisors, for a one-year appointment to
       •p
        replace david wood, a board member who stepped down at the end of 2013
         ark regier, director of stewardship investing, praxis mutual funds, for a one-year appointment to
       •m
        replace tim brennan, a board member who stepped down at the end of 2013

we also said thank you and farewell to our four outgoing members: michael lent, chief investment officer,
veris wealth partners; frank altman, president & ceo, community reinvestment fund; tim brennan,
treasurer & cfo, unitarian universalist association; and david wood, director, initiative for responsible
investment, hauser center for nonprofit organizations at harvard university.




                                                      2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 7

                                                                       2013 us sif and us sif foundation

                                                                      board of directors




            frank altman                             michelle clayman                    darragh gallant
              treasurer*                    managing partner & chief investment            secretary*
    president & ceo, community               officer, new amsterdam partners         managing director, us, and
         reinvestment fund                                                        director of institutional relations,
                                                                                    north america, sustainalytics




          meredith benton                              justin conway                         paul hilton
         vice president,                         vice president, investment                  vice chair*
boston common asset management                partnerships, calvert foundation             portfolio manager,
                                                                                   trillium asset management, llc




                                                                                                                   	  
            tim brennan                             kimberlee cornett                      phil kirshman
treasurer and chief financial officer,           director, social investments,            financial advisor,
  unitarian universalist association                  kresge foundation            senior portfolio manager, pmp,
          of congregations                                                         the leonard social investment
                                                                                  group,ubs institutional consulting
                                                                                    group, ubs financial services

*executive committee member

8 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

            michael lent                     curtis ravenel                               david wood
               chair*                global head, sustainability group,       director, the institute for responsible
       chief investment officer,               bloomberg                          investment, hauser center for
        veris wealth partners                                                       nonprofit organizations at
                                                                                         harvard university




            craig metrick                   reginald stanley                            betsy zeidman
       principal and us head of               ceo & founder,                      senior fellow, milken institute
       responsible investment,       sustainable growth strategies, llc
                 mercer




             dan nielsen                        lisa woll*
                                             ceo, us sif and
    director, socially responsible
                                            us sif foundation
    investing, christian brothers
         investment services




*executive committee member

                                                    2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 9

                                                   2013–2015 strategic plan


 our 2013-2015 strategic plan sought to address a number of opportunities and challenges, as outlined
 throughout this report, while also continuing the advances of the past several years, which have included
 increasing the diversity of our membership, enhancing our research and policy initiatives, expanding our
 member services, creating our national conference, and rolling out our plan to become the hub of professional
 sri education in the united states. we have sought to continue to grow the organization’s budget as well as
 to diversify our funding.

 the 2013–2015 strategic goals are listed below.

 strategic goal 1
 enhance the brand of us sif as the expert source for institutional investors, investment professionals, media
 and policymakers interested in sustainable and responsible investment.

 strategic goal 2
 support members’ professional development. increase us sif membership and dues revenue.

 strategic goal 3
 advance sustainable investing through comprehensive education, research and policy initiatives.

 strategic goal 4
 implement a business model that will enable growth of the organization and the accomplishment of its goals.

 our 2013 operating plan, which guided our activities throughout the year, was based on the goals established
 in our strategic plan for 2013-2015.




10 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

                 our work
the following sections present
             our core activities




2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 11

                                                             research & resources


 us sif
 sri mutual fund performance chart: with data from us sif member bloomberg, us sif updated
 its sri mutual fund performance chart throughout 2013, offering useful data about its members’ funds to
 investors and financial professionals. this included performance data, screening and shareholder advocacy
 information, and account overviews.

 separate account managers in sustainable and responsible investing: in march, us sif
 launched a new online chart of us sif members offering separate accounts to enable institutional asset
 owners, family offices and high net worth individuals to find managers with expertise in sustainable and
 responsible investment strategies.

 newsletter: us sif’s quarterly online newsletters allow members to keep current on research, policy
 issues, and new developments at us sif.




 us sif foundation
 in 2013, the us sif foundation released four reports that are available online free of charge to us sif
 members and the general public as part of the foundation’s center for sustainable investment education.

 community investing: expanding the market for community investment in the united states, a practical
 guide both for those who develop and manage community development vehicles and for potential investors,
 culminated a project that the us sif foundation led under a grant from the ford foundation and in
 collaboration with the initiative for responsible investment at harvard university (iri) and the milken institute.
 the report suggests that investment vehicles targeted at community development in the united states
 are poised to attract new sources of capital—especially from high net worth individuals, family offices,
 donor-advised funds, community foundations and pension funds—if some important changes are made
 in the way these products are structured and marketed. the us sif foundation, iri and the milken institute
 held a well-attended webinar on the report in september for us sif members and others active in community
 and impact investing.

 impact: the impact of sustainable and responsible investment details how sustainable and responsible
 investors have influenced the investment industry, investors, companies, communities, public policy and
 standard setting organizations. specifically, the paper presents examples of how sustainable and responsible
 investors have:

         • changed the investment industry and added options for investors in public equities, depository
            institutions, loan funds, and private equity and other alternative investments,
         • improved companies through active ownership and engagement,
         • helped communities and individuals, and
         • developed global standard-setting organizations.

12 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

theme handbooks: with general programming support from wallace
global fund, the us sif foundation published the first two handbooks                 research committee
under its “how do i sri?” series. each handbook in the series provides               at december 2013
a brief background on an issue, explores how sri can be employed to
address it and provides informational resources for the reader. investing            mark bateman
to curb climate change comprised the first two guides, with one                      sarah cleveland
focused on institutional investors and the other on retail investors. both           justin conway
provide investors with strategies for using their assets to address the              kimberly gladman
risks of climate change and to help generate solutions. the guides also              joshua humphreys
suggest several public policy initiatives investors can support to facilitate        craig metrick
investments in clean energy and energy efficiency. responding to the                 tim smith
interest in fossil fuel divestment, the us sif foundation also created a             reggie stanley
“fossil fuels, divestment and reinvestment” webpage with information                 tom woelfel
and resources for investors.                                                         david wood




                                                        2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 13

                                                                        events & media


 us sif
 annual conference: in may, us sif held its third annual conference, finance for a sustainable future,
 in chicago. member-only programming included us sif’s annual meeting, working group meetings, and
 ceo lisa woll’s interview with mellody hobson, president of ariel investments. the conference attracted over
 315 attendees, raised the profile of our organization and our industry in several media outlets, and provided
 an exciting range of plenary and breakout sessions on issues ranging from the future of fossil fuel investing
 to investment opportunities in sustainable agriculture and corporate political spending post citizens united.
 we heard from sustainable investment leaders, policy makers, ceos and nonprofit leaders. the conference
 featured dynamic presentations from former senator russ feingold, founder of progressives united; bill
 mckibben, founder of 350.org; chris jochnick, director of private sector engagement, oxfam america; and
 john fullerton, founder and president of capital institute, among others.

 us sif staff is deeply grateful to the volunteer members of the agenda committee in 2013 who developed
 ideas for sessions and helped recruit speakers.




    conference agenda                         sponsors of the conference were:
    committee at
                                              boston common asset             mercer
    december 2013                              management                     msci esg research
    susan babcock                             bloomberg                       the nature conservancy
    meredith benton                           breckinridge capital advisors   neuberger berman
    keith bisson                              calvert foundation              new amsterdam partners
    barb brown                                calvert investments             northern trust
    sarah cleveland                           campbell soup company           parnassus investments
    noel friedman                             chicago equity partners         pax world investments
    nina gardner                              christian brothers investment   portfolio 21 investments
    erin gray                                  services                       s&p dow jones indices
    alyssa greenspan                          the coca cola company           sustainalytics
    erika karp                                community reinvestment          tiaa-cref financial services
    phil kirshman                              fund, usa                      trillium asset management
    dan nielsen                               dana investment advisors        ubs
    jan piercy                                domini social investments       walden asset management
    mark regier                               eiris                           wespath investment
    elizabeth sessler                         envestnet                        management
    betsy zeidman                             first affirmative financial
                                               network                        green money journal and the
                                              mccormick                        nation were media sponsors.
                                              mcdonald’s


14 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

social media: us sif continued to grow its social media presence throughout the year. at the end of 2013,
us sif’s twitter feed (http://www.twitter.com/followussif) counted approximately 1,668 followers, compared
with 900 followers at the end of 2012. us sif’s facebook page (http://www.facebook.com/followussif)
ended the year with more than 663 fans, compared with over 435 at the end of 2012. finally, us sif
maintained its presence on linkedin for exclusive use by us sif members. us sif used these three channels
to promote us sif events, press releases and research, and developments in sri.

media related: us sif or the us sif foundation issued eight press releases and statements in 2013 on
a broad range of topics reflecting us sif’s diverse programs, research and public policy priorities. the us
sif foundation’s publications, particularly its investing to curb climate change guides, received favorable
coverage in bloomberg, financial advisor magazine and other publications.

member receptions: us sif held four get-togethers in 2013 for current and prospective members in
boston, chicago, colorado springs and new york city.




us sif foundation
member webinars: the us sif foundation held three webinars for members in 2013 as part of its effort to
expand educational and professional development opportunities on the following topics:

       • the findings of its report on expanding the market for community investment in the united states;
       • practical strategies to promote diversity and inclusion in your organization; and
       • the policy priorities for sustainable and responsible investors in europe and the united states.




                                                       2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 15

                                                  public policy & advocacy


 us sif
 in 2013, us sif worked on six key public policy issues:
         • requirements that companies disclose their political contributions,
         • improved corporate disclosure of environmental, social and governance (esg) issues,
         • an sri option for federal employees’ retirement plans,
         • actions to curb climate change,
         • improvements in erisa fiduciary duty guidance on sri, and
         • funding and regulatory support for community investing.

 to advance these issues, us sif and its members met with kara stein, the newest commissioner of the
 securities and exchange commission, and with the staff of several congressional offices, including
 senator elizabeth warren (d-ma), senator jeff merkley (d-or), congressman keith ellison (d-mn) and
 the senate committee on health, education, labor and pensions. we also engaged in the numerous
 activities described below.

 rulemaking related to dodd-frank act: much of us sif’s policy work in 2013 continued to center
 on numerous provisions in the dodd-frank wall street financial reform and consumer protection act of
 2010 that required the sec to draft implementing regulations. us sif staff held multiple meetings with
 sec commissioners and their staffs to discuss the scope and text of such regulations and issued formal
 comments on proposed rules. dodd-frank provisions of particular interest to us sif in 2013 are
 discussed below.

           xecutive compensation and pay disparity—on september 19, the sec issued a proposed rule
         •e
          on executive compensation mandated under section 953(b) of the dodd-frank act. under the
          proposal, companies would be required to disclose: the median of the annual total compensation of
          all its employees except the ceo, the annual total compensation of its ceo, and the ratio of the two
          amounts. us sif has long supported this rule and issued a press release welcoming the proposal.
          on december 2, us sif submitted comments to the sec underscoring three points: disclosure of
          ceo-to-worker pay ratio is material to investors, investors need the ceo-to-worker pay ratio data
          in order to incorporate compensation practices into financial analysis, and the proposed rule allows
          flexibility in how the median compensation of non-principal executive officer (“non-peo”) employees
          is calculated and allows issuers to provide this information without undue difficulty or expense.
          us sif strongly encouraged its members to submit their own comments and provided them with
          a template comment letter. the sec received 100,000 comments on the proposed rule.
           onflict minerals disclosure—under the dodd frank law, publicly traded us companies that
         •c
          source minerals such as tantalum and tin will need to report the measures they use to ensure that
          they are not sourcing the minerals from mines or smelters controlled by the armed factions in the
          democratic republic of the congo that are waging a war in the eastern part of the country. although
          the sec adopted new rules on the disclosure of conflict minerals in 2012, the rules were legally
          challenged by the chamber of commerce, the national association of manufacturers and the


16 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

         business roundtable. during this period, us sif and its members continued to support the rules
         and called on companies to implement them. on july 24, the us district court for the district of
         columbia upheld the conflict minerals disclosure rules and dismissed the lawsuit against the sec.
         the national association of manufacturers (nam) and others requested a temporary stay of the
         reporting rule. on may 14, 2014, the us court of appeals for the dc circuit denied nam’s request.
         us sif applauded the court’s decision to preserve the rule’s due diligence and reporting provisions,
         but expressed concern that the court invalidated on first amendment grounds the rule’s requirement
         that companies designate whether products are “conflict-free.” broad application of the court’s
         approach to first amendment protections against compelled speech could threaten the ability of
         congress to require corporate disclosure of information that is material both to investors and to the
         public interest.
         isclosure of payments to governments by resource extraction issuers—similar to the conflict
       •d
        minerals rule (above), the sec adopted rules in 2012 to require companies registered with the sec
        to disclose their payments to governments for the commercial development of oil, natural gas or
        minerals. american petroleum institute filed a lawsuit to challenge the rules. on july 2, the us
        district court for the district of columbia ruled in american petroleum institute et al. vs. securities
        and exchange commission to vacate and remand the new rules, taking issue with the sec’s intent
        to make companies’ full filings public—as opposed to summaries—and to the sec’s refusal to grant
        exceptions for payments to countries that prohibit payment disclosure. in 2013, the sec chose not
        to appeal the decision and indicated that it would revise the rule. we continued to encourage the
        sec not to weaken the rule and to make it effective as early as possible.

corporate political contributions disclosure: in 2013, us sif and its members engaged in
efforts with other coalitions to respond to the supreme court’s 2010 decision in citizens united v. federal
election commission, which enables corporations to spend an unlimited amount of money on political
advertising. us sif joined a rulemaking petition asking the sec to require companies to disclose their
political spending and/or subject their budgets for political contributions to shareowner votes. on october 9,
us sif participated in a senate briefing on this issue. by the end of 2013, the sec had received over 640,000
comments—a record number—with most comments supportive of the rulemaking. although the issue was on
the sec’s regulatory agenda in january 2013 and the sec had announced that it intended to move forward
with creating a rule to require all publicly traded corporations to disclose their political spending, we were
disappointed to learn in november that the issue was not included in the 2014 regulatory agenda.

sri option for federal employees: in 2013, us sif continued to seek congressional support for
the federal employees responsible investment act (feria), which directs the federal retirement thrift
investment board (frtib) to select a “corporate responsibility index” as an option for the thrift savings
plan (tsp). this legislation, if enacted, would thereby grant federal employees the opportunity to select an
sri option in their thrift savings plan—a significant milestone, and 2013 was the first time that a senate bill
was introduced on this issue. on november 20, senator sheldon whitehouse (d-ri) introduced feria in the
senate, and representative james langevin (d-ri) re-introduced it in the house. while adding an sri option
to the thrift savings plan has been a policy priority for us sif for several years, it has also called for one or
more sri options as part of the mutual fund “window option” under the thrift savings plan enhancement
act, which authorizes the frtib to add such an option to allow participants to move investments out of
the tsp funds and into a private-sector suite of mutual funds. us sif also began engagement with key
agencies, including meeting with officials at the us department of state, to brief them on an sri option for
federal employees and the window option. in 2013, the thrift saving plan began a review of the feasibility of
implementing a mutual fund window with the aim of presenting the research to its board in 2014.


                                                       2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 17

 climate change: on september 20, the environmental protection agency proposed the first-ever carbon
 pollution standard for new power plants. nearly 50 investors with over $900 billion in combined assets
 under management—including many us sif members—signed an open letter welcoming the standard.
 several weeks later, on november 14, us sif and the investor network on climate risk held a capitol hill
 advocacy day on climate issues. the us sif and incr delegates held meetings with the staff of 17 senators
 and representatives to ask them to oppose any legislation to delay or obstruct the epa’s carbon pollution
 standards for power plants. they also asked these members of congress to support the master limited
 partnership parity act for renewable energy and energy efficiency projects and to extend the production tax
 credit for wind power.

 erisa: in 2013, us sif worked with a group of investment leaders to send a letter to gene sperling and
 valerie jarrett, senior advisors to president obama, to request the withdrawal of the department of labor’s
 2008 interpretive bulletins relating to “investing in economically targeted investments” and to the “exercise
 of shareholder rights.” the february 25th letter, signed by several responsible investing leaders, criticized
 the 2008 bulletin on economically targeted investments for specifically discouraging investments that improve
 local communities (such as local job creation and affordable housing) and that support environmental
 sustainability.

                                      integrated reporting: on july 15, us sif submitted an online comment
policy committee                      to the international integrated reporting committee (iirc) on the consultation
at december 2013                      draft of the integrated reporting framework. our comment letter presented
                                      our general position on the integrated reporting framework and provided
tim smith (chair)                     responses to questions in the consultation draft.
stu dalheim
bennett freeman                       shareholder advocacy: in march, us sif posted a statement defending
julie gorte                           the tradition of shareholder engagement, especially by shareholders who
jeanine jacokes                       seek assurance that their portfolio companies are not seeking quarterly
adam kanzer                           returns at the expense of long-term sustainability. the statement criticized
michael kramer                        corporations that discourage shareholders from expressing their views and
michael lent                          specifically mentioned the extreme example offered by chevron, which went
craig metrick                         so far as to file a legal subpoena to two shareholder advocates to seek their
ronald phillips                       communications concerning environmental problems stemming from one of
cheryl smith                          its former sites of operation and the shareholder resolutions filed in response.
david wood
betsy zeidman




18 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

                                 working groups & programs


the programmatic work of us sif and the us sif foundation is largely carried out by staff, but also is given
added value by the activities of other member-led working groups. us sif is indebted to the members who
volunteered their time to participate on steering committees, organize webinars and events and provide
technical expertise during 2013.




us sif
diversity committee: the diversity committee, created in 2012, provides
advice and input on tools and strategies to advance diversity and inclusion             diversity
in the sustainable and responsible investment industry. given the significant           committee at
interest among our members on this issue, we held a keynote address on                  december 2013
diversity at the 2013 us sif annual meeting, as well as a focused discussion
on diversity and inclusion at the ceo & sri leaders meeting at the                      mark regier (chair)
conference. additionally, in 2013 us sif created a conference scholarship               geeta aiyer
program that would enable seven students interested in a career in sustainable          michelle clayman
investment to receive scholarships to cover the registration costs for the 2014         sarah cleveland
annual conference. in october, us sif hosted a webinar on diversity and                 ingrid dyott
inclusion that offered concrete, practical steps that firms can utilize in both         tammy haygood
recruiting a diverse candidate pool and in being an inclusive culture.                  lisa hayles
                                                                                        paul herman
                                    sustainable investment research                     jeannine jacokes
siran steering                      analyst network (siran): the                        angie janssen
committee at                        sustainable investment research analyst             erika karp
december 2013                       network advances research on corporate              sonia kowal
                                    social responsibility and provides                  kobie mahiri
mike lombardo (co-chair)            professional support for industry analysts.         christina valauri
dan nielsen (co-chair)              it offers a unique forum for sustainable            mark watson
amy augustine                       investment research analysts to discuss
verity chegar                       research strategies, attend educational
meggin thwing eastman               sessions and engage companies on sustainability issues. in 2013, siran
noel friedman                       held five company teleconference meetings, giving analysts within the sri
heather lang                        community the opportunity to question corporate representatives about
mary jane mcquillen                 sustainability challenges and opportunities at their companies. siran
catherine pargeter                  also held eight educational sessions as a component of professional
tessie petion                       development for its members. in addition, siran and the international
marcela pinilla                     working group (iwg) jointly organized sessions for their working groups
mariela vargova                     during the us sif annual conference (see more under international
annie white                         working group section).




                                                     2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 19

 us sif foundation
 global sustainable investment alliance (gsia): the us sif foundation is a founding member of
 and is actively involved with the global sustainable investment alliance, a collaboration of the seven largest
 membership-based sustainable investment organizations around the world. participation in international
 sri issues as part of gsia continued throughout 2013. ceo lisa woll was in singapore in march where
 she participated in a plenary session at responsible investor’s ri asia 2013: the investor-corporate esg
 summit and also attended gsia’s third annual meeting. the gsia released its first global sustainable
 investment review in 2013 as a collection of regional studies on sustainable and responsible investment
 around the globe.

 community investing working group (ciwg): the community investing working group creates
 strategies for us sif members and others to increase investments in communities underserved by traditional
 financial services. in 2013, ciwg held two meetings for us sif members and other interested investors: one
 at the us sif annual conference in chicago, and the other at the sri conference in colorado springs.

 indigenous peoples working group (ipwg): the indigenous peoples working group seeks to bring
 together native and non-native communities in the area of sustainable and responsible investing. ipwg
 partners with native american organizations and leaders in order to achieve this goal. it works to coordinate
 research, outreach, education and advocacy around investment issues that affect indigenous peoples’
 cultures and communities. in 2013, the ipwg hosted a meeting on indigenous peoples’ issues at the
 sri conference.

 international working group (iwg): the international working group collaborates with other global
 institutional investors, researchers and advocacy partners focused on how investments can positively
 affect global issues of concern and influence corporations operating around the world. during us sif’s
 annual conference, iwg and siran organized two sessions for their members. the first session explored
 divestment versus engagement strategies regarding controversial portfolio companies, such as fossil fuel or
 firearm companies. the second addressed the increased scrutiny on the impact of esg investing and how to
 measure it. the group also presented a series of webinars on responsible stock exchanges.


    working group steering committee members at december 2013

    ciwg steering committee                                       ipwg steering             iwg steering
   georgette frazer                joe porter                     committee                 committee
      (co-chair)                   art stevens                    jan bryan (co-chair)      jacob park (chair)
   ellen golden (co-chair)         michael swack                  susan white (co-chair)    molly betournay
   karin chamberlain                                              carla fredericks          alison bevilacqua
   justin conway                                                  steven heim               simon billenness
   jeannine jacokes                                               stephanie leighton        tony campos
   donna katzin                                                   reed montague             sonia kowal
   anne lawson                                                                              judith moore
   andy loving                                                                              catalina secreteanu
   warren mclean                                                                            mariela vargova
   folake oguntebi
    more information about us sif’s working groups and their activities can be found at: http://www.ussif.org/
    workinggroups.

20 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

                                               professional education


us sif foundation
in 2013 the us sif foundation launched the center for sustainable investment education. the center
serves the growing need of investment professionals in the united states to gain expertise in the field of
sustainable and responsible investment. the center provides high quality education, research and thought
leadership on sustainable investment.

online course: in april, the us sif foundation launched fundamentals of sustainable and responsible
investment, an online course, to provide basic education for financial advisors and other professionals who
are new to sri. fundamentals takes approximately three hours to complete and is self-paced. a short video
demo of the course was created and can be accessed here: http://www.ussif.org/courses.

completion of the course results in a certificate, as well as three cfp® board and cfa institute continuing
education credits. imca has accepted fundamentals of sustainable and responsible investment for three
hours of ce credit towards the cima®, cimc® and cpwa® certifications. forty people completed the online
course in 2013.

in-person courses: the us sif foundation delivered an in-person training based on the fundamentals
course at the us sif conference in chicago in may, in addition to an in-person training at the sri conference
in colorado springs in october. participants that complete the trainings receive a certificate and the same
continuing education credits as the online version mentioned above. in 2013, 145 people attended the live
courses.

us sif foundation thanks:                                                               education
                                                                                        committee at
       • bloomberg and morgan stanley for their generous support for course
                                                                                        december 2013
          development.
       • calvert foundation, calvert investments, neuberger berman and                 paul hilton (chair)
          parnassus investments for seed money that allowed us to begin the             jan bryan
          journey towards online education several years ago.                           michelle clayman
                                                                                        sarah cleveland
       • georgette frazer, the lead consultant, and the members of the
                                                                                        peter coffin
          education committee for their time and invaluable support.
                                                                                        ingrid dyott
                                                                                        paul ellis
                                                                                        lynne ford
                                                                                        georgette frazier
                                                                                        noel friedman
                                                                                        darby hobbs
                                                                                        bruce kahn
                                                                                        phil kirshman
                                                                                        steve lydenberg
                                                                                        curtis ravenel
                                                                                        jeffrey suyematsu


                                                     2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 21


our commitment
 to sustainability
   the following section presents our
      commitment to our employees
                 and to sustainability




 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 23

                                                                  policies & practices
 below is an overview of some of us sif’s environmental, employee and other social policies and practices.
 (governance was covered on pages 5–7). additional information appears in the gri index at the end of
 this report.

 staff travel: us sif policy strongly encourages staff to use bicycles, public transportation or shared rides
 whenever possible when commuting to work or travelling on us sif business. us sif participates in the
 washington metropolitan area transit authority’s smartbenefits program, which allows employees to pay for
 public transportation expenses with pre-tax income. us sif’s central office location, adjacent to three major
 subway lines and bus transportation, as well as a city-wide private shared bike service, provides incentive
 for its employees to use public transportation, and all of them did in 2013. on business travel, train use is
 promoted over air travel for short trips. detailed information on staff travel appears in the analysis of the
 organization’s carbon footprint below.

 recycling and waste reduction: us sif recycles office                                  paper
 paper, cardboard, drink containers and other items, including toner
 cartridges for its printers. it also uses partially recycled paper. us
 sif donates or responsibly recycles all used electronic equipment.
 us sif staff and guests also use non-disposable drink containers,
                                                                               energy
 plates and utensils, and us sif staff composts its coffee grounds.          consumption
 us sif offers electronic versions of all of its marketing, research
 reports and other print materials to minimize paper use and limits
 print materials whenever possible. the default setting on all us sif
                                                                                                travel
 printers is double-sided. more information on us sif’s paper use
 appears in the review of its carbon footprint below.

 environmental considerations for events: us sif
 considers the sustainability initiatives of the prospective venues it
 reviews during the site selection process for conferences. these
 considerations include energy efficiency, use of renewable energy, green building certifications, water use,
 recycling and waste management, use of local organic food, food donations, stakeholder relations and labor
 practices. us sif also weighs whether a site is compliant with the green hotel initiative and whether it has
 calculated its carbon footprint with the goal of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. at event venues,
 us sif encourages attendees to recycle and makes recycling as easy as possible. it also seeks sustainable,
 organic and fair trade products in menu selections and avoids using bottled water at its events.

 carbon footprint: as advised by the global reporting initiative, us sif used the greenhouse gas
 protocol (ghg protocol) developed by the world resources institute and the world business council for
 sustainable development to calculate its greenhouse gas emissions. in particular, it used the ghg protocol’s
 guidance for small, office-based businesses: working 9 to 5 on climate change. us sif has no direct
 emissions. under the ghg protocol, all of us sif’s emissions are indirect “scope three” emissions as
 us sif does not own its office space and does not own corporate cars or jets. us sif focused
 measurements of its indirect emissions in four primary areas: employee commuting, business travel,
 office energy consumption and paper use.




24 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

                                  us sif employee commuting patterns
employee                    no. of            car          bus            light rail       train miles       walk/
                         commuting           miles         miles            miles          (dc metro)      bike miles
                        days per week       per day       per day          per day          per day         per day

 #1                           3                 6.0          0                0               14.0            0.5

 #2                           5                  0           0                0               13.0            1.0

 #3                           4                 2.0          0                0               14.0            0.1

 #4 (january–april)           5                  0           0                0                5.0            1.0

 #4 (april–december)          3                  0           0                0                7.0            1.0

 #5                           5                  0           0                0                4.0            1.5

 #6                           5                  0           0                0                3.0            1.0

 #7 (january–june)            5                  0           0                0                 0             1.0

 #7 (june–december)           5                 10.0         0                0                1.0            0.1

 #8                           5                  0           0                0                 0             1.6

 total for 2013 		                          2,346            0                0               9,989          1,227



commuting: except for one employee who only walked to and from work, all us sif employees used public
transportation to commute in 2013. three employees used car travel for a portion of their commute to get
to the subway, although two of them commuted fewer than five days per week. additionally, one employee
began working part-time, three days per week, in april, while another employee joined the staff on a
full-time basis in april. each us sif staff member was granted three to five weeks of vacation leave per
year, in addition to sick leave, as well as the equivalent of two weeks federal holiday leave. therefore,
total miles in the table above are based on a 46-week work year.

employee work-related travel: us sif employees are required to file trip reports for all
business-related travel. using these reports, us sif was able to calculate mileage for all types of travel,
except some car travel completed without receipts from car rental companies and some travel by public
transport. whenever possible, mileage estimates were made using google maps and other methods to
arrive at the totals in the accompanying table.



                              employee-related travel in 2013 (miles)
              air                   train/subway                    bus                     car

            54,874                      1,575                       0                       220




                                                       2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 25

                                            carbon footprint of us sif travel
  mode of transportation             total miles traveled                 emissions factor         total co2-e in metric tons

  air                                        54,874                            0.00020                      10.975

  car                                         2,566                            0.00031                       0.795

  train                                      11,564                            0.00017                       1.966

  bus                                           0                              0.00018                         0

  total for 2013			                                                                                         13.736

 emissions factors were drawn from the department of energy’s energy information administration.




 office energy consumption: us sif leased office space in the barr building, located in farragut square
 at 910 17th street nw, suite 1000, washington, dc 20006, during 2013. the barr building used an estimated
 1,931,738 kilowatt hours (kwh) of electricity for its 92,411 square feet or 20.90 kwh per square foot
 during the year. us sif occupies 2,235 square feet of space of the 92,411 square feet serviced by the main
 meter. based on these assumptions, we estimate that us sif used 46,720 kwh in 2013. using the average
 emissions factor for our region (0.0001002 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per kilowatt hour per the
 environmental protection agency), we estimated that the carbon footprint for the us sif office from electricity
 use was 4.681 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (co2-e) in 2013. there are several imperfections
 to this calculation that need to be improved upon in future reporting. first, the building did not provide kwh
 usage for 2013, and thus the 2012 estimate was used. second, our estimate did not account for us sif’s use
 of common areas in the building. in addition, while us sif and the building used compact fluorescent bulbs
 throughout the facility and lighting triggered by movement to reduce energy consumption in common areas,
 the barr building did not purchase renewable energy credits from pepco, our local utility.

 paper consumption: us sif used the approximate equivalent of 100 reams of paper in the
 production of marketing materials, reports, business cards and day-to-day office paper consumption.
 the average weight of a ream of paper is 2.6 kilograms per ream, and the carbon footprint for recycled
 content, which us sif used, is 1.907 kilograms of co2-e per kilogram of paper consumed. using
 these assumptions, the carbon footprint of us sif’s paper use was 0.496 metric tons of co2-e.

 total: based on our calculations and assumptions, us sif’s carbon footprint is the equivalent of 18.913
 metric tons of co2-e, or 2.541 metric tons per full-time staff equivalent. this compares to 2.094 metric tons
 per full time-staff equivalent in 2012 and 2.065 in 2011. the increase was due to the approximately doubling
 of air miles traveled in 2013 from 2012 connected with holding the annual conference in chicago rather than
 in washington, dc, and the gsia conference taking place in singapore as opposed to london as in the
 year prior. car mileage also roughly doubled when one staff member relocated. a breakdown of the primary
 contributors to the 2013 total appears in the pie chart on p. 24.

 room for improvement: us sif does not currently have a strategy for reducing its carbon footprint, aside
 from following its present strategies for limiting energy consumption and paper use and utilizing the least
 energy intensive travel where possible.

 eeo policy: us sif’s anti-bias policy states that it “shall not discriminate and shall take affirmative action
 to ensure that it conducts all business without regard to a person’s race, color, religion, gender, age,

26 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

affectional or sexual orientation, marital or familial status, national origin, ancestry, non-job related disability,
veteran status, or other unlawful bases.” as an organization based in the district of columbia, us sif also is
prohibited from discriminating in employment based on gender identity.

employee benefits: us sif offers employees a group health and dental plan and subsidizes the premiums.
it also provides a 401(k) plan, matches contributions up to 5 percent of an employee’s annual salary before
taxes and offers sri and other investment options through social(k). us sif provides sick, vacation and
personal leave to all employees, as well as disability and life insurance. employees may also elect to make
pre-tax contributions to participate in the smartbenefits program offered by the local transportation authority
and in a flexible spending account program for medical and child care expenses.

us sif also offers the opportunity to apply for a one to three week sabbatical to all employees at the
conclusion of each five years of full-time employment. unlike vacation or other types of paid leave, the
objective of the sabbatical leave is to provide staff with the opportunity to enjoy a period of time away from
the day to day demands of their jobs in order to concentrate on a work-related project and to develop further
professionally.

political contributions: while us sif engages a policy consultant and has select staff engage on
various policy issues on behalf of the us sif membership, us sif does not make political contributions or
endorse candidates for public office.

staff: as of year-end 2013, us sif had seven full-time and one part-time staff members.




        lisa woll                 farzana hoque                   supap jitta                         alya kayal
          ceo                  research and programs            membership and                   director of programs
                                     associate               administrative manager                   and policy




     sylvia panek                  megan smith                   terry thornton                      meg voorhes
   assistant director             public affairs and           assistant director of             director of research
     of operations                events assistant            professional education                and operations
   and development


                                                          2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 27

                                                           2013 audited financials



               to the board of directors
               us sif: the forum for sustainable and
                responsible investment and
                us sif foundation
               washington, dc


                                                independent auditor's report

               report on the financial statements

               we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of us sif: the forum for
               sustainable and responsible investment and us sif foundation (collectively referred to as the
               organization), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as of december 31, 2013,
               and the related consolidated statements of activities, functional expenses and cash flows for the year then
               ended, and the related notes to the consolidated financial statements.

               management’s responsibility for the financial statements

               management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial
               statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america;
               this includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation
               and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
               fraud or error.

               auditor’s responsibility

               our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
               we conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the united states of
               america. those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
               whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement.

               an audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in
               the consolidated financial statements. the procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment,
               including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements,
               whether due to fraud or error. in making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control
               relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order
               to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing
               an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. accordingly, we express no such opinion.
               an audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness
               of significant accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of
               the consolidated financial statements.

               we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
               our audit opinion.




28 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org
                                                                1

2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 29

         us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                 and us sif foundation
                        consolidated statement of financial position
                                                         december 31, 2013
                                                   (with summarized financial information for december 31, 2012)


                                                                                       2013               2012

          assets

          current assets
          cash and cash equivalents                                               $ 575,495          $ 538,294
          grant receivable                                                           10,000             10,000
          prepaid expenses                                                           24,218             51,379

          total current assets                                                      609,713            599,673

          property and equipment

          computers and phone equipment                                              17,005             10,410
          accumulated depreciation
            and amortization                                                        (10,304)             (8,442)

          total property and equipment                                                6,701              1,968

          security deposit                                                            5,774              5,774

          total assets                                                            $ 622,188          $ 607,415

          liabilities and net assets

          current liabilities
          accounts payable and accrued expenses                                    $ 40,723           $ 66,214
          deferred revenue                                                          133,710            172,480
          deferred rent                                                               1,541              3,986

          total current liabilities                                                 175,974            242,680

          deferred rent, net of current portion                                          -0-             1,541

          total liabilities                                                         175,974            244,221

          net assets

          unrestricted                                                              436,214            305,017
          temporarily restricted                                                     10,000             58,177

          total net assets                                                          446,214            363,194

          total liabilities and net assets                                        $ 622,188          $ 607,415

                        the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.


30 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org
                                                             3

us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                          and us sif foundation
                        consolidated statement of activities
                                for the year ended december 31, 2013
                         (with summarized financial information for the year ended december 31, 2012)


                                                              temporarily              2013         2012
                                                 unrestricted   restricted            total        total

revenues

membership dues                                    $ 802,430                     $ 802,430    $ 708,520
contributions                                        170,200       $ 10,000        180,200       31,275
sponsorship, other than events                         3,000                         3,000      143,136
event related income                                 413,971                       413,971      354,072
interest income                                          418                           418        1,273
course registration                                   31,410                        31,410           -0-
publications                                           9,675                         9,675        7,895
other revenue                                          3,156                         3,156       10,612
net assets released from restrictions                 58,177         (58,177)           -0-          -0-

total revenues                                     1,492,437         (48,177)    1,444,260    1,256,783

expenses

program services                                   1,251,225                     1,251,225    1,330,719
management and general                                83,477                        83,477       56,609
membership development                                10,850                        10,850       37,185
fundraising                                           15,688                        15,688       11,671

total expenses                                     1,361,240             -0-     1,361,240    1,436,184

change in net assets                                 131,197         (48,177)       83,020     (179,401)

net assets, beginning of year                        305,017         58,177        363,194      542,595

net assets, end of year                            $ 436,214       $ 10,000      $ 446,214    $ 363,194

                the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.




                                                  4 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 31

          us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                    and us sif foundation
                        consolidated statement of functional expenses
                                          for the year ended december 31, 2013
                                            (with summarized financial information for the year ended december 31, 2012)

                                                     program      management     membership                          2013          2012
                                                       services    and general   development    fundraising         total         total

          salaries                                   $ 565,364        $ 56,664                      $ 9,743     $ 631,771     $ 569,362
          employee benefits and payroll taxes           97,497          9,556                         1,614       108,667        94,827
          recruitment and training                         426             40                             5           471         1,456
          payroll and benefits administration            5,014            483                            84         5,581         5,278
          consulting                                   181,362          5,276        $ 10,850           859       198,347       350,188
          subgrant expense                              38,392                                                     38,392       125,624
          office expenses                              129,320         10,093                         3,086       142,499       121,246
          sif - sponsored events                       194,895             30                            15       194,940       138,678
          staff meals, lodging and travel               23,185            254                            35        23,474        15,455
          financial services and fees                   14,957            996                           204        16,157        12,875
          miscellaneous                                    813             85                            43           941         1,195

          total expenses                           $ 1,251,225        $ 83,477       $ 10,850      $ 15,688   $ 1,361,240   $ 1,436,184


                                                the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.




32 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org
                                                                          5

    us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                              and us sif foundation
                          consolidated statement of cash flows
                                    for the year ended december 31, 2013
                              (with summarized financial information for the year ended december 31, 2012)

.
                                                                                             2013          2012

    cash flows from operating activities

    change in net assets                                                                  $ 83,020    $ (179,401)

    adjustments to reconcile change in net assets to net cash provided by
      (used in) operating activities:

      depreciation                                                                           1,861        2,494
      decrease in grants receivable                                                             -0-       5,525
      decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses                                               27,161      (30,260)
      (decrease) increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses                         (25,491)      37,212
      (decrease) increase in deferred revenue                                              (38,770)     146,660
      decrease in deferred rent                                                             (3,986)      (2,091)

    net cash provided by (used in) operating activities                                     43,795      (19,861)

    cash flows from investing activities

    purchases of property and equipment                                                     (6,594)       (1,791)

    net cash used in investing activities                                                   (6,594)       (1,791)

    net increase (decrease) in cash
     and cash equivalents                                                                   37,201      (21,652)

    cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year                                          538,294       559,946

    cash and cash equivalents, end of year                                               $ 575,495    $ 538,294

                       the accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.




                                                             2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 33
                                                         6

      us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                              and us sif foundation
                       notes to consolidated financial statements
                                                      december 31, 2013

     note a - organization and summary of significant accounting policies

     principles of
     consolidation and
     organization            us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment (formerly social
                             investment forum, ltd.) (us sif) is a nonprofit organization incorporated under
                             the laws of new york in november 1984. the objective and purpose of the us
                             sif is to advance investment practices that consider environmental, social and
                             corporate governance criteria to generate long-term competitive financial returns
                             and positive societal impact.

                             us sif foundation (formerly social investment forum foundation, inc.) (the
                             foundation) is a nonprofit organization incorporated under the laws of
                             massachusetts in june 1989. the objective and purpose of the foundation is to
                             support the activities and purpose of the us sif by assuming the responsibilities
                             for, and the management of, certain educational, research, charitable and
                             scientific activities.

                             the us sif and the foundation share staff and board members and the us sif is
                             the sole member of the foundation.

                             the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the us sif and the
                             foundation. all interorganization balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

                             the us sif and the foundation are funded primarily by member dues,
                             contributions, event and sponsorship revenues.

                             the us sif’s and the foundation’s program include the publication of reports
                             and resource guides, professional education courses, and events, seminars and
                             forums relating to the concept of sustainable and responsible investing and
                             business practices.

     basis of
     accounting              the accompanying consolidated financial statements are presented on the accrual
                             basis of accounting. consequently, revenue is recognized when earned and
                             expenses when incurred.

     tax status              the us sif is a membership association and is exempt from federal and state
                             income taxes under section 501(c)(6) of the internal revenue code. the
                             foundation is a supporting organization to the us sif and is exempt from federal
                             and state income taxes under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code.
     accounting for
     uncertain tax
     positions               the organization requires that a tax position be recognized or derecognized based
                             on a "more-likely-than-not" threshold. this applies to positions taken or expected
                             to be taken in a tax return. the organization does not believe its consolidated
                             financial statements include, or reflect, any uncertain tax positions.

                             the organization's form 990, return of organization exempt from income taxes,
                             is subject to examination by the taxing authorities generally for three years after
                             filing.
                                                         7
34 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                        and us sif foundation
        notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)
                                                december 31, 2013

note a - organization and summary of significant accounting policies
         (continued)

cash and cash
equivalents         the organization considers as cash and cash equivalents amounts in the checking
                    and operating accounts.

property and
equipment           the organization capitalizes all property and equipment acquisitions of $1,000
                    and above. property and equipment are recorded at cost, if purchased, or fair
                    market value at date of donation, if contributed. depreciation is provided on a
                    straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

functional
expense
allocation          the costs of providing various programs and other activities have been
                    summarized on a functional basis in the statement of activities. accordingly,
                    certain costs have been allocated among the programs and supporting services
                    benefited.

reclassifications   certain 2012 amounts have been reclassified for comparative purposes.

contributions       contributions are recorded in unrestricted, temporarily restricted or permanently
                    restricted net assets, depending on the existence and/or nature of any donor
                    restrictions. when a donor restriction expires, that is, when a stipulated time
                    restriction ends or purpose restriction is accomplished, temporarily restricted net
                    assets are reclassified to unrestricted net assets and reported in the statement of
                    activities as net assets released from restrictions. temporarily restricted support is
                    recorded as unrestricted support if the restriction is met in the same accounting
                    period as the support is received.
grants
receivable          grants receivable are considered to be fully receivable by management and
                    accordingly no allowance for doubtful accounts is necessary.

estimates           the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting
                    principles generally accepted in the united states of america requires management
                    to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
                    liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
                    financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
                    reporting period. actual results could differ from those estimates.

deferred revenue    deferred revenue consists of membership dues and sponsorship revenue received
                    in advance of the applicable calendar year or event.

prior year
information         the consolidated financial statements include certain prior year summarized
                    comparative totals as of and for the year ended december 31, 2012. such
                    information does not include sufficient detail to constitute a presentation in
                    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of
                    america. accordingly, such information should be read in conjunction with the
                    consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2012, from
                    which the summarized information was derived.
                                                 8
                                                       2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 35

              us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                      and us sif foundation
                      notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)
                                                              december 31, 2013

             note b - pension plan

             the us sif maintains a 401(k) plan (the plan) for all employees of the us sif. under the terms of the
             plan, the us sif makes a safe harbor match and a discretionary contribution for employees participating
             in the plan. all employees are eligible to participate upon employment. for the year ended december 31,
             2013, the us sif made contributions of approximately $32,200 to the plan.


             note c - lease commitments

             the us sif and the foundation conduct their operations from a leased facility. the current lease expires
             on april 30, 2014. in the normal course of operations, operating leases are generally renewed or replaced
             by other leases. under the terms of the lease, the base rent increases annually based on scheduled
             increases provided for in the lease. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of
             america (gaap) all rental payments, including fixed rent increases, are recognized on a straight-line
             basis over the term of the lease.

             future minimum rental payments required under the operating lease are as follows:

                             year ending december 31,                                                          amount

                            2014 (current lease expires on april 30, 2014)                                     $ 26,128

                            total                                                                              $ 26,128

             rent expense for the organization for the year ended december 31, 2013 was approximately $76,900.
             during 2013, the us sif subleased an office space to another organization and received rental income of
             approximately $2,800 under the sublease agreement. the sublease agreement ended as of march 31, 2013.


             note d - related party transactions

             the foundation made a subgrant of approximately $38,400 to the initiative for responsible investment at
             harvard university (the initiative) under the terms of a grant it received from the ford foundation. a senior
             employee of the initiative was a board member of the foundation during 2013.


             note e - commitments

             during 2013, the us sif entered in to a contract for hotel and conference space for a 2014 conference.
             the contract contains a clause whereby the us sif is liable for liquidated damages in the event of
             cancellation based upon a percentage of the contract price determined by the length of time between the
             cancellation and the event date. management does not believe any cancellation under this contract will
             occur and result in a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.




                                                                  9
36 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                        and us sif foundation
        notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)
                                                december 31, 2013

note f - concentrations
the us sif and the foundation maintain bank accounts at financial institutions which at times during the
year exceeded the federal deposit insurance corporation limit. management believes the risk in this
situation to be minimal.

approximately, 92% of contributions to the foundation were received from two donors during the year
ended december 31, 2013.


note g - temporarily restricted net assets

as of december 31, 2013, the foundation's temporarily restricted net assets were available for the following
purposes:

 purpose                                                                                         amount

 timing restriction                                                                              $ 10,000
 total temporarily restricted net assets                                                         $ 10,000

for the year ended december 31, 2013, net assets were released from donor restrictions by incurring
expenses satisfying the purpose restrictions specified by donors as follows:

 purpose                                                                                         amount

 addressing barriers to community development finance                                            $ 48,177
 mission in the market place - research                                                            10,000
 net assets released from restrictions                                                           $ 58,177


note h - subsequent events

subsequent events were evaluated through may 18, 2014, which is the date the consolidated financial
statements were available to be issued.

subsequent to year end, the us sif entered into a lease for office space and is obligated under the lease
agreement through november 2021. under the terms of the lease the base rent increases annually based
on scheduled increases provided for in the lease.

future minimum rental payments required under the lease are as follows:

                year ending december 31,                                                         amount
               2014                                                                                $ 9,293
               2015                                                                               112,914
               2016                                                                               115,737
               2017                                                                               118,630
               2018                                                                               121,596
               there after                                                                        372,287
               total                                                                            $ 850,457

                                                    10
                                                     2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 37

              us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                      and us sif foundation
                      notes to consolidated financial statements (continued)
                                                              december 31, 2013

             note h - subsequent events (continued)

             subsequent to year end, the us sif entered in to a three year employment agreement (agreement) with
             its chief executive officer (ceo). if the ceo is terminated for any reason other than cause, as defined in
             the agreement, the us sif shall comply with the terms stipulated in the agreement.




                                                                 11
38 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 39

            us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                                    and us sif foundation
                           consolidating statement of financial position
                                                            december 31, 2013
                                                                 us sif           us sif    eliminating consolidated
                                                              the forum        foundation       entries        total

            assets

            current assets

            cash and cash equivalents                          $ 445,102        $ 130,393                  $ 575,495
            grants receivable                                                      10,000                     10,000
            due from us sif foundation                              16,281                    $ (16,281)          -0-
            prepaid expenses                                        24,218                                    24,218

            total current assets                                 485,601          140,393      (16,281)      609,713

            property and equipment

            computers and phone equipment                           17,005                                    17,005
            accumulated depreciation
              and amortization                                      (10,304)                                 (10,304)

            total property and equipment                              6,701           -0-           -0-        6,701

            security deposit                                          5,774                                    5,774

            total assets                                       $ 498,076        $ 140,393     $ (16,281)   $ 622,188


            liabilities and net assets

            current liabilities

            accounts payable and accrued expenses                $ 40,171           $ 552                   $ 40,723
            due to us sif forum                                                    16,281     $ (16,281)          -0-
            deferred revenue                                        94,710         39,000                    133,710
            deferred rent                                            1,541                                     1,541

            total current liabilities                          $ 136,422           55,833      (16,281)      175,974

            net assets

            unrestricted                                         361,654           74,560                    436,214
            temporarily restricted                                                 10,000                     10,000

            total net assets                                     361,654           84,560           -0-      446,214

            total liabilities and net assets                   $ 498,076        $ 140,393     $ (16,281)   $ 622,188




                                                               13
40 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

us sif: the forum for sustainable and responsible investment
                                          and us sif foundation
                       consolidating statement of activities
                                for the year ended december 31, 2013
                                         us sif       us sif      eliminating    consolidated
                                      the forum    foundation         entries           total

revenues

membership dues                        $ 531,975     $ 270,455                       $ 802,430
contributions                                          180,200                         180,200
sponsorship, other than events                           3,000                           3,000
event related income                    413,971                                        413,971
interest income                             273            145                             418
course registration                                     31,410                          31,410
publications                                             9,675                           9,675
other revenue                             2,913            243                           3,156

total revenues                          949,132        495,128           $ -0-       1,444,260

expenses

salaries                                391,747        240,024                        631,771
employee benefits and payroll taxes      67,717         40,950                        108,667
recruitment and training                    298            173                            471
payroll and benefits administration       3,481          2,100                          5,581
consulting                              118,230         80,117                        198,347
grant expense                                           38,392                         38,392
office expenses                          76,453         66,046                        142,499
sif - sponsored events                  190,711          4,229                        194,940
staff meals, lodging and travel          18,381          5,093                         23,474
financial services and fees              10,588          5,569                         16,157
miscellaneous                                              941                            941

total expenses                          877,606        483,634             -0-       1,361,240

change in net assets                     71,526         11,494             -0-         83,020

net assets, beginning of year           290,128         73,066             -0-        363,194

net assets, end of year                $ 361,654       $ 84,560          $ -0-       $ 446,214




                                         142013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 41

                                                                                                           gri index


 in accordance with the gri’s g3 guidelines, us sif is including the following gri index to assist readers in
 locating particular information on us sif pertaining to the gri’s indicators.

  indicator no.        description                                                   us sif disclosure

  1. strategy and analysis

  1.1 	statement from the most senior decision-maker of the                         see message from the ceo and chair,
        organization (e.g., ceo, chair, or equivalent senior                         pages 3–4
        position) about the relevance of sustainability to the
        organization and its strategy.

  1.2                  description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.	us sif advances the field of sustainable and
                                                                              responsible investing (sri) through several
                                                                              strategic approaches detailed in this report.

  2. organizations profile

  2.1                  name of the organization. 	us sif: the forum for sustainable and
                                                   responsible investment, and the us sif
                                                   foundation.

  2.2                  primary brands, products and/or services.	us sif is a membership association that provides
                                                                  services to its members, creates external
                                                                  knowledge of sri through research, media, policy
                                                                  engagement and professional education, and
                                                                  holds conferences and other types of in-person
                                                                  and virtual events to inform its members and
                                                                  assist them in networking. it conducts much of its
                                                                  research, program and public education efforts
                                                                  through the us sif foundation.

  2.3                  operational structure of the organization, including          see report overview and boundary on page ii.
                       main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries,
                       and joint ventures.

  2.4                  location of the organization’s headquarters.                  washington, dc, usa

  2.5                  number of countries where the organization operates,          one (united states)
                       and names of countries with either major operations or
                       that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues
                       covered in the report.

  2.6                  nature of ownership and legal form.	dual non-profit 501(c)(6) membership association
                                                            and 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. see
                                                            page ii.

  2.7                  markets served (including geographic breakdown,         professionals, firms, institutions and
                       sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries).	organizations engaged in sustainable and
                                                                               responsible investing in the united states.



42 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.    description                                                     us sif disclosure

2.8              scale of reporting organization, including:                     seven full-time and one part-time employee, and
                 –number of employees; –net sales (for private sector            304 members at the end of 2013; see financials
                 organizations) or net revenues (for public sector               on pages 28–41.
                 organizations); –total capitalization broken down in terms
                 of debt and equity (for private sector organizations);
                 and –quantity of products or services provided.

  significant changes during the reporting period regarding
2.9                                                              none
  its size, structure, or ownership including: –the location of,
  or changes in operations, including facility openings,
  closings, and expansions; and –changes in the share capital
	structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and
  alteration operations (for private sector organizations).

2.10             awards received in the reporting period.                        none

3. report parameters

report profile

3.1              reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for               calendar year 2013
                 information provided.

3.2              date of most recent previous report (if any).	us sif produced its most recent gri report
                                                                for calendar year 2012. it produced its first gri
                                                                report for calendar year 2009, its second in 2010
                                                                and its third in 2011.

3.3              reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.).                       annual

3.4              contact point for questions regarding the report megan smith
                 or its contents.	public affairs and events associate
                                                                  us sif
                                                                  1660 l street, nw, suite 306
                                                                  washington, dc 20036
                                                                  t: (202) 747-7820
                                                                  f: (202) 775-8686
                                                                  msmith@ussif.org

report scope and boundary

3.5              process for defining report content, including:                 staff review
                 –determining materiality; –prioritizing topics within the
                 report; and –identifying stakeholders the organization
                 expects to use the report.

3.6              boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions,             entire organization
                 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).
                 see gri boundary protocol for further guidance.

3.7              state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary         not applicable
                 of the report.




                                                               2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 43

  indicator no.        description                                                     us sif disclosure

  3.8                  basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased     not applicable
                       facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that
                       can significantly affect comparability from period to period
                       and/or between organizations.

  3.9                  data measurement techniques and the bases of             us sif used guidelines and tools from the
                       calculations, including assumptions and techniques       greenhouse gas protocol developed by the
                       underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the world resource institute and the world business
                       indicators and other information in the report.	council for sustainable development to calculate
                                                                                its carbon footprint.

  3.10                 explanation of the effect of any restatements of information none
                       provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such
                       restatement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base
                       years/periods, nature of business measurement methods).

  3.11                 significant changes from previous reporting periods in the      none
                       scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in
                       the report.

  3.12                 table identifying the location of the standard disclosures      this gri index
                       in the report.

  assurance

  3.13                 policy and current practice with regard to seeking external us sif plans to submit its annual report to gri
                       assurance for the report. if not included in the assurance  to verify its reporting level. the financial
                       report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the  information presented on pages 30–41 was
                       scope and basis of any external assurance provided. also    audited by an independent accounting firm.
                       explain the relationship between the reporting organization us sif at this time does not have plans to submit
                       and the assurance provider(s).	the other portions of the report for independent
                                                                                   verification.

  4. governance, commitments and engagement

  governance

  4.1                  governance structure of the organization, including             see governance section of this report on
                       committees under the highest governance body                    pages 5–7.
                       responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy
                       or organizational oversight.

  4.2                  indicate whether the chair of the highest governance            us sif separates its chair and ceo positions.
                       body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function
                       within the organization’s management and the reasons
                       or this arrangement).

  4.3                  for organizations that have a unitary board structure,  see governance section of this report on
                       state the number of members of the highest governance   pages 5–7.
                       body that are independent and/or non-executive members.




44 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.     description                                                   us sif disclosure

4.4               mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide   us sif does not have shareholders.
                  recommendations or direction to the highest governance us sif members and staff have the ability to
                  body.	make recommendations to board members.
                                                                         us sif also holds an annual, in-person meeting
                                                                         for its board directors, members and staff, and
                                                                         members elect the board. (see board practices
                                                                         on pages 5–7).

4.5               linkage between compensation for members of the               us sif’s board directors are not compensated.
                  highest governance body, senior managers, and executives      the ceo’s compensation is approved by the
                  (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s    board and is tied closely to the organization
                  performance (including social and environmental               meeting its strategic goals, which are outlined
                  performance).                                                 on page 10.

4.6               processes in place for the highest governance body to         the board has a conflict of interest policy that is
                  ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.                     available to the public upon request.

4.7               process for determining the qualifications and expertise of   see governance section of this report on
                  the members of the highest governance body for guiding        pages 5–7.
                  the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental,
                  and social topics.

4.8               internally developed statements of mission or values,  see the policies and practices section of this
                  codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, report on pages 24–27. see also us sif’s
                  environmental, and social performance and the status   mission statement and vision on page ii, along
                  of their implementation.	with its five strategic goals for 2013 through 2015
                                                                         on page 10.

4.9               procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing      see governance section of this report on
                  the organization’s identification and management of           pages 5–7.
                  economic, environmental, and social performance,
                  including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence
                  or compliance with internationally agreed standards,
                  codes of conduct, and principles.

4.10              processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s        see governance section of this report on
                  own performance, particularly with respect to economic,       pages 5–7.
                  environmental, and social performance.

commitments to external initiatives

4.11              explanation of whether and how the precautionary              not applicable.
                  approach or principle is addressed by the organization.

4.12              externally developed economic, environmental, and social while not a signatory to other initiatives, us sif
                  charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the  frequently works in partnership with other
                  organization subscribes or endorses.	members of the global sustainable investment
                                                                           alliance, as well as ceres, the interfaith center
                                                                           on corporate responsibility, the investor
                                                                           network on climate risk and the un principles
                                                                           for responsible investment. us sif also has
                                                                           coordinated policy work with americans for
                                                                           financial reform, corporate reform coalition,
                                                                           the council of institutional investors and other
                                                                           organizations.


                                                            2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 45

  indicator no.        description                                                 us sif disclosure

  4.13                 memberships in associations (such as industry               see above. note that while us sif is involved in
                       associations) and/or national/international advocacy        the above organizations and participates in
                       organizations in which the organization: –has positions     several of their initiatives, it does not have
                       in governance bodies; –participates in projects or          positions on their governance bodies.
                       committees; –provides substantive funding beyond routine
                       membership dues; –views membership as strategic.

  stakeholder engagement

  4.14                 list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.	us sif’s primary stakeholders are its members.
                                                                                a list of members is available at
                                                                                http://www.ussif.org/af_memberdirectory.asp.

                                                                                   us sif’s other primary stakeholders are its
                                                                                   employees. us sif staff set goals for the year
                                                                                   and are evaluated against those goals. the
                                                                                   board regularly evaluates the ceo’s performance.
                                                                                   staff is welcome to report recommendations and
                                                                                   concerns to the board, as well.

                                                                                   us sif also conducts policy work in washington,
                                                                                   dc, and therefore regularly meets with members
                                                                                   of congress and their staffs, in addition to
                                                                                   officials of several regulatory organizations within
                                                                                   the us government, including the environmental
                                                                                   protection agency, the department of labor and
                                                                                   the securities and exchange commission.

  4.15                 basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with members: us sif is a membership association,
                       whom to engage.	and its mission, strategy and operating plans are
                                                                                   largely developed in consultation with the board.
                                                                                   members—through their dues and sponsorship
                                                                                   of key programs—provide a significant portion of
                                                                                   us sif’s annual revenues.

                                                                                   employees: us sif would not be able to fulfill
                                                                                   its mission, strategic objectives and operating
                                                                                   plan without its employees.

                                                                                   legislators and regulators: in order to advance
                                                                                   responsible investing practices, it is necessary at
                                                                                   times to advocate for legislative and regulatory
                                                                                   changes, and to educate policymakers on these
                                                                                   issues.

  4.16                 approaches to stakeholder engagement, including            us sif engages all of its members through its
                       frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder         communications, including electronic discussion
                       group. also please indicate the principles formulated at   groups and reports, as well as events, including
                       corporate level that guide your company’s stakeholder      teleconferences, conferences and member
                       engagement at site level. please attach/provide supporting receptions. us sif also holds an annual
                       documents or indicate website.	in-person meeting for its members and surveys
                                                                                  its members periodically on their evaluation of us
                                                                                  sif’s services and priorities. see also comments
                                                                                  related to 4.14 above.


46 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.    description                                                   us sif disclosure

4.17             key topics and concerns that have been raised through us sif’s staff and members, through
                 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has  participation in various committees and working
                 responded to those key topics and concerns, including groups, and by responding to member surveys,
                 through its reporting.	can identify and work on key topics and
                                                                       initiatives. for example, due to a continuing
                                                                       increase in demand for sri education for the
                                                                       financial industry, us sif launched its inaugural
                                                                       online course on sustainable and responsible
                                                                       investing and began exploring the option of a
                                                                       certification program. us sif also met member
                                                                       requests for greater initiatives on diversity
                                                                       and inclusion in the sri field by establishing a
                                                                       diversity task force.

management approach and performance indicators

economic

economic: disclosure on management approach

ec               disclosure on management approach provide a             us sif is a membership organization that
                 concise disclosure on the management approach items     represents professionals, firms, institutions and
                 outlined below with reference to the following economic organizations engaged in sustainable and
                 aspects:                                                responsible investing in the united states. it
                 • economic performance;                                 measures its economic performance in part
                 • market presence; and                                  by the number of members it has, the dues it
                 • indirect economic impacts.	collects each year and its financial position at
                                                                         year end. a summary of these dues is reviewed
                                                                         in the financial section of this report on
                                                                         pages 28–41.

economic performance indicators

aspect: economic performance

ec1              direct economic value generated and distributed, including see financials on pages 28–41.
                 revenues, operating costs, employee compensation,
                 donations and other community investments, retained
                 earnings, and payments to capital providers and
                 governments.

ec2              financial implications and other risks and opportunities for us sif believes climate change is a considerable
                 the organization’s activities due to climate change.	risk for its operations and the planet. it is trying
                                                                              to limit its own carbon footprint, while advocating
                                                                              for constructive climate change and energy
                                                                              legislation on capitol hill as well as regulatory
                                                                              changes.

ec3              coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan us sif does not have a defined benefit plan.
                 obligations.	it operates a 401(k) defined contribution plan for
                                                                     its employees, as noted on page 27.

ec4              significant financial assistance received from government.    none




                                                           2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 47

  indicator no.        description                                                  us sif disclosure

  aspect: market presence

  ec5                  range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared the federal minimum wage in the united states
                       to local minimum wage at significant locations        is $7.25, and the minimum wage in washington,
                       of operation.	dc, where all of us sif’s employees work, is
                                                                             $8.25. based on a 40-hour workweek, us sif’s
                                                                             lowest paid employee earns significantly greater
                                                                             than double the minimum wage.

  ec6                  policy, practices, and proportion of spending on us sif taps local suppliers for it projects and
                       locally-based suppliers at significant locations for catering local events. in addition, it contracts
                       of operation.	for catering and other services for events
                                                                        outside of the washington metropolitan area. it
                                                                        contracted with a membership consultant based
                                                                        in new york during 2013. us sif also contracted
                                                                        with a government relations firm in washington,
                                                                        dc, and an it firm in virginia. in 2013, us sif
                                                                        purchased computer equipment from texas-
                                                                        based dell and office supplies from quill, which
                                                                        is based in philadelphia. us sif does not have
                                                                        official policies in this area, although it looks for
                                                                        responsible suppliers that embrace sustainability
                                                                        practices. it also does not have an estimate
                                                                        for the percentage of its spending with local,
                                                                        washington metropolitan area businesses.

  ec7                  procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior the majority of us sif staff lived in the
                       management hired from the local community at         washington metropolitan area before they were
                       significant locations of operation.	hired, although us sif has no rules restricting its
                                                                            geographic area for recruiting.

  aspect: indirect economic impacts

  ec8                  development and impact of infrastructure investments         not applicable
                       and services provided primarily for public benefit through
                       commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement.

  ec9                  understanding and describing significant indirect   us sif and us sif foundation jointly spent
                       economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.	$740,438 on salaries, benefits and payroll taxes
                                                                           in 2013, their greatest economic impact. they
                                                                           also paid $236,739 to consultants for a range of
                                                                           grant-related and other services in 2013. us sif
                                                                           has not applied a multiplier effect to calculate
                                                                           the true economic impact of this spending. it is
                                                                           investigating methods for 2014.




48 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.    description                                                   us sif disclosure

environmental

environmental: disclosure on management approach

en               disclosure on management approach provide                     see discussion on policies and practices on
                 a concise disclosure on the management approach               pages 24–27.
                 items outlined below with reference to the following
                 environmental aspects:
                 • materials;
                 • energy;
                 • water;
                 • biodiversity;
                 • emissions, effluents, and waste;
                 • products and services;
                 • compliance;
                 • transport; and
                 • overall.

environmental performance indicators

en1              materials used by weight or volume. see indicator             us sif and the us sif foundation jointly used
                 protocol for guidance on calculation.                         approximately 100 reams of paper in 2013.

en2              percentage of materials used that are recycled 100 percent of the paper used at us sif contains
                 input materials	recycled content. us sif also recycles all paper,
                                                                toner cartridges and electronic equipment.

aspect: energy

en3              direct energy consumption by primary energy source.           none

en4              indirect energy consumption by primary source.                electricity: 172.31400 gigajoules

en5              energy saved due to conservation and efficiency it is us sif office procedure to turn off all lights
                 improvements.	and non-dedicated server computer equipment
                                                                 every evening. us sif’s offices use fluorescent
                                                                 and compact-fluorescent bulbs to conserve
                                                                 energy, and the office owner, us sif member
                                                                 self-help, has undertaken several other energy
                                                                 conservation initiatives, including placing motion
                                                                 detectors on lights in many common areas.

en6              initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable          none
                 energy-based products and services, and reductions
                 in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.

en7              initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption             see above
                 and reductions achieved.

aspect: water

en8              total water withdrawal by source.                             none

en9              water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. none

en10             percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. none


                                                             2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 49

  indicator no.        description                                                   us sif disclosure

  aspect: biodiversity

  en11                 location and size of land owned, leased, managed              none
                       in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high
                       biodiversity value outside protected areas.

  en12                 description of significant impacts of activities, products,   none
                       and services on biodiversity in protected areas and
                       areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.

  en13                 habitats protected or restored.                               none

  en14                 strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing    none
                       impacts on biodiversity.

  en15                 number of iucn red list species and national                  none
                       conservation list species with habitats in areas affected
                       by operations, by level of extinction risk.

  aspect: emissions, effluents and waste

  en16                 total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions based on our calculations and assumptions,
                       by weight.	us sif’s and us sif foundation’s combined
                                                                          carbon footprint is the equivalent of 18.913
                                                                          metric tons of co2-e.

  en17                 other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions              not applicable
                       by weight.

  en18                 initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and us sif staff strives to conserve energy and
                       reductions achieved.	reduce consumption of paper products. us sif’s
                                                                          conference programs also seek environmentally
                                                                          responsible venues. us sif participates in the
                                                                          washington metropolitan area transit authorities’
                                                                          smart benefits program to encourage its staff
                                                                          to use public transportation, and us sif staff
                                                                          all rode public transportation to work or walked
                                                                          during the first half of 2013. during the second
                                                                          half of 2013 one staff member drove to work after
                                                                          moving to a new location. (also see policies and
                                                                          practices on pages pages 24–27).

  en19                 emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.            none

  en20                 nox, sox, and other significant air emissions by type         none
                       and weight.

  en21                 total water discharge by quality and destination.             none

  en22                 total weight of waste by type and disposal method.	not calculated, although information on paper
                                                                           use and an estimate of us sif’s carbon footprint
                                                                           is offered in the policies and practices section of
                                                                           this report on pages 24–27.

  en23                 total number and volume of significant spills.                none



50 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.       description                                                    us sif disclosure

en24                weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated          none
                    waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel
                    convention annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of
                    transported waste shipped internationally.

en25                identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of    none
                    water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by
                    the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff.

aspect: products and services

en26                initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products all of us sif’s marketing and member materials,
                    and services, and extent of impact mitigation.	if printed at all, were done so on paper containing
                                                                              at least 30 percent recycled content.

en27                percentage of products sold and their packaging us sif sells reports from time to time. us sif
                    materials that are reclaimed by category.	encourages recycling, but it does not track the
                                                                    percentage of its printed reports or promotional
                                                                    materials recycled by end users.

aspect: compliance

en28                monetary value of significant fines and total number of        $0
                    non-monetary sanctions/convictions for non-compliance
                    with environmental laws and regulations.

aspect: transport

en29                significant environmental impacts of transporting              none
                    products and other goods and materials used for the
                    organization’s operations, and transporting members
                    of the workforce.

aspect: overall

en30                total environmental protection expenditures and                $0
                    investments by type.

labor

labor: disclosure on management approach

la                  disclosure on management approach                           us sif supports the ilo’s core conventions as
                    provide a concise disclosure on the following management enshrined in the ilo’s fundamental principles
                    approach items with reference to the labor aspects listed and rights at work. also, see organizational
                    below. the ilo tripartite declaration concerning            policies and practices on pages 24–27.		
                    multinational enterprises and social policy (in particular
                    the eight core conventions of the ilo) and the organization
                    for economic co-operation and development guidelines
                    for multinational enterprises, should be the primary
                    reference points.
                    • employment;
                    • labor/management relations;
                    • occupational health and safety;
                    •training and education; and
                    • diversity and equal opportunity.		

                                                               2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 51

  indicator no.        description                                                 us sif disclosure

  labor practices and decent work performance indicators

  aspect: employment

  la1                  total workforce by employment type, employment seven full-time employees and one part-time
                       contract, and region.	employee in washington, dc, performing
                                                                      administrative, managerial, research, writing
                                                                      and policy work. none of the eight employees
                                                                      were on temporary contracts.

  la2                  total number and rate of employee turnover by age no employees left us sif in 2013. all employees
                       group, gender, and region.	were based in the washington, dc, metro
                                                                         area. us sif had one male and seven female
                                                                         employees. at the end of 2013, one employee
                                                                         was 20 to 29 years of age, four were 30 to 39
                                                                         years of age, one was 40 to 49 years of age, and
                                                                         two were 50 to 59 years of age.

  la3                  benefits provided to full-time employees that are not employer-subsidized health, disability and dental
                       provided to temporary or part-time employees, by      insurance, and sabbatical benefits are available to
                       major operations.	all employees who work at least 30 hours a week.

  aspect: labor/management relations

  la4                  percentage of employees covered by collective               0 percent
                       bargaining agreements

  la5                  minimum notice period(s) regarding significant              us sif does not have a policy addressing
                       operational changes, including whether it is specified      significant operational changes for employees.
                       in collective agreements.

  aspect: occupational health and safety

  la6                  percentage of total workforce represented in formal         0 percent
                       joint management-worker health and safety committees
                       that help monitor and advise on occupational health
                       and safety programs.

  la7                  rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and       us sif had no work-related accidents, injuries
                       absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities     or fatalities in 2013.
                       by region. please include industry benchmarks, if available,
                       in additional comments.

  la8                  education, training, counseling, prevention, and            none
                       risk-control programs in place to assist workforce
                       members, their families, or community members
                       regarding serious diseases.

  la9                  health and safety topics covered in formal agreements       not applicable
                       with trade unions.




52 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.     description                                                  us sif disclosure

aspect: training and education

la10              average hours of training per year per employee by senior us sif staff train and mentor junior staff
                  employee category.	weekly. staff members, from time to time, are
                                                                     given the opportunity to attend conferences,
                                                                     classes and other types of trainings to enhance
                                                                     their professional development. staff goals
                                                                     include a plan for professional growth. both
                                                                     senior and junior staff average five hours per
                                                                     employee per year in training as defined by gri.

la11              programs for skills management and lifelong learning  us sif staff undergo annual reviews and
                  that support the continued employability of employees set goals for each year that are regularly
                  and assist them in managing career endings.	monitored, including goals that will help them
                                                                        advance professionally. us sif also has a
                                                                        sabbatical leave policy offering employees the
                                                                        opportunity to apply for a one to three week
                                                                        sabbatical following five years of continuous full-
                                                                        time service, with full salary and benefits.

la12              percentage of employees receiving regular performance        100 percent
                  and career development reviews.

aspect: diversity and equal opportunity

la13              composition of governance bodies and breakdown of      board: six white women, one african-american
                  employees per category according to gender, age group, man and 10 white men at the end of 2013.
                  minority group membership, and other indicators        staff: four white women, three asian women
                  of diversity. 	and one half african american and half white
                                                                         caucasian man at the end of 2013. see la2 for
                                                                         age data on staff.

la14              ratio of basic salary of women to men by                     1:1
                  employee category.




                                                             2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 53

  human rights

  human rights: disclosure on management approach

   disclosure on management approach provide
  hr                                                                           see organizational policies and practices on
   a concise disclosure on the following management                            pages 24–27.
   approach items with reference to the human rights
   aspects listed below. the ilo tripartite declaration
   concerning multinational enterprises and social policy
   (in particular the eight core conventions of the ilo which
   consist of conventions 100, 111, 87, 98, 138, 182, 20
   and 1059), and the organization for economic cooperation
   and development guidelines for multinational enterprises
   should be the primary reference points.
   • investment and procurement practices;
   • non-discrimination;
   • freedom of association and collective bargaining;
  	
   • abolition of child labor;
   • prevention of forced and compulsory labor;
   • complaints and grievance practices;
   • security practices; and
   • indigenous rights.

  human rights performance indicators

  aspect: investment and procurement practices

  hr1                  percentage and total number of significant investment   not applicable
                       agreements that include human rights clauses or that
                       have undergone human rights screening.

  hr2                  percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that none, although us sif management considers
                       have undergone screening on human rights and             potential suppliers’ labor and human rights
                       actions taken.	policies and practices when making purchasing
                                                                                decisions.

  hr3                  total hours of employee training on policies and        0
                       procedures concerning aspects of human rights that
                        are relevant to operations, including the percentage
                       of employees trained.




54 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.     description                                                   us sif disclosure

aspect: non-discrimination

hr4               total number of incidents of discrimination and               0
                  actions taken.

aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining

hr5               operations identified in which the right to exercise          none
                  freedom of association and collective bargaining may
                  be at significant risk, and actions taken to support
                  these rights.

aspect: child labor

hr6               operations identified as having significant risk for          none
                  incidents of child labor, and measures taken to
                  contribute to the elimination of child labor.

aspect: forced and compulsory labor

hr7               operations identified as having significant risk for          none
                  incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures
                  taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or
                  compulsory labor.

aspect: security practices

hr8               percentage of security personnel trained in the               none
                  organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects
                  of human rights that are relevant to operations.

aspect: indigenous rights

hr9               total number of incidents of violations involving rights of   none
                  indigenous people and actions taken.

society

society: disclosure on management approach

so                disclosure on management approach provide a             us sif advocates for sustainable and responsible
                  concise disclosure on the following management approach investment. us sif members integrate
                  items with reference to the society aspects:            environmental, social or governance criteria into
                  • community;                                            their investment approaches, and these policies
                  • corruption;                                           and practices are highlighted on us sif’s
                  • public policy;                                        website. us sif also takes a sustainable
                  • anti-competitive behavior; and                        approach to its own operations. see the
                  • compliance.	policies and practices portion of this report on
                                                                          pages 24–27 for more information.




                                                              2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 55

  indicator no.        description                                                    us sif disclosure

  society performance indicators

  aspect: community

  so1                  nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and           none
                       practices that assess and manage the impacts of
                       operations on communities, including entering,
                       operating, and exiting.

  aspect: corruption

  so2                  percentage and total number of business units analyzed during 2014, us sif engaged an outside
                       for risks related to corruption.	accounting firm to audit its financial books for
                                                                              2013. the report of that audit is found on
                                                                              pages 28–41 of this report.

  so3                  percentage of employees trained in organization’s              us sif has a system of internal financial controls
                       anti-corruption policies and procedures.                       in which it trains pertinent employees.

  so4                  actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.          none, as no such incidents took place.

  aspect: public policy

  so5                  public policy positions and participation in public policy see the public policy portion of this report on
                       development and lobbying.	pages 16–18. comment letters on policy issues
                                                                                  written by us sif and sent to various bodies
                                                                                  are available on the public side of our website
                                                                                  at http://www.ussif.org/policyletters. us sif’s
                                                                                  process for determining public policy positions
                                                                                  is available to its members on the members-only
                                                                                  portion of its website.

  so6                  total value of financial and in-kind contributions to          $0
                       political parties, politicians, and related institutions
                       by country.

  aspect: anti-competitive behavior

  so7                  total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,   0
                       anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.

  aspect: compliance

  s08                  monetary value of significant fines and total number of        $0
                       non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws
                       and regulations (e.g. human rights).




56 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.     description                                                  us sif disclosure

product responsibility

product responsibility: disclosure on management approach

pr                disclosure on management approach provide                    us sif does not have any formal policies in
                  a concise disclosure on the following management             this area. it protects its members’ information
                  approach items with reference to the product                 by keeping it on a secure server, and does not
                  responsibility aspects:                                      sell this information to third parties. however
                  • customer health and safety;                                general information about our members is
                  • product and service labeling;                              publicly available.
                  • marketing communications;
                  • customer privacy; and
                  • compliance.

product responsibility performance indicators

aspect: customer health and safety

pr1               life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of      when producing publications, us sif takes into
                  products and services are assessed for improvement,          account recycled content of paper to be used
                  and percentage of significant products and services          and the use of environmentally friendly inks.
                  categories subject to such procedures.

pr2               total number of incidents of non-compliance with             none
                  regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and
                  safety impacts of products and services, by type
                  of outcomes.

aspect: product and service labeling

pr3               type of product and service information required by          none
                  procedures, and percentage of significant products and
                  services subject to such information requirements.

pr4               total number of incidents of non-compliance with             none
                  regulations and voluntary codes concerning product
                  and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.

pr5               practices related to customer satisfaction, including us sif elicits input from its members through
                  results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.	its electronic discussion groups and at its
                                                                        in-person annual meeting. it also sought
                                                                        the feedback of attendees from its in-person
                                                                        working group meetings through an online
                                                                        survey and sent out evaluation surveys for its
                                                                        annual conference and for its fundamentals of
                                                                        sustainable and responsible investment course.

aspect: marketing communications

pr6               programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary     none
                  codes related to marketing communications, including
                  advertising, promotion, and sponsorship.




                                                            2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 57

  indicator no.        description                                                us sif disclosure

  pr7                  total number of incidents of non-compliance with           not applicable
                       regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing
                       communications, including advertising, promotion, and
                       sponsorship, by type of outcomes.

  aspect: customer privacy

  pr8                  total number of substantiated complaints regarding        0
                       breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data.

  aspect: compliance

  pr9                  monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance     $0
                       with laws and regulations concerning the provision
                       and use of products and services

  sector supplement indicators for non-governmental organizations

  ngoss1               involvement of affected stakeholder groups, (as per the members have input into us sif’s policies
                       organization’s mission statement), in the design,       and programs through several channels: board
                       implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies   representation, working groups, annual in-person
                       and programs.	meeting, periodic surveys on events and other
                                                                               priorities, and contacting us sif staff directly.
                                                                               see the governance section of this report
                                                                               on pages 5–7 for more information on the
                                                                               representation of key member groups on
                                                                               the board.

  ngoss2               feedback and complaints mechanism in relation to    as mentioned earlier, us sif elicits regular
                       programs and policies and responsive actions taken, feedback from its members through its electronic
                       including self-noted breaches of policies	discussion groups, annual meeting and
                                                                           occasional surveys. when writing a new strategic
                                                                           plan, which it does every three years, it also
                                                                           elicits member feedback. as a result of this input,
                                                                           us sif’s board approves strategic goals for the
                                                                           organization as part of a three-year plan, which
                                                                           is then implemented through an annual operating
                                                                           plan. the 2013-2015 strategic plan is available
                                                                           to members through us sif’s member center, as
                                                                           are the recent annual reports of us sif and the
                                                                           us sif foundation.

  ngoss3               system for program monitoring and evaluation, (including   us sif staff undertakes an annual review of its
                       measuring program effectiveness and impact), learning,     programs to evaluate their effectiveness in
                       how the organization changes its program as a result and   helping us sif achieve its strategic operational
                       how it reports on this.                                    goals for each year.

  ngoss4               measures in place to ensure due attention to gender      as mentioned earlier, us sif has a board
                       and diversity is integrated into program design and      diversity policy. us sif has a board recruitment
                       implementation, as well as in the monitoring, evaluation document that prioritizes diversity. additionally,
                       and learning cycle	the us sif diversity task force continues its work
                                                                                to help members promote and advance diversity
                                                                                and inclusion in the financial services industry.




58 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org

indicator no.   description                                                  us sif disclosure

ngoss5          process to formulate, communicate, implement and change us sif’s policy committee and board approve
                your advocacy positions and public awareness campaigns. us sif policy priorities and positions.

ngoss6          processes to take into account and coordinate with the us sif’s staff, and at times its board and policy
                activities of other actors.	committee, approve us sif’s coordination of
                                                                       activities with other organizations.

ngoss7          list standards used for tracking and allocating resources. 	us sif’s accounting systems ensure that it
                                                                             allocates funding to the proper pools and
                                                                             programs.

ngoss8          breakdown of funding received by source, including listing   see financial section of this report on
                of 5 largest 1 individual donations                          pages 28–41.

ngoss9          mechanisms for workforce feedback and complaints, as mentioned earlier, all us sif staff undergo
                including number of complaints received and their annual reviews and set goals with their
                resolution.	supervisor, which are monitored throughout the
                                                                  year. in the case of the ceo, us sif’s board
                                                                  reviews the ceo’s performance and goals
                                                                  annually. the board also sets goals for itself
                                                                  and reviews those regularly. us sif has a
                                                                  board-approved personnel handbook with a
                                                                  grievance policy included. no grievances
                                                                  were filed in 2013.




                                                          2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org 59

                                                                      gri statement




60 2013 annual report: us sif and us sif foundation | www.ussif.org


 1660 l street, nw, suite 306
   washington, dc 20036
202-872-5361 • www.ussif.org
