together we’re
sustainably
driven
                 valvoline 2016
                 corporate social
                 responsibility
                 report

01 // ceo letter
02 // our story
03 // our csr approach
04 // people
12 // product
16 // planet
26 // gri
37 // about this report



 together we’re driven to serve
 valvolinetm celebrates the exponential impacts that result from our collective
 efforts. only through the power of a collaborative approach will consequential
 advancements in our areas of focus—people, product and planet—
 be realized. we understand our diverse stakeholders, from associates to
 customers to our communities, have interests that ultimately converge and
 that working together will consistently outperform our efforts alone.

                                                                                         together we’re sustainably driven // ceo letter




as chief executive officer at valvoline,
i am proud to lead such a remarkable
group of people who strive for a more
sustainable future.
when we talk about sustainability at valvoline, we don’t think in
terms of a separate program. it’s simply the way we do business.

since our inception more than 150 years ago, the products
and services we offer have been built on the promise of
                                                                            sam mitchell, ceo
helping everything we touch run better. with our help, engines
run more efficiently, reliably and cleanly — in short, they run
more sustainably.

we look for ways to embed that promise into every aspect of
our worldwide operations:
                                                                            we now have 6 zero-landfill
• people: our culture of community involvement, safety and                facilities and other facilities have
  diversity and inclusion.                                                  achieved substantial reduction in
• product: the sustainability efforts we put into our products.             solid waste generation.
• planet: our goal of reducing our impact on the environment.

these areas represent the most material aspects of our
business, and in turn, they are where we can reap the most
significant results.                                                    at our lexington, kentucky, headquarters, our employees—led by
                                                                        our green team—participate in a robust recycling program. we
people: through the hands-on involvement of our employees,              also focus on energy reduction and in 2014 achieved energy star
we enhance the communities where we work and live by giving of          certification at our former headquarters building. as we transition
our time, talents and money to worthy causes and organizations.         to our new state-of-the-art headquarters, which was designed
we promote an inclusive workplace where our team members and            with sustainability in mind, we’re optimistic the energy-efficiency
our business grow and thrive by bringing diverse viewpoints and         progress we’ve made over the years will continue.
experiences to the table. we also make safety a cornerstone of our
workplace culture.                                                      valvoline’s first corporate social responsibility report provides
                                                                        examples of our efforts, our goals, and our performance in 2016.
product: with valvoline’s long-term membership in the consumer          we will continue our drive for sustainability and report our progress
specialty products association, we subscribe to product care™,          through an annual csr report to be published on our website.
a comprehensive product stewardship program. we continue to
find innovative ways of improving our product offerings, including      we are committed to continuous improvement and our focus on
engineering our packaging to maximize recycled content.                 people, product and planet. it’s our goal to further that progress
                                                                        every day.
planet: in 2016, we made significant strides on our journey
to becoming a more sustainable organization. globally, we
challenged ourselves to prevent as much waste as possible from
going to landfills. we now have six zero-landfill facilities, and our
other sites have substantially reduced the amount of solid waste        samuel j. mitchell, jr.
they generate.                                                          chief executive officer




                                                                                                             valvoline 2016 csr report // 1

our story // together we’re sustainably driven




our story
valvoline inc. (nyse: vvv) is one of the most recognized and respected                 fy2016 sales contributions
premium consumer brands in the global automotive lubricant industry.
in 2016 we became an independent, publicly traded company, yet our heritage
spans 150 years, during which we have become known across multiple
channels for our high-quality products and superior levels of service.

we have significant positions in the united states in all of the key lubricant
                                                                                         51%               24%
sales channels, and also have a growing international presence with our
products sold in approximately 140 countries.
                                                                                       core north      quick lubes
                                                                                        america
our premium branded product and service offerings provide our customers
with solutions that address a wide variety of needs. in addition to our iconic
valvoline-branded passenger car motor oils and other automotive lubricant
products, we provide an array of lubricants used in heavy duty equipment,
as well as automotive chemicals and fluids designed to help improve engine                      25%
performance and lifespan.

in the united states and canada, as of the end of fiscal 2016, our products                  international
were sold to consumers through more than 30,000 retail outlets, to installer
customers in over 12,000 locations, and 1,068 franchised and company-owned
valvoline instant oil changesm (vioc) quick lube centers. around the world,
we serve our customer base through an extensive sales force and technical
support organization, allowing us to leverage our technology portfolio and
customer relationships globally, while meeting customer demands locally.




in the united states
and canada, as of the
end of fiscal 2016, our                 30,000+               12,000+                  1,068
products were sold to                    retail outlets           locations      franchised and company-
                                                                                        owned vioc
consumers in…                                                                       quick lube centers




 valvoline facilities
 see full list




2 // valvoline 2016 csr report

our corporate social                                         values

responsibility (csr)                                         • it all starts with our people
                                                             • safety is always our priority

approach                                                     • we are committed to winning…
                                                               the right way
                                                             • we work hard, celebrate success
                                                               and have fun
at valvoline we strive for greatness in                      • we strive for greatness                vow
all that we do, and are committed to
                                                                                                      our vow is to bring “hands
winning…the right way.                                                                                on expertise” for the benefit
                                                                                                      of our customers every day,
valvoline’s three “v”s—values,                                                                        moving the business forward
vow and vision—drive our culture                                                                      with speed and excellence.
and our plans to build the world’s
                                                    vision
leading engine and automotive
maintenance business.                               we are building the world’s leading engine
                                                    and automotive maintenance business. we
                                                    will accelerate growth around the world by
when we talk about sustainability                   increasing our focus and investment in:
at valvoline, we don’t think of it as
a separate program or initiative. it’s              • the valvoline™ brand, built on superior
ingrained in our culture and the way                  products and service
we do business. we use a theme of                   • the industry’s best retail services model
                                                    • technology that enables speed, innovation
people, product and planet to describe                and increased efficiency in every aspect
our efforts at valvoline and that reflects            of our business
the categories of our corporate social              • strong value-adding relationships with
responsibility report.                                our channel partners




valvoline management systems
from our plant personnel to our ceo, valvoline has            as a result, vioc has one of the lowest incident injury
a passion for our people, product and planet driven           rates in the automotive service industry. valvoline
management systems. this is demonstrated by the high          continues to adhere to the responsible care 14001
attendance and frequency of service center and plant floor    (rc14001) standard as best-in-class for valvoline’s
safety and environmental topic meetings, as well as our       global supply chain’s responsible operations program.
“3p” plant and company management review meetings             the program is a comprehensive certified management
which are personally sponsored by ceo sam mitchell.           system assuring uniform transparent implementation of
valvoline has two distinct management systems to meet         environmental, health, safety and security standards
the unique needs of the vioc retail business and our          globally. this framework helps identify and address risk
supply chain operations.                                      within the valvoline supply chain through documented
                                                              standards and best practices. our responsible operations
at our retail vioc locations, we incorporate ehs into         management system is externally group certified to
superprotm (an internal management system) which covers       rc14001 by the abs group of auditors to ensure
every aspect our retail services business. from day one,      continuous improvement targets and objectives are set,
our employees are trained, tested and certified on these      monitored and audited.
standards as they support and encourage the proper use
of callouts, personal protective equipment, tools, and
system practices to drive superior ehs performance.




                                                                                                   valvoline 2016 csr report // 3

 together
 we’re driven for
 a better society




4 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                      together we’re sustainably driven // people




                           // people
 our core values            the foundation of valvoline’s drive for sustainability
                            is framed by those stakeholders who are committed
                            to winning…the right way. we recognize the
                            importance of nurturing the values in which we
  it all starts with our
          people            believe with each and every employee, customer,
                            and supplier associated with valvoline.

we are committed to         the cornerstone of valvoline’s compliance program
winning…the right way
                            is our global standards of business conduct.
                            the code serves as a resource guide to help all
                            employees make decisions that reflect valvoline’s
  safety is always our
        priority            core values.

                            only through a collective and an all-embracing
we strive for greatness     approach can we truly achieve the significant
                            impacts we strive to accomplish, and a strategic
                            focus on the areas with the greatest needs will help
we work hard, celebrate     produce the greatest results. those opportunities
 success and have fun
                            include commitments to community involvement,
                            workplace safety, diversity and inclusion.


                                                                    valvoline 2016 csr report // 5

people // together we’re sustainably driven




empowering ugandan women through
supplier diversity effort a win-win
volunteers from valvoline spent a day in “hands-on” support of the blessing
basket project, an initiative to reduce poverty in developing countries. our          valvoline empowered
team—representing the st. louis supply chain, vioc and core north america—            168 families in
went to the organization’s headquarters to attach “artisan card” tags to 2,000        uganda with the u.s.
chargers, or decorative platters, hand-woven by women in uganda.
                                                                                      equivalent of $29,000,
                                                                                      enough to educate 104
the chargers, which valvoline purchased, were used as gifts to the 2000
attendees at the annual bmw tier 1 supplier diversity matchmaker event in
                                                                                      students for a year.
greenville, south carolina which we have sponsored since its inception. theresa
carrington, the founder and ceo of the blessing basket project, spoke at the
conference and also praised our support. “combined with our prosperity wages
model, valvoline empowered 168 families in uganda with the u.s. equivalent of
$29,000. that is enough to educate 104 students for a year,” she said. “valvoline’s
commitment went far beyond money as their employees volunteered time to
attach artisan cards to every single item.”

not only were we able to help this most worthy cause, but our involvement in
the bmw event has lead valvoline to several new diverse vendors. “each year
we increase our database of quality suppliers through our participation and
strengthen our connection with the bmw supplier diversity team. it all helps our
journey toward a more diverse supply base that more closely mirrors our diverse
customer base,” noted maree mcminn, procurement manager.




              valvoline team members from
              st. louis, mo attached artisan card
              tags to 2,000 chargers that were
              hand-woven by women in uganda.




6 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                                            together we’re sustainably driven // people




creating new
healthcare facilities
in india
valvoline’s joint-venture partnership with cummins
india, valvoline cummins private limited, endeavored
to significantly improve living conditions in communities
across india by establishing and developing quality
healthcare facilities—muskaan clinics—for truck drivers,
mechanics and their families. our first clinic opened
in 2015 and two additional clinics are projected to be
opened in 2017.                                                    approximately 40,000 people are
                                                                   served in each healthcare facility.
each facility will serve roughly 40,000 people per year.
the muskaan clinics provide quality infrastructure, staff
and medical services on par with the best medical facilities
in the region. the initiative has received overwhelming
support from, and the patronage of, hundreds of fleet
workers and their families. for them, muskaan clinics
have opened the door to a better and healthier life.




promoting a culture of safety
we believe that all injuries, occupational illnesses and incidents are



                                                                                    63%
preventable, and valvoline is committed to operating with a zero-incident
culture. we engage all employees in the workplace and also promote
off-the-job-safety for our employees and their families. we design, build
and operate our facilities to nurture a safe and secure workplace.
                                                                                    reduction in
one example is the recent implementation of valvoline’s powered industrial          injury rate over
truck safety program which leverages technology to help mitigate safety             the last 5 years
issues in our facilities. by installing a wireless management system that
controls access to authorized operators, detects collisions and monitors
equipment operations, we are able to better monitor pre-use inspections
to ensure they are completed prior to operating the equipment. an impact
detection system provides instant notifications to speed response times
to accidents, greatly improving our employees’ care. blue safety light
technology has also been installed on our fork trucks as an added precaution
to help limit accidents caused by hindrances to visibility or hearing.

these examples of technology provide better reporting tools for incident
investigations and more accurate data enabling valvoline to identify the
conditions of the facilities where collisions occur. subsequently, we can
effectively analyze the information and develop specific plans to address
the areas of concern.


                                                                                           valvoline 2016 csr report // 7

                                                        $213,494
                                                         in funds raised by vioc
                                                         employees in 2016




                                                         28
                                                         local children’s miracle
                                                         network hospitals benefited




        “valvoline instant oil change continues to show their
          dedication to helping improve the lives of sick and injured
          kids. we are thrilled to have vioc service centers across
          the country participate to raise funds for pediatric care.”
         john lauck,
         president and ceo of children’s miracle
         network hospitals




8 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                                                     together we’re sustainably driven // people




                                            vioc raises more than $200,000 for
                                            children’s miracle network hospitals
                                            in 2016, company-owned vioc service centers across the u.s. participated
                                            in children’s miracle network hospitals miracle balloon campaign. generous
                                            donations from our team members and customers of vioc raised $213,494
                                            to benefit each of the 28 local children’s miracle network hospitals. “we are
                                            committed to making a difference in the communities where we live and work,”
                                            said matt furcolo, vice president of operations for vioc. “we are a company
                                            that cares about our team members and those team members care about
                                            helping others.”

                                            funds generated during the campaign contributed to the overall fund raising
                                            that supported 32 million patient visits for the 10 million children treated every
“in addition to taking care of our
  customers, we’re equally passionate
                                            year in the network’s hospitals.
  about helping those in our community.”
                                            since 2009, vioc has been a national partner of the organization, raising
–t
  ony puckett,                             over $800,000 for children’s miracle network hospitals. “valvoline instant
 president—quick lubes                      oil change continues to show their dedication to helping improve the lives of
                                            sick and injured kids. we are thrilled to have vioc service centers across the
                                            country participate to raise funds for pediatric care,” said john lauck, president
                                            and ceo of children’s miracle network hospitals.



                                            our commitment to diversity & inclusion
                                            valvoline’s people strategy is designed to help us attract top talent to create
                                            great experiences every day for our stakeholders around the world. a diverse
                                            workforce is critical to generating new ideas and inspiring innovation, and at
                                            valvoline we foster an environment where team members feel valued, engaged
                                            and inspired to do their best work. by leveraging the similarities and differences
                                            that shape each individual, we encourage and promote innovative thinking
                                            and drive the kind of sustainable, competitive advantage that helps valvoline
                                            leverage new opportunities and drive increasing value.

                                            we have an active recruitment program, as part of that effort, to identify and
employee resource groups provide another    attract diverse talent through college recruiting, as well as targeted diversity
way for employees to be heard, valued and   and professional recruiting. led by valvoline team members, valvoline
engaged; and members provide key insight    supports employee resource groups that are designed to further personal and
to the business.
                                            professional development, strengthen networking, volunteerism and community
                                            involvement, and promote diversity within the company. group members
                                            share a common interest, such as race, gender or cultural identity, but
                                            membership is open to all employees.
  total workforce
  by region                                 we also recognize the importance of partnering with a diverse supplier base.
  na    88.3%                               through our supplier diversity program, valvoline works to promote business
  ema    3.5%                               opportunities for certified minority and woman owned business enterprises
  ap     7.6%                               (mwbes) and well as certified veteran businesses that support our
  la     0.5%                               business needs.


  total 100.0%



                                                                                                   valvoline 2016 csr report // 9

                                                                                    500
                                                                                   volunteer hours
                                                                                   per year



                                                                                   14
                                                                                   homes renovated
                                                                                   or built since 2002




     valvoline team members from
     lexington, ky volunteer at local
     habitat for humanity site.




habitat for humanity
habitat for humanity believes in building strength, stability and self-reliance
through shelter, and valvoline has proudly supported that noble cause since           valvoline has provided
2002 by providing over $250,000 in corporate gifts and volunteer hours to date.
                                                                                      over $250,000 in
our employees donate upwards of 500 volunteer hours per year to help build
                                                                                      corporate gifts
and repair our sponsored families’ homes while also contributing furniture and
appliances to habitat for humanity restores.
                                                                                      and volunteer
                                                                                      hours to habitat for
“we are so grateful for the way valvoline has loved their neighborhood through        humanity since 2002
their support of lexington habitat for humanity,” said rachel smith childress,
ceo—lexington habitat for humanity. “at habitat, we talk a lot about loving our
neighbors—all of our neighbors. valvoline is a prime example of a corporation who
does just that.”

internationally, valvoline and lubricantes internacionales de guatemala, central
america, have supported habitat for humanity’s development project, humanity
guatemala. for the past eight years, needed funds have been raised with our
support of a golf tournament “open para la humanidad,” which means “open
for humanity.”

10 // valvoline 2016 csr report

// people
    2016 data & key performance indicators




                63%                 16%
                improvement in      below tprr
                                    industry average
                total preventable
                recordable rate
                (tprr ) since       (based on bls 2015 benchmark)
                2012
                                    vioc




6% improvement in rate of injuries
 rate requiring days away from work


56%
below tprr
industry average
                                                         47%
                                                         improvement in
                                                         tprr in 2016
(based on bls 2015 benchmark)                            in our instant oil
valvoline company wide                                   change facilities




                                                        valvoline 2016 csr report // 11

      together
      we’re driven
      for better
      performance




12 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                    together we’re sustainably driven // product




                      // product
                          the sustainability and product stewardship
dr. john ellis, the       movements popular in today’s business world are
inventor of the first
lubricating oil and       a natural extension and outgrowth of this type of
the originator of the     quality culture. a culture that’s been present for over
valvoline® trademark      150 years within our product development and is
in 1866, was known for
his passion for product   still ingrained in all we do at valvoline.
quality.

one of the tenets
                          our culture of sustainability and product
on which dr. ellis’       stewardship ensures that every bottle of valvoline
products were based       product is delivered as the culmination of our
was that “quality is
no accident, it’s . . .   technology, engineering, manufacturing, and quality,
intentional.”             as well as our commitment to environmental, health
                          and safety considerations. this represents our
                          cumulative “hands-on expertise” all rolled into one
                          package, guaranteeing our products maximize the
                          benefits to our customers and their vehicles, while
                          minimizing impacts on the environment.



                                                                  valvoline 2016 csr report // 13

product // together we’re sustainably driven




premium bluetm extends oil drain intervals
in a breakthrough with potential to deliver substantial cost savings and
sustainability benefits for heavy duty operators and fleet owners, valvoline      product caretm
and its joint venture partner, cummins inc., recently launched valvoline          through valvoline’s long-term
                                                                                  membership in the consumer
premium blue heavy duty engine oil—proven to extend oil drain intervals           specialty products association,
by an additional 10,000 miles.                                                    we subscribe to product caretm
                                                                                  —a comprehensive product
                                                                                  stewardship program. to learn
“we know that when it comes to performance and investment of your engine          more about the program,
and motor oil, everything matters—from the advanced hardware components           visit their website here.
found in the cummins x15 engine, to the innovative formulation found in
valvoline premium blue. it’s not just one or the other,” said roger england,
cummins r&d director of fuels, lubricants, and materials. valvoline premium
blue™ diesel engine oil remains the only recommended oil for all cummins
engines, providing lasting performance and protection.

“together, we’ve integrated our products in a way that benefits our customer,”
 added fran lockwood, chief technology officer at valvoline, “when you
 can extend oil life without reducing performance, that’s going to add up to
 incredible savings over the long haul and make a real impact on the health
 of their equipment and the overall sustainability of the engine.”

premium blue restoretm engine oil is uniquely formulated to provide advanced
engine cleanup in a single service. it benefits the environment primarily by
helping diesel trucks to run cleaner. premium blue restore is approximately
30% biodegradable by method (odec 301b) and is composed
of 40-45% renewable oil. the 2017 cummins x15 engine was
meticulously engineered to provide incredible overall efficiency,
delivering up to 3% base engine fuel economy improvement over
the epa 2013 isx15 engine, and up to a 15-20% improvement
over the epa 2010 model.




     premium blue restore


              30%
        biodegradable by method
               (odec 301b)




       40-45%
       renewable oil composition




14 // valvoline 2016 csr report

environmental performance
of our products
in 2016 valvoline’s mix of engine oil sales shifted by more than 20%
toward lighter viscosity grades that provide additional vehicle fuel
economy. these viscosity grades are recognized by the epa and
the automotive industry to help reduce carbon dioxide equivalent
emissions. valvoline also formulates and distributes products for use
in electric, natural gas, and hybrid cars, trucks and buses as well
as other environmentally friendly technology such as wind turbines.
some of the other functional benefits delivered by valvoline’s products
and services include:


  01                         02                           03

  restoring or               ensuring proper              removing power-
  improving operation        operation of vehicle’s       robbing deposits that
  of the engine and          emissions control            cause decreased fuel
  other vehicle systems      systems                      efficiency and power,
  which improves                                          increased emissions,
  fuel efficiency and                                     and increase
  reduces emissions                                       downtime




  04                         05                           06
  increased longevity        extended change              improved fuel
  of an engine through       intervals which              economy through
  improved lubrication       reduce downtime and          improved lubricant
  and heat transfer          maintenance costs            formulations




 07                          08                           09
 meeting or exceeding        providing vehicle            recycling of
 original equipment          maintenance and              lubricants and other
 manufacturers’              repair services              fluids generated
 specifications and          that help keep our           during maintenance
 increasing our customers’   customers’ vehicles          and repair of our
 confidence that our         running properly and         customers’ vehicles
 products are best for       efficiently
 their vehicles, and the
 environment



                             10
                             designing products, their
                             packaging and application
                             methods, that reduce
                             potential human or animal
                             exposure to the product
                             during storage and use,
                             and reduce post-use
                             emissions and waste




                                                         valvoline 2016 csr report // 15

product // together we’re sustainably driven




rethinking the box with advanced
bay boxtm
valvoline continually seeks new ways to make oil changes easier, faster and
more cost effective. with the advanced bay boxtm, valvoline’s latest bag and
box motor oil packaging system, we’ve set a new standard. redesigned box
packaging will improve shipping and stacking strength, and clear labeling will
help installers to distinguish between products. the redesign will also simplify
box breakdown for easier disposal and recycling once the product is empty.
better product flow and waste minimization will be achieved through an
integrated funneling system and an angled rack design.

a customizable and modular rack design will allow for setups that can
accommodate any service bay size and shape. and even better, the rack
setup will require only one tool to complete. innovation at valvoline means
making things run “better, faster, smarter” and the advanced bay box               see the advanced bay boxtm in action
system is just another step along that path.




                                                      bay box features




                                                            stronger               designed for optimal
                                                          redesigned box           pour and ergonomic
                                                                                           use




                                                       oem specific adapter         customizable and
                                                         for ease of use           modular rack design




16 // valvoline 2016 csr report

// product
   2016 data & key performance indicators




                                               92.5%
 26k+
safety data sheets
                                               of those generated
                                               safety data sheets
                                               were electronic,
                                               greatly reducing
were generated                                 our paper use
during 2016




     1,000+ product skus
          100%
          valvoline 100%
          materials
                    reach
           classified in accordance with the
                    compliant
           global harmonized standard (ghs)




                                                     valvoline 2016 csr report // 17

      together
      we’re driven
      for a better
      environment




18 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                                 together we’re sustainably driven // planet




                                      // planet
                                       over 150 years ago, valvoline was built on the
                                       premise of sustainability, effectively extending the
                                       lives of engines through the application of our
                                       innovative products. we continue those sustainable
                                       efforts on behalf of our customers today, not only
                                       as it relates to the performance of our products,
                                       but on how the manufacture and disposal of those
                                       products affect the environment.

                                       with an understanding of the effects a global
we continue to strive for greatness
     and are committed to:             manufacturing company can have on the
                                       communities in which it operates, valvoline
         monitoring                    continually seeks to mitigate those potential
          progress
                                       environmental impacts. we are committed to
                                       monitoring progress, exploring new initiatives
       exploring new
         initiatives                   and updating our environmental goals as a
                                       company in order to continue the strive for
        updating our
       environmental
                                       greatness. as with each aspect of our people,
           goals                       product, planet focus, a collaborative effort
                                       is required to truly hit our marks.



                                                                              valvoline 2016 csr report // 19

planet // together we’re sustainably driven




environmentally sustainable facilities
our continued focus on reducing the environmental footprint of valvoline
facilities has resulted in significant improvements in our global operations.              at our lexington
from water and waste management to energy consumption, we have made                        headquarters we
great progress on these fronts. at our lexington headquarters we achieved                  achieved energy
energy star certification in 2014 through a number of initiatives including:
                                                                                           star certification
•	the replacement of fluorescent and halogen lights with led fixtures in the
   building and parking lot;
•	the addition of photo cell sensors to outdoor lighting reducing operation
   only from dusk to dawn;
•	adjusting the operation of cooling towers to reduce water usage;
•	the addition of variable frequency drives to equipment to reduce motor
   speed; and
•	the replacement of a gas-fired boiler and a hot-water tank with high-efficiency
   boilers and a rebuilt chiller adding a frequency drive.

“we have worked extremely hard to identify and implement modifications to
 drive energy efficiency in our facilities worldwide. our employees have assisted
 our efforts by focusing on energy conservation and waste reduction as part of
 our workplace culture,” noted tim heaberlin, manager, facility services.




                                                                                our new
                                                                                headquarters
                                                                                in 2016 valvoline broke ground on
                                                                                our new, state-of-the-art corporate
                                                                                headquarters in lexington, ky. the
                                                                                building’s design and construction
                                                                                objectives focus on energy efficiency and
                                                                                workplace comfort and productivity by
                                                                                including low volatile organic compound
                                                                                (voc) construction coatings, led
                                                                                lighting, abundant use of natural light,
                                                                                open workspaces, and many other
                                                                                environmentally friendly and employee-
                                                                                centered efforts. we look forward to
                                                                                reporting performance metrics next year
                                                                                from the new headquarters as
     view the time lapse construction of our new building in progress
                                                                                we transition into our new facility.




20 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                    sustainable design
                                    features

                                       structural steel with high
                                       recycled content

                                       high efficiency lighting
                                       and occupancy sensors

                                       tight and well-insulated
                                       building envelope

                                       water-conserving
                                       plumbing fixtures

                                       all-digital mechanical
                                       systems with variable
                                       speed

                                       shallow floorplates
                                       allow more natural light




construction of our new corporate
headquarters in lexington, ky.



                                          valvoline 2016 csr report // 21

     valvoline australia installed a
     solar power generation system
     to effectively reduce its reliance
     on the electrical grid.




solar electrical generation in australia
as part of valvoline’s effort to reduce our environmental footprint globally,


                                                                                       39,500
valvoline australia installed a solar power generation system to effectively
reduce its reliance on the electrical grid. the continent of australia is known for
its abundant sunlight making this location an ideal site to pioneer and test this
innovative technology within valvoline’s global locations.
                                                                                       kwh of electrical
approximately 39,500 kwh of electrical energy was generated over the first             energy was generated
12 months from the solar panels, and all generated electricity was fed back            over the first 12 months
into the plant’s main distribution boards for power use. from an environmental         from solar panels.
and financial perspective the endeavor has been a success as valvoline saved
approximately 34.5 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from being emitted into
the atmosphere annually.


emergency preparedness
valvoline’s historically limited environmental impacts are attributable to our long-
term commitment of continual improvement in our prevention and preparedness
programs. for over twenty years, we have invested significant resources in these
programs including tank upgrades, the relocation of underground piping and
tanks to aboveground locations, and the installation of secondary containment
systems and high level alarms. our storage vessels and piping are visually
inspected on a regular basis with more extensive tank integrity testing conducted
in accordance with our internal and external api standards. our preparedness
program is supported by 1-800-valvoline—our 24-hour, 365-day-a-year line—
along with valvoline injury and incident coordinators, employee response training,
and contractors prepared to respond to any size release. valvoline has a crisis
management plan in place and our sites regularly conduct emergency drills
preparing for a wide range of events from minor to significant.


22 // valvoline 2016 csr report

green team
what happens when a group of like-minded,
environmentally conscious people organize
and work together? with the green team at valvoline,
great things!

led by vince greene, this ever-evolving collaborative
team provides the nimble and spontaneous firepower to
plan and execute our sustainability efforts. our green
team organizes the necessary volunteers for initiatives
such as earth day events, tree plantings, recycling, and
even socially centered efforts around education and
habitat for humanity.

“the culture at valvoline is all about doing things the
 right way, and i’m proud to play a small role in that.
 regardless of the number of people we need to
 achieve our goals, or the difficulty of the task, our
 team members at valvoline always come through,”
 noted greene.




                                                           valvoline employees in
                                                           lexington, ky participate
                                                           in earth day.



                                                              valvoline 2016 csr report // 23

planet // together we’re sustainably driven




zero-landfill program
valvoline is committed to protecting the environment and using our resources
more effectively. this is exemplified in our aspirational goal and performance       over the past five
toward achieving zero-landfill status globally by 2040. valvoline’s waste            years, valvoline sites
minimization program is a mature program that has evolved over the past 25           have recycled
years and our current challenge is to take a “good program” to the next level.
                                                                                     19.8 million pounds
to date, 50% of valvoline’s blending and packaging facilities, 18% of our
                                                                                     while reducing waste
warehouse sites and 33% of our valvoline operations facilities have achieved
zero-landfill status. over the past five years, valvoline sites have recycled
                                                                                     generation by 57%.
19.8 million pounds while reducing waste generation by 57%.

our employees create central collection areas to collect and segregate
miscellaneous waste for recycling to make the process convenient, easy and
sustainable. valvoline uses many of the elements of the lean 5s program
(sort, shine, straighten, standardize and sustain), and these practices are now a
part of our culture. our sites actively pursue source reduction, reuse, recycling
and recovering materials. we have challenged the sites to move waste streams to
recycling or to eliminate them through our source reduction program as even the
smallest of waste streams can add up to significant volumes due to facility scale.
and whenever possible, we engage creative recyclers to help find innovative
solutions like turning oily bottle regrind into railroad ties and pallets.




              valvoline employees create central
              collection areas to collect and
              segregate miscellaneous waste
              for recycling.




24 // valvoline 2016 csr report

// planet
     2016 data & key performance indicators




  4.5m
 gallons of auto fluids
                                  57%
                                 reduction in overall
                                                           0.7%
                                                            reduction in total
recycled by company-              waste generation         energy consumption
     owned vioc                      since 2012                since 2015
   service facilities




97+ preparedness drills conducted


       19.8m                                     environmental impacts:


          pounds
         of recycled materials
                                                        zero
              since 2012                        reportable releases




                                                               valvoline 2016 csr report // 25

gri // together we’re sustainably driven




global reporting initiative (gri) content index
this index was developed to help our interested readers compare the information in valvoline’s online sustainability
report on our website with the global reporting initiative (gri) g4 guidelines.

this report is in accordance with the “core” option of the g4 guidelines.



 profile                     description                                                       reference



general standard disclosures

strategy and analysis

 g4-1                        statement from senior decision-maker                             chairman’s letter


 g4-2                        key impacts, risks and opportunities                             10-k



organizational profile


 g4-3                       name of the organization                                          our story


 g4-4                       primary brands, products, and/or services                         our story


 g4-5                       location of organization’s headquarters                           lexington, ky


 g4-6                       countries of operation                                            our story


 g4-7                       nature of ownership and legal form                                10-k


 g4-8                       markets served                                                    our story, 10-k


 g4-9                       scale of the reporting organization                               10-k


                            total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract
 g4-10                                                                                        people data
                            and region

                                                                                              specific to north america
                                                                                              employee population,
                            percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining    including vioc, 2.1%
 g4-11                      agreements                                                        employees are covered
                                                                                              by collective bargaining
                                                                                              agreements.

 g4-12                      describe the organization’s supply chain                          supply chain management


 g4-13                      significant changes during the reporting period                   10-k




26 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                                                                  together we’re sustainably driven // gri



 profile                     description                                                                      reference



general standard disclosures

organizational profile (continued)

                                                                                                             valvoline supports the
                                                                                                             intent of the precautionary
                                                                                                             principle with regard to
                                                                                                             risk management. we have
                                                                                                             established formal programs
                                                                                                             throughout our organization
                                                                                                             to identify potential impacts
                             whether or how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by          from risks and develop
 g4-14                       the organization                                                                appropriate action plans to
                                                                                                             mitigate those risks. our
                                                                                                             risk management program
                                                                                                             covers all aspects of our
                                                                                                             operations—from design of
                                                                                                             our operations and product
                                                                                                             development and production
                                                                                                             through the distribution of our
                                                                                                             products to our customers.

                             externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters,
 g4-15                       principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or        external commitments
                             endorses


 g4-16                       memberships in associations and/or advocacy organizations                       external commitments




identified material aspects & boundaries

                             entities included in the organization’s consolidated
 g4-17                       financial statements                                                            10-k schedule 1


 g4-18                       process for defining the report content                                         about this report


 g4-19                       list material aspects identified                                                about this report


 g4-20                       aspect boundary within the organization                                         about this report


 g4-21                       aspect boundary outside the organization                                        about this report

                                                                                                             not applicable, 2016
 g4-22                       explanation of any re-statements of information in earlier reports              represents valvoline’s
                                                                                                             first report

                                                                                                             not applicable, 2016
 g4-23                       significant changes from previous reporting periods                             represents valvoline’s
                                                                                                             first report




                                                                                                           valvoline 2016 csr report // 27

gri // together we’re sustainably driven



 profile                     description                                                                    reference



general standard disclosures (continued)

stakeholder agreement

 g4-24                       list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization                        about this report


                             basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to
 g4-25                       engage                                                                        about this report



 g4-26                       approaches to stakeholder engagement                                          about this report


                             key stakeholder topics and concerns and
 g4-27                       organization response                                                         about this report




report profiles

 g4-28                       reporting period                                                              about this report


 g4-29                       date of the most recent previous report                                       about this report


 g4-30                       reporting cycle                                                               about this report


 g4-31                       contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents              about this report

                             table identifying the location of the standard disclosures
 g4-32                       in the report                                                                 about this report


                             policy and practice with regard to external assurance
 g4-33                       for the report                                                                about this report




governance

 g4-34                       governance structure of the organization                                      governance

                             process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social
 g4-35                       topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other        governance
                             employees

                             executive-level position with responsibility for economic, environmental
 g4-36                       and social topics                                                             governance


                             processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest
 g4-37                       governance body on economic, environmental and social topics                  governance


                             composition of the highest governance body and
 g4-38                       its committees                                                                governance


                             report whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an
 g4-39                       executive officer and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s   governance
                             management and the reasons for this arrangement


28 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                                                         together we’re sustainably driven // gri



 profile                 description                                                                    reference



general standard disclosures (continued)

governance (continued)


                         nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body
 g4-40                   and its committees                                                            governance



                         processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts
 g4-41                   of interest are avoided                                                       governance


                         the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the
                         development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose,
 g4-42                   value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related          governance
                         to economic, environmental and social impacts

                         the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance
 g4-43                   body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and                    governance
                         social topics

                         process for the evaluation of the highest governance body’s
 g4-44                   performance particularly with respect to economic, environmental              governance
                         and social performance


                         the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management
 g4-45                   of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities       governance


                         the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the
 g4-46                   organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental          governance
                         and social topics


                         the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic,
 g4-47                   environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities                    governance


                         the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the
 g4-48                   organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects    governance
                         are covered


                         process for communicating critical concerns to the highest
 g4-49                   governance body                                                               governance


                         the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated
 g4-50                   to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address           governance
                         and resolve them


                         remuneration policies for the highest governance body and
 g4-51                   senior executives                                                             governance




 g4-52                   process for determining remuneration                                          governance




                                                                                                      valvoline 2016 csr report // 29

gri // together we’re sustainably driven



 profile                     description                                                                      reference



specific standard disclosures

ethics and integrity


                             describe the organization’s values, principles, standards                       our story, standards of
 g4-56                       and norms of behavior, such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics             business conduct


                             internal and external mechanism for seeking advice on ethical and lawful
                             behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as help lines   our story, standards of
 g4-57
                             or advice lines                                                                 business conduct


                             internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical
                             or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such     our story, standards of
 g4-58                       as escalation through line management, whistle blowing mechanisms or            business conduct
                             hotlines



economic performance


 g4-ec1                      direct economic value generated and distributed                                 annual report


 g4-ec3                      coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations                 10-k (page 85)




environmental

materials

 g4-en1                      materials used by weight or volume                                              174.5 million gallons


 g4-en2                      percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials                  7.4% recycled input materials




energy

                                                                                                             330,800 mmbtu. valvoline
                                                                                                             is continuously seeking out
                                                                                                             opportunities to reduce
                                                                                                             energy consumption and
                                                                                                             greenhouse gases. our
                                                                                                             operations and service
                                                                                                             centers are not energy
                             energy consumption within the organization                                      intensive, therefore,
 g4-en3
                                                                                                             variations in weather tend
                                                                                                             to overshadow conservation
                                                                                                             measures. over an extended
                                                                                                             period of time we expect
                                                                                                             to see a downward trend in
                                                                                                             energy. in 2016 energy use
                                                                                                             was down less than one
                                                                                                             percent.




30 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                                                  together we’re sustainably driven // gri



 profile        description                                                                      reference



environmental (continued)

water

                                                                                                114,000 cubic meters
                                                                                                of total water usage.
                                                                                                valvoline supports water
                                                                                                conservation by installing
                                                                                                low flow fixtures, monitoring
                                                                                                water usage and seeking
                                                                                                opportunities to reduce
                                                                                                water usage. valvoline’s
 g4-en8         total water withdrawal by source                                                product manufacturing
                                                                                                and operations are not
                                                                                                water intensive and rely on
                                                                                                municipal water sources.
                                                                                                the primary sources of water
                                                                                                consumption is sanitation
                                                                                                with lessor quantities used for
                                                                                                lawn maintenance, cleaning
                                                                                                and boilers.



biodiversity

                operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent, to protected          valvoline does not own, lease
 g4-en11        areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas              or manage operational sites
                                                                                                in or adjacent to protected
                description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on     areas or areas of high
 g4-en12        biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside    biodiversity value outside
                protected areas                                                                 protected areas. we also do
                                                                                                not own, lease or manage
                                                                                                operational sites in areas
                                                                                                where habitat restoration
                                                                                                has occurred or in habitat
 g4-en13        habitats protected or restored                                                  protected areas. nor do our
                                                                                                activities result in significant
                                                                                                impacts to these types
                                                                                                of areas.



emissions

                                                                                                total ghg emissions:
                                                                                                36,800 mt.

                                                                                                indirect ghg emissions:
                                                                                                26,600 mt.
 g4-en15        direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1)
                                                                                                direct ghg emissions*:
                                                                                                10,200 mt.

                                                                                                *excludes transportation
                                                                                                ghg emissions

 g4-en16        indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2)                                     data not collected




                                                                                               valvoline 2016 csr report // 31

gri // together we’re sustainably driven



 profile                     description                                                                    reference



environmental (continued)

effluent and waste

                                                                                                           644,284 pounds of overall
 g4-en23                     total weight of waste by type and disposal method                             waste generation waste
                                                                                                           management


 g4-en24                     total number and volume of significant spills                                 none


                             weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed
 g4-en25                     hazardous under the terms of the basel convention annex i, ii, ii, and viii   none
                             and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally




products & services


                             initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products
 g4-en27                     and services                                                                  product stewardship




                                                                                                           valvoline purchased 168.9
                                                                                                           million rigid plastic containers
                             percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are            made up of 25.7 million
 g4-en28                     reclaimed by category                                                         pounds of plastic with 6.4
                                                                                                           million of these pounds, or
                                                                                                           25%, being post consumer
                                                                                                           resin content




compliance


                             monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary          valvoline had incurred no
 g4-en29                     sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations          fines or sanctions




supplier environmental assessment compliance


                             percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
 g4-en32                     environmental criteria                                                        supply chain management




32 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                                                             together we’re sustainably driven // gri



 profile                   description                                                                     reference



social–labor & decent work

employment


                           benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to
 g4-la2                    temporary or part-time employee, by significant location of operation         workforce profile




labor management relations


                           minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including
 g4-la4                    whether these are specified in collective agreements                          workforce profile




occupational health and safety

                                                                                                         valvoline currently has 208
                                                                                                         employees globally that
                           percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–         participate on established
 g4-la5                    worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on           safety committees. this
                           occupational health and safety programs                                       equates to 3.7% of the total
                                                                                                         employee population of the
                                                                                                         company. health and safety

                                                                                                         as a whole, ergonomic
                                                                                                         related injuries accounted
                                                                                                         for 28% of the recordable
                                                                                                         cases. slips, trips, and falls
                           type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and     closely followed with 26%
                           absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by    of the overall case load.
 g4-la6
                           gender                                                                        north america experienced
                                                                                                         the most recordable injuries
                                                                                                         while emea had the highest
                                                                                                         trii rate. valvoline does not
                                                                                                         currently track injury data by
                                                                                                         gender. health and safety

                                                                                                         noise-induced hearing
                                                                                                         loss is the only type of
                                                                                                         occupational disease that
                                                                                                         has been experienced
                                                                                                         by valvoline, primarily
                           workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their         impacting manufacturing
 g4-la7                    occupation                                                                    employees. seasonal heat
                                                                                                         stress is the primary cause
                                                                                                         of occupational illness at
                                                                                                         valvoline, primarily impacting
                                                                                                         vioc employees. health and
                                                                                                         safety

                                                                                                         valvoline does not collect
                                                                                                         this information at this time.
 g4-la8                    health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions       all of our employees are
                                                                                                         covered by valvolines’s safety
                                                                                                         programs.




                                                                                                        valvoline 2016 csr report // 33

gri // together we’re sustainably driven



 profile                     description                                                                     reference



social–labor & decent work (continued)

training and education

                                                                                                            vioc delivers 233 hours of
                                                                                                            training per year per hourly
                             average hours training per year per employee by gender, and by                 employee. there is no gender
 g4-la9                      employee category                                                              variation. management
                                                                                                            receives 12 hours on
                                                                                                            average. workforce profile

                             programs or skills management and lifelong learning that support the
 g4-la10                     continued employability of employees and assist them in managing               workforce profile
                             career endings.

                                                                                                            we require one hour and
                                                                                                            twenty minutes of on-line
                                                                                                            compliance learning every
                             percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career               year for every employee,
 g4-la11                     development reviews by gender and employee category                            most of which touches on
                                                                                                            these issues. manager
                                                                                                            receive four hours of training
                                                                                                            in this category.

                             percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices
 g4-la14                     criteria                                                                       supply chain management




human rights

investment

                             total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures
 g4-hr2                      concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations,            workforce profile
                             including the percentage of employees trained




freedom of association and collective bargaining

                             operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom
 g4-hr4                      of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant     workforce profile
                             risk, and measures taken to support these rights




child labor

                             operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents
 g4-hr5                      of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition    workforce profile
                             of child labor.




34 // valvoline 2016 csr report

                                                                                               together we’re sustainably driven // gri



 profile                     description                                                                      reference



human rights (continued)

forced or compulsory labor

                             operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents
 g4-hr6                      of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the                workforce profile
                             elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor

                             total number of incidents of violations involving
 g4-hr8                      rights of indigenous people and actions taken                                   valvoline has no violations


                             percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights
 g4-hr10                     criteria                                                                        supply chain management




society

local communities

                                                                                                             valvoline requires all plants
                             percentage of operations with implemented local community                       and facilities with 10 or
 g4-so1                                                                                                      employees to annually assess
                             engagement, impact assessments and development programs
                                                                                                             and develop a community
                                                                                                             engagement plan.

 g4-so2                      operations with significant potential or actual
                             negative impacts on local communities                                           none




anti-corruption

 g4-so4                      communication and training on anti-corruption policies                          ethics and compliance




public policy

                                                                                                             valvoline made no political
                                                                                                             contributions in 2016.
                                                                                                             ashland inc., valvoline’s
                                                                                                             former owner, was the
                                                                                                             connected organization to
                                                                                                             the ashland political action
                                                                                                             committee for employees
                             total value of political contributions by country and                           (pace) and in 2016 pace
 g4-so6                      recipient/beneficiary                                                           made various donations
                                                                                                             as allowed by u.s. laws
                                                                                                             to political candidates and
                                                                                                             committees in the usa.
                                                                                                             these donations were not
                                                                                                             on behalf of nor for any one
                                                                                                             business unit or affiliate of
                                                                                                             ashland inc.

                             percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts
 g4-so9                      on society                                                                      supply chain management




                                                                                                            valvoline 2016 csr report // 35

about this report // together we’re sustainably driven



 profile                     description                                                                 reference



product responsibility
customer health and safety

                                                                                                        all of valvoline’s lubricants
                             type of product and service information required by the organization's     and chemical products
                             procedures for product and service information and labeling, and           are evaluated for health,
 g4-pr3                      percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such   safety and environmental
                             information requirements                                                   impact as part of our new
                                                                                                        product design, testing, and
                                                                                                        implementation processes.




36 // valvoline 2016 csr report

about this report                         our stakeholders help shape our
                                          businesses and contribute to our           engaging
we prepared this report in accordance
                                          overall success. we strive to be           stakeholders
                                          transparent with regard to our
with the global reporting initiative      activities and operations, and we
(gri) g4 reporting guidelines for core                                               stakeholder engagement at valvoline
                                          engage with our stakeholders on their      is an ongoing activity, occurring at all
reports. this is our first gri report     issues of concern in a manner
and it documents october 1, 2015,                                                    levels of our organization. valvoline
                                          that is positive and constructive.         seeks to establish and maintain
through september 30, 2016. moving        throughout the year we respond
forward, we plan to publish our                                                      productive relationships with all of
                                          to many direct requests from our           its key stakeholders, encompassing
reports online annually. valvoline has    stakeholders regarding the company’s
not obtained external assurance for                                                  employees, customers, suppliers,
                                          environment, health and safety             government officials, investors and
the development of this csr report.       and social responsibility policies,
however, valvoline has rigorous                                                      residents of communities in which
                                          programs and performance.                  ashland operates.
internal policies and practices that
provide assurance about the accuracy      our primary audience for this report
of the content of this report.                                                       valvoline gathers specific feedback
                                          includes, but is not limited to, the       from internal sources to better
                                          following stakeholders:                    understand how the company
report scope and boundaries
this report covers all of our operating                                              interacts with its key stakeholders.
                                          • current shareholders and                feedback is obtained from
units, 100 percent of our leased and        prospective investors;
owned facilities, and 100 percent                                                    departments such sales and
of our workforce in the regions in        • current and prospective employees       marketing within each business,
which we operate, unless otherwise          seeking to work for a sustainability-    corporate environmental, health
noted. it also covers joint ventures        minded company;                          and safety, procurement and logistics,
and subsidiaries that are part of our                                                investor relations, and corporate
                                          • communities where we operate that
business segments.                                                                   communications.
                                            want to understand how we manage
                                            and operate our business as a
                                                                                     this analysis is conducted on
material aspects                            responsible corporate citizen;
                                                                                     an ongoing basis throughout
                                          • suppliers with whom we partner,
and boundaries                              who are critical to our operations;
                                                                                     the company. the table below
                                                                                     summarizes some of the many
                                            and                                      stakeholder engagement practices.
how we chose what to include                                                         although it is not inclusive of all
                                          • governmental and non-
in our report                                                                        stakeholder engagement practices,
                                            governmental agencies that have
valvoline’s csr report contains                                                      it summarizes the core elements how
                                            an interest in our business and
information on the company’s                                                         valvoline engages stakeholder groups
                                            operations.
performance in the following                                                         on topics of interest.
areas: environmental stewardship,
social, health and safety, product        materiality                                this table summarizes who we
stewardship, community development        this is valvoline’s first csr report and   engage with and howg
and economic performance. this            we are striving to develop a formal
report includes information on our        process to determine our material          your feedback is welcome and
majority-owned operations where           aspects, in accordance with the gri        appreciated. please address any
valvoline operates.                       guidelines, our management systems,        questions or comments about our
                                          goals and objectives and their             csr report to csr@valvoline.com.
the company’s stakeholders                importance to our stakeholders.
include employees, customers,
suppliers, owners, contractors,           in addition to reporting on these
business partners, governmental and       material aspects, we continue to
non-governmental organizations,           provide relevant information on many
unions, industry colleagues and the       other topics to meet the needs of our
communities where we operate.             diverse stakeholders.
                                          material aspects tableg

