vectren 2016 report
    aligned with the gri g4 guidelines

about this report

this report is ‘in accordance’ with the global reporting initiative (gri) g4 guidelines –
core option. gri is a sustainability framework aimed at increasing transparency among
businesses and organizations worldwide.

this index includes the electric utility sector supplement (euss). indicators specific to
the euss are shown as eu(#) and can be found in the ‘standard disclosures’ section.
the reporting period for most information is 2016. data from additional years is
provided where appropriate.




about vectren                                     1
standard disclosures                              2
economic                                         15
environmental		                                  21
labor practices		                                26
human rights                                     35
society			                                       36
product responsibility                           40
gri g4 content index                             43

      about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
            human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                                    about vectren
   vectren corporation is an energy holding company headquartered in evansville, indiana. our energy
delivery subsidiaries provide gas and/or electricity to more than one million customers in adjoining service
  territories that cover nearly two-thirds of indiana and about 20 percent of ohio, primarily in the west-
central area. our nonutility subsidiaries and affiliates currently offer energy-related products and services
        to customers throughout the u.s. these include infrastructure services and energy services.



                                                          earnings mix

 natural gas                                                                                  infrastructure services
 vectren north                                                                                miller pipeline, llc
 vectren south                                                                                minnesota limited, llc
 vectren ohio


                                                 utility                  nonutility
                                                  ~80%                        ~20%




 electric                                                                                     energy services
 vectren south                                                                                energy systems group

                                                 breakdown of utility earnings

                                         earnings from                          earnings
                                          transmission                        from electric
                                         & distribution     ~80%       ~20%    generation




                                           vectren utility service areas




                                     indiana                                          ohio


                         lafayette
                                               muncie
                                                             dayton



                     terre haute

                                     bloomington




                 evansville




                                                                   1

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                              standard disclosures
  this section of indicators contains fundamental information about our organization, details about basic
           strategy and analysis and descriptions of our management structure and stakeholders.




st rat egy & an alys is
g4-1 statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization
at vectren, we are committed to being a leader in corporate citizenship and sustainability. as a local energy provider,
we understand the value of integrating sustainable practices in our daily operations and long-term strategies. whether
through community improvement initiatives, system reliability enhancements, employee wellness offerings or energy
efficiency programs, we continue to operate on the principle that sustainability and our stakeholders form the backbone
of our performance and identity as a company. although an evolving energy environment will demand a new approach to
areas of our business, our commitment to this principle will remain unchanged.
our vision for sustainable growth is reflected in our continued investment in natural gas infrastructure modernization
plans throughout our service territory to ensure safe and reliable energy delivery and our multi-year investment plan
for grid modernization which will further improve safety and reliability, reduce the frequency and duration of electric
outages and enhance customer experience. vectren strongly believes these investments in infrastructure modernization
contribute to the economic sustainability of our communities through income and job growth. since their inception in
2008, our infrastructure modernization programs have generated approximately $330 million in labor income and an
average of 1,097 jobs per year.
in our continuing commitment of environmental stewardship and strong economic performance, vectren completed a
comprehensive integrated resource planning process in 2016, which included multiple opportunities for stakeholder
input, and culminated in a transformative preferred future generation portfolio which calls for the retirement of three
aging coal-fired units, replacement with a new highly-efficient natural gas-fired generation and a significant investment
in utility solar projects. this diversified generation portfolio is expected to reduce vectren’s carbon emissions 60 percent
from 2005 levels.
we appreciate your interest in vectren and invite you to review our global reporting initiative (gri) information which is
provided in accordance with the gri g4 core option guidelines.

carl l. chapman 			                        john d. engelbrecht                         angila retherford
chairman, president & ceo                  chair, corporate responsibility             vice president, environmental affairs
                                           and sustainability committee of             & corporate sustainability
                                           the board of directors


organizat io n al p ro f il e
g4-3 name of the organization
vectren corporation

g4-4 primary products, services and divisions
vectren corporation is an energy holding company. vectren's wholly owned subsidiary, vectren utility holdings, inc.,
serves as the intermediate holding company for three operating utilities: vectren energy delivery of vectren indiana–
north (vectren indiana–north), vectren energy delivery of vectren indiana–south (vectren indiana–south) and vectren
energy delivery of ohio (vectren ohio).
vectren indiana–north provides energy delivery services to 587,000 natural gas customers located in central and
southern indiana. vectren south provides energy delivery services to 144,000 electric customers and 111,000 gas
customers located in southwestern indiana. vectren indiana–south also owns and operates electric generation to serve
its electric customers and optimizes those assets in the wholesale power market. vectren ohio provides energy delivery
services to approximately 316,000 natural gas customers located in west central ohio.




                                                             2

             about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                   human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




vectren's nonutility group is involved in infrastructure services and energy services. infrastructure services provides
underground construction, repair and replacement services (miller pipeline and minnesota limited). energy services
provides energy performance contracting services and renewable energy project development (energy systems group).

g4-5 headquarters
vectren corporation is based in evansville, indiana. additional information can be found on the about vectren page
(http://www.vectren.com/corporate/about) on vectren.com.

g4-6 countries of operation
vectren solely operates in the united states of america.

g4-7 ownership and legal form
vectren corporation is an investor-owned corporation trading on the new york stock exchange under the symbol, vvc.

g4-8         markets served
                                                            vectren energy delivery subsidiaries provide natural gas and/
                                                            or electricity to more than 1 million customers in the
                                                            adjoining service territories which cover nearly two-thirds of
                    indiana                     ohio
                                                            indiana and about 20 percent of ohio, primarily in the
                                                            west-central area. while the energy delivery subsidiaries
        lafayette
                              muncie
                                                            serve residential, commercial and industrial customers within
                                       dayton               a regulated footprint of indiana and ohio, vectren’s
                                                            nonutility subsidiaries and affiliates offer energy-related
    terre haute                                             products and services to customers throughout the united
                    bloomington
                                                            states. the infrastructure services division serves the
                                                            pipeline industry by providing underground pipeline
                                                            construction and repair to utility infrastructure. the targeted
evansville                                                  business sectors include natural gas, oil, gasoline/petroleum,
                                                            water and sewer. vectren’s energy services division serves
                                                            schools, hospitals, governmental facilities and other private
                                                            institutions across america. for a detailed description of the
                                                            company, please see our 2016 form 10-k (http://www.
                                                            vectrenlivesmart.com/sustainability/reporting/10k2016.pdf,
                                                            page 9).



g4-9 scale of the reporting organization
workforce
as of december 31, 2016, vectren and its consolidated subsidiaries had approximately 5,800 employees. of those
employees, 700 are subject to collective bargaining arrangements negotiated by vectren’s utility division and 3,100 are
subject to collective bargaining arrangements negotiated by the infrastructure services division. please see response to
standard disclosures indicator g4-10 for a detailed breakdown of vectren utility and corporate employees by region.
shareholders
as of december 31, 2016, vectren had 82.9 million shares outstanding and approximately 7,900 registered shareholders.
vectren had a market capitalization of 4.3 billion and our largest shareholder was the vanguard group who held
approximately 7.1 million shares, or 8.6 percent.
financial information
all revenues are sourced from operations within the u.s. in 2016, vectren reported net revenue of $2,448.3 million. for
additional financial data, please see the response to economic indicator g4-ec1 and our 2016 form 10-k (http://www.
vectrenlivesmart.com/sustainability/reporting/10k2016.pdf, page 28).
products & services
vectren provides energy delivery services to natural gas and electric to customers in indiana and ohio. for a detailed
breakdown of our customers by fuel source and region, please refer to indicator g4-eu3.




                                                            3

        about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
              human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-10 total utility and corporate workforce
                                                  total workforce by gender and territory (2016)

                                                                 males                  females                     total

  vectren indiana–north                                                         372                  73                        445

  vectren indiana–south                                                         774                 468                       1,242

  vectren ohio                                                                  146                  31                        177

  total employee headcount                                                    1,292                 572                       1,864
  excludes subsidiaries. vectren does not track this information for contractors.



g4-11 percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements
                                 total workforce by employment type/contract and territory (2014-2016)

                                                                                         2014             2015              2016

  total bargaining headcount                                                                 672             706               704

  – vectren indiana–north bargaining headcount                                               262             267               274

  – vectren indiana–south bargaining headcount                                               302             324               311

  – vectren ohio bargaining headcount                                                        108             115               119

  total non-bargaining headcount                                                            1,075           1,117             1,160

  total employee headcount                                                                  1,747           1,823             1,864

  – % bargaining                                                                           38.5%           38.7%             37.8%
  excludes subsidiaries. vectren does not track this information for contractors.



g4-12 supply chain
role of supply chain
supply chain partners with other business units to develop strategic relationships that provide the best value to the
company. sourcing decisions are based on the total cost of ownership which includes quantitative and qualitative
considerations. our collaborative, comprehensive approach ensure supplier agreements look beyond the price paid and
are reflections of vectren’s core values.
how vectren buys smart
supply chain practices are governed by a strategic plan that brings transparency and sound management principles
into the procurement process. our procurement policies provide clear direction to our colleagues that make purchasing
decisions on when and how to involve supply chain to fulfill requirements for goods and services. information systems
are leveraged to ensure defined processes are followed and desired results are achieved.
vectren provides new suppliers with the corporate code of conduct, demonstrating external business partners are
expected to conduct business with the same level of integrity as our employees.
risk mitigation
during 2016, vectren spent more than $150 million to modernize our natural gas infrastructure. to ensure this work
is carried out safely, supply chain utilizes oracle’s supplier life cycle management (slm) application to monitor each
contractor’s compliance with vectren’s qualification criteria. slm alerts supply chain and other groups of pending
expiries, allowing for proactive supplier management. a cross-functional committee meets monthly to review the status
of contractor relationships and remove non-compliant contractors from the supply base.
formal contracts are used extensively with at-risk contractors due to the complexity of the agreements. supply chain
leverages an electronic contract management system which serves as the central repository for agreements pertaining to




                                                                                    4

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




materials and services. supply chain receives automatic notifications of contract expiration dates, ensuring agreements
remain current. in addition, the contract management application ensures agreements follow vectren’s contract review
process.
supplier diversity and development
vectren corporation recognizes that a diverse and inclusive corporate culture is an essential asset for maintaining a
competitive advantage in the marketplace. our company's commitment to integrating diversity and inclusion into all
aspects of our operations strengthens our business capacity, maximizes shareholder value, connects us to our community
and positions us as leaders in the utilities industry.
our supplier diversity and development commitment includes:
• engaging qualified diverse businesses that can provide competitively priced high-quality products and services.
• promoting support of supplier diversity and development initiatives with our major suppliers through their supply
  chain of materials and services.
• targeting opportunities to assist in developing competitive diverse businesses through instruction, mentoring and
  other outreach activities.
• executing a continuous improvement plan across our supply chain procurement and communications processes.
by providing opportunities for minority, women, veteran and service-disabled veteran owned businesses, current year
2016 spend with diverse suppliers totaled more than $58.8 million, thus sustaining our 10 percent of total sourceable
spend. our inclusion of diverse suppliers in our competitive sourcing events yielded 52 percent participation, resulting in
42 percent of diverse participants awarded opportunities.
vectren’s supplier diversity colleagues are actively involved on advocacy organizations’ boards and committees that
support the development and inclusion of diverse suppliers. in 2016, the indiana minority business magazine recognized
one of our colleagues as a champion of diversity, a recognition given to individuals and institutions that demonstrate
tremendous efforts in the areas of diversity and inclusion.
vectren corporation was recognized by the great lakes women’s business council as indiana’s 2016 outstanding
corporate supporter, for our dedication and support of women owned businesses throughout the state.
supply chain’s impact
supply chain’s efforts resulted in $5 million in direct savings and cost avoidance in 2016. procurement strategies
resulted in over $300 million spent with indiana and ohio suppliers.

g4-13 significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership or supply chain
none

g4-14 precautionary approach
please see our 2016 form 10-k (http://www.vectrenlivesmart.com/sustainability/reporting/10k2016.pdf, item 1a,
pages 15-24) for an assessment on company risk.

g4-15 external initiatives and endorsements
vectren supports the programs of the united way. please see response to standard disclosures indicator g4-16 for
additional information.

g4-16 memberships in associations
american association of blacks in energy (aabe), american gas association (aga), association of energy services
professionals (aesp), better business bureau of the miami valley, boston college center on corporate citizenship,
builders association of greater indianapolis, central indiana clean cities alliance, central indiana corporate partnership,
common ground alliance, dayton building owners and managers association (boma), downtown, dayton partnership,
dayton society of nat. history, edison electric institute (eei), evansville sports corp, greater dayton air conditioning
& heating association (acca), greater indianapolis progress committee, indiana 811, indiana association of cities &
towns, indiana chamber of commerce (and a variety of local state chambers of commerce), indiana coal council, inc.,
indiana economic development association, indiana association of community economic development, indiana fiscal




                                                             5

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




policy institute, indiana industry liaison group (ilg), indiana legal foundation, indiana manufacturing association (ima),
indiana philanthropy alliance, indiana recycling coalition, indiana sports corporation, indiana state university, indiana
technology partnership, institute for supply management, kentucky 811, main street marion, mid-states minority
supplier development council, midwest energy association, midwest energy efficiency alliance (meea), multicultural
professional network, the nature conservancy, national association of manufacturing (nam), national coal alliance,
national fuel funds network, ohio 811, ohio chamber of commerce (and a variety of local state chambers of
commerce), ohio gas association (oga), ohio minority suppliers development council, one southern indiana, one
zone commerce connected, philanthropy ohio, society for diversity, southern indiana builders association (siba),
tri-state better business bureau, urban land institute, utility solid waste activities group (uswag), united states
chamber of commerce)


id en t ified m at erial as p ec ts & b o u nda r i e s
g4-17 operational structure
vectren corporation is an energy holding company headquartered in evansville, indiana. vectren’s wholly owned
subsidiary, vectren utility holdings, inc. (utility holdings or vuhi), serves as the intermediate holding company for three
public utilities: vectren energy delivery of indiana–north (vectren indiana–north), vectren energy delivery of indiana–
south (vectren indiana–south) and vectren energy delivery of ohio (vectren ohio). vectren’s consolidated utility
operations are collectively referred to as the utility group.
vectren is also involved in nonutility activities in two primary business areas: infrastructure services and energy
services. infrastructure services are provided through the company’s wholly owned subsidiaries miller pipeline, llc,
and minnesota limited, llc. energy services are performed through vectren’s wholly owned subsidiary energy systems
group, llc. vectren’s nonutility operations are collectively referred to as the nonutility group.
the gri responses in this report focus solely on the utility group comprised of vectren’s energy delivery subsidiaries
(vectren indiana–north, vectren indiana–south and vectren ohio), with the exception of the economic performance
indicators which include data on both the utility group and the nonutility group.

g4-18 process for defining report content
vectren conducted a materiality survey in accordance with gri guidelines to determine which aspects were most
important to our stakeholder groups. each stakeholder group was asked to rank the aspects in order of importance (see
response to standard disclosures indicator g4-24 for identified stakeholder groups).
results from this exercise identified employee safety, public safety, emissions and compliance as the highest-ranked
materiality aspects (see standard disclosures indicator g4-19 for a complete list of identified material topics).

g4-19 material aspects identified in the process of defining report content

 material aspects     scope                                                            aspect boundary

 economic             meeting and exceeding performance targets while driving          employees, communities, suppliers,
 performance          efficiency and managing costs                                    investors, government

 indirect economic    continuing to economically grow indiana and ohio through         communities, government, non-
 impacts              infrastructure and capital investments                           governmental agencies (ngos)

                      providing energy efficient solutions for our customers and
 energy                                                                                investors, government, customers
                      maximizing energy efficiency in our own operations

                                                                                       customers, investors, government,
 emissions            monitoring and reducing harmful emissions
                                                                                       ngos




                                                              6

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




 material aspects      scope                                                              aspect boundary

 effluents and         monitoring our effluents and waste while keeping in compliance
                                                                                          customers, communities, ngos
 waste                 with all regulations

                                                                                          customers, employees,
 environmental
                       complying with all local, state and federal environmental laws     communities, suppliers, investors,
 compliance
                                                                                          government, ngos

 environmental         engaging in environmentally friendly practices to create a more
                                                                                          communities, government
 (overall)             sustainable business and community

 employment            maintaining and retaining a skilled and engaged workforce          employees

 occupational
                       keeping employees healthy and safe on and off the clock            employees, suppliers, government
 health and safety

 training and
                       maintaining a safe, educated and well trained workforce            employees, investors
 education

 diversity and equal   ensuring equal opportunity employment and maintaining a
                                                                                          employees, government
 opportunity           diverse workforce

                       ensuring no stakeholder will be treated differently regarding
 non-discrimination                                                                       customers, employees
                       race, gender, ethnicity, etc.

 local communities     benefitting the communities in which we operate                    communities, investors

 anti-corruption       demonstrating ethical business behavior                            customers, government

                       engaging with local, regional and federal leaders to maintain
 public policy                                                                            government, ngos
                       compliance

 customer health       ensuring the safety, security and privacy of all residential and   customers, employees, investors,
 and safety            commercial customers                                               communities, government, ngos

 product service       correctly labeling products and services for health and safety
                                                                                          customers
 and labeling          concerns


g4-20 aspect boundary within the organization
the material aspects identified in standard disclosures indicator g4-19 are applicable to the utility group operating
units (vectren indiana–north, vectren indiana–south and vectren ohio) identified within the scope of this report. please
see standard disclosures indicator g4-19 for material aspects inside the boundary of the organization.

g4-21 aspect boundary outside of the organization
material aspects identified in standard disclosures indicator g4-19 affect many of our external stakeholders outside
the actual utility group operating units (vectren indiana–north, vectren indiana–south and vectren ohio). our external
stakeholders, including customers and local communities, identified the following aspects as highest priority: customer
health and safety, product services and labeling, environmental issues and local communities. please see standard
disclosures indicator g4-19 for more information on material aspects and the external stakeholders that each material
aspect affects outside of the organization.




                                                                 7

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-22 restatements of information
none

g4-23 significant changes in scope and boundaries
none


stakehol d er en gag em en t
g4-24 stakeholder groups
the following table includes the identified stakeholder groups and key topics of concern identified in our materiality
survey.

 stakeholder           key topics of concern

                       community impact; environmental compliance; environmental stewardship; community engagement;
 communities
                       customer health and safety; effluents and waste

                       emissions; effluents and waste; environmental compliance; non-discrimination; anti-corruption;
 customers
                       customer health and safety; customer satisfaction; customer privacy

                       economic performance; environmental compliance; employee hiring, turnover, benefits and retention;
 employees             employee health and safety; training and education; diversity and equal opportunity; non-
                       discrimination; customer health and safety; customer satisfaction

                       economic performance; indirect economic impacts; energy consumption and conservation; emissions;
 government            compliance; occupational health and safety; diversity and equal opportunity; public policy; customer
                       health and safety; customer privacy

                       economic performance; energy consumption and conservation; emissions; environmental compliance;
 investors
                       community engagement; customer satisfaction

 non-governmental      indirect economic impacts; energy consumption and conservation; compliance; customer satisfaction;
 agencies              customer privacy

 suppliers             economic performance; environmental compliance; employee health and safety


g4-25 identification of stakeholders
vectren defines a stakeholder as any person or group impacted by or impacting company operations. please see
response to standard disclosures indication g4-24 for a list of identified stakeholder groups.

g4-26 approaches to engaging stakeholders

 stakeholder          methods of engagement

                      vectren foundation; online grant applications; community events and sponsorships; low income
 communities          energy assistance; employee volunteerism; community partnerships to revitalize lower income
                      neighborhoods; city and county council meeting presentations

                      call center; vectren website; customer service online webchat; social media; television, radio, email
                      and marketing campaigns; mobile application to report outages and make payments; speaker’s bureau
 customers            (presentations to local clubs and agencies on energy efficiency and understanding the bill); bill inserts;
                      email newsletters; customer surveys and focus groups; energy efficiency/demand side management
                      initiatives; trade shows; large business customer forums; business and commercial account managers




                                                               8

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




 stakeholder          methods of engagement

                      call center; vectren website; customer service online webchat; social media; television, radio, email
                      and marketing campaigns; mobile application to report outages and make payments; speaker’s bureau
 employees            (presentations to local clubs and agencies on energy efficiency and understanding the bill); bill inserts;
                      email newsletters; customer surveys and focus groups; energy efficiency/demand side management
                      initiatives; trade shows; large business customer forums; business and commercial account managers

                      comments on proposed rules; regulatory filings and hearings; state and federal government affairs
 government
                      staff; corporate lobbying efforts; trade organization participation

                      quarterly earnings calls, webcasts, presentations and press releases; analyst and investor meetings;
 investors            industry conferences; shareholders services online and by phone; annual shareholders’ meeting;
                      annual report to shareholders; availability of investor relations staff

 non-governmental
                      vectren website; sustainability reporting; annual reporting; stakeholder dialogues
 agencies

                      request for proposals; periodic meetings with key suppliers to review key performance indicators
                      (kpis); supplier diversity events; industry trade show participation; fair dealing; timely payments;
 suppliers
                      competitive bidding processes; supplier code of conduct; ethics call-in line; supplier diversity &
                      development program


g4-27 response to stakeholder concerns
please see response to standard disclosures indicator g4-19 for stakeholder material topics and concerns. these topics
are addressed through indicators within this report and through publicly available reports such as the 2016 annual
report and form 10-k.


report p ro f il e
g4-28 reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided
january 1, 2016–december 31, 2016 (data from additional years provided where appropriate)

g4-29 date of most recent previous report
released 2015 vectren annual sustainability report in accordance with gri g4 in august 2016.

g4-30 reporting cycle
annual

g4-31 contact point for questions
sustainability@vectren.com

g4-32 gri content index
this report was developed using the gri g4 guidelines reporting framework with the electric utilities sector
supplement (euss). this report is “in accordance” with the gri g4 guidelines – core option. the gri g4 content index
is contained within this listing.

g4-33 external assurance
this report has not been externally assured. however, all aspects referencing the 2016 form 10-k have been
externally assured by deloitte.




                                                               9

        about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
              human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




gover n an c e
g4-34 governance structure
mr. carl chapman holds the combined position of board chair, president and chief executive officer (ceo). the board
has determined that with the exception of mr. chapman, all members of the board are independent and satisfy vectren's
director independence standards. the board’s composition continues to evolve due to changes in risk and corporate
strategy. the election of two new directors and the succession of a new lead director demonstrate the board’s ability to
embrace new perspectives while maintaining a balanced mix of skills and experiences.
the board is ultimately responsible for risk oversight across the organization. that responsibility is shared by the
committees of the board in addressing financial, compensation, reputational and governance risks, with specific
responsibility for reviewing management’s risk oversight function delegated to the audit and risk management (audit)
committee, as provided for in its charter.
the nominating and corporate governance (governance) committee is a standing committee of the board primarily
responsible for corporate governance matters affecting vectren and our subsidiaries. the compensation and benefits
(compensation) committee is a standing committee of the board responsible for administering vectren’s management
incentive and stock-based compensation plans as well as overseeing the administration of vectren’s retirement and
welfare plans. additionally, this committee is responsible for establishing the base salary, incentive compensation and
any other compensation for vectren’s president and ceo, as well as each of the other executive officers.
the finance committee is a standing committee of the board responsible for ensuring the discharge of the board’s
duties relating to the financial activities of our utility and nonutility businesses. the corporate responsibility and
sustainability (crs) committee is a standing committee of the board responsible for oversight of policies and strategies
fostering the sustainability of vectren to meet the evolving needs of our stakeholders.

g4-38 composition, mandate & responsibilities of board of directors
as of december 31, 2016, the eleven member board consists of two women and one minority. the non-employee board
members are elected to various committees. the standing board level committees are: the governance committee, the
audit committee, the compensation committee, the finance committee and the crs committee. the name, tenure,
age, gender and board committee membership of the current board members are summarized in the following table:

                                            board composition & committee memberships (2016)

  director                                term start      age (gender)          committee(s)

  carl l. chapman                          2009              61 (m)

  james h. degraffenreidt, jr.             2010              63 (m)             governance; audit

  john d. engelbrecht                      2000              65 (m)             chair of crs; finance

  anton h. george                          2000              57 (m)             compensation; crs

  martin c. jischke    1
                                           2007              75 (m)             compensation; crs

  robert g. jones                          2011              60 (m)             chair of finance; crs

  patrick k. mullen                        2014              52 (m)             compensation; governance

  r. daniel sadlier                        2003              69 (m)             audit; chair of compensation; finance

  michael l. smith                         2006              68 (m)             chair of audit; governance

  teresa tanner                            2015              48 (f)             finance; compensation

  jean l. wojtowicz                        2000              59 (f)             lead director; chair of governance; audit
  1 mr. jischke did not stand for reelection at the annual meeting of the shareholders on may 16, 2017.




                                                                             10

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




the name, primary job function and other commitments of the current board members are summarized in the following
table:
                                                  board commitments (2016)

  director              primary job function & other commitments

                        chairman, president & ceo of vectren corporation
  carl l. chapman       other commitments: director and board chair of vuhi, vectren infrastructure services corporation
                        (visco) and vectren energy services corporation (vesco); director of igc, sigeco and vectren ohio

                        retired chairman & ceo of wgl holdings, inc.
  james h.
                        other commitments: director of massachusetts mutual life insurance company and harbor
  degraffenreidt, jr.
                        bankshares corporation

  john d.               chairman & president of south central communications corporation
  engelbrecht           other commitments: director of deaconess health systems, inc.

                        principal of vision investments, llc
  anton h. george       other commitments: director of hulman & company, clabber girl corporation, indianapolis motor
                        speedway corporation, indy racing league, llc, and first financial corporation

                        president emeritus of purdue university
  martin c. jischke     other commitments: director of duke realty corporation; board chair of wabash national
                        corporation

                        president & ceo of old national bancorp
  robert g. jones
                        other commitments: director of old national bancorp

                        executive vice president of chicago bridge & iron
  patrick k. mullen
                        other commitments: president of cb&i's engineering and construction operating group

                        retired president & ceo of fifth third bank (western ohio)
  r. daniel sadlier     other commitments: director of fifth third bank (greater cincinnati); trustee of sinclair community
                        college

                        retired executive vice president & cfo of anthem, inc.
                        other commitments: director and compensation committee chair of envision healthcare holding,
  michael l. smith
                        inc.; director of hulman & company, ldi ltd., llc, carestream health services, inc., usi, inc., agilon,
                        inc., and norvax, inc.

  teresa tanner         executive vice president & chief administrative officer of fifth third bank

                        president & founder of cambridge capital management corporation
  jean l.
                        other commitments: director of first merchants corporation, first internet bancorp and american
  wojtowicz
                        united mutual insurance holding company


g4-39 board chair
mr. carl chapman is the board chair as well as the president and ceo. the combination of the board chair and ceo
positions positively serves vectren’s interests. based upon mr. chapman’s performance since he assumed leadership of
the company, the board continues to believe combining the responsibilities of the board chair and ceo is in the best
interest of vectren and our stakeholders. mr. chapman’s insights and perspective resulting from his first-hand knowledge
of vectren’s operations are beneficial to the board during its deliberations on company affairs.
to ensure the preservation of good governance, the board has and will continue to maintain the position of an
independent lead director who is elected by independent board members and is charged with the responsibility
to coordinate the activities of the non-employee, independent directors. more information on the lead director’s
responsibilities can be found in the corporate governance guidelines on the corporate governance page (http://www.
vectren.com/corporate/governance) on vectren.com.




                                                               11

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-41 board processes for resolving and avoiding conflicts of interest and disclosure practices
vectren monitors transactions with related persons (directors and executive officers or their immediate family members,
or shareholders owning 5 percent or greater of our outstanding stock). the approach to monitoring related party
transactions with board members is described in our corporate code of conduct, code of ethics for the board and
annual disclosure practices by board members. vectren's corporate code of conduct directs board members to avoid
relationships with, and financial interests in, business partners and those who are seeking to become business partners.
board members complete an annual acknowledgement stating that they agree to abide by the code of conduct. in
addition, board members complete annual questionnaires requesting information about, among other matters, related
person transactions. vectren policy requires board members to promptly disclose to the chair of the governance
committee any situation that involves, or may potentially involve a conflict of interest. the governance committee
reviews all relationships that exist between vectren and the non-management board members, other than relationships
relating to service on the board. material relationships are disclosed annually to stakeholders in the report of the
nominating and corporate governance committee posted on the corporate governance page (http://www.vectren.com/
corporate/governance) on vectren.com.


et hics & in t eg rit y
g4-56 organizational values and code of conduct
corporate audit is responsible for promoting the corporate code of conduct (the code) and training employees
regarding the code and ethical behavior in general. employees, including all corporate officers, complete an annual
certification stating they have read the code and agree to abide by it. this annual awareness training familiarizes
employees with 1) the code, 2) the responsibility of vectren representatives to demonstrate ethical behavior, and 3)
the communication lines available to report violations or seek advice. various annual awareness processes exist for
different employee groups, but all of them result in communication, acknowledgement and acceptance of the code. new
employees receive training and acknowledge acceptance of the code as part of the on-boarding process. the code is
posted on the corporate governance page (http://www.vectren.com/corporate/governance) on vectren.com. no waivers
from the code’s provisions were granted in 2016.
on a biannual basis, employees participate in an employee engagement survey that encompasses the entire employee
experience. a survey was conducted in 2016. certain questions gauge the employee’s ethical perception of whether
vectren is a good place to work, whether senior management “walks the walk” and whether employees are treated with
respect and know how to address ethical issues. employee responses are compared to a benchmark of high-performing
companies. for the ethics-related questions, engagement scores compared favorably to these benchmarks and increased
compared to the last survey conducted in 2014. the next survey plans to be conducted in 2019.

g4-57 mechanisms for ethical consultation
the code lists the communication lines available for seeking advice or reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful
behavior. employees are informed of the various methods for seeking advice or reporting violations in the annual code
awareness training. in addition, posters publicizing where to find the code, how to report issues and how to seek advice
are located in break rooms and on intranet sites where company policy and procedures are maintained.

g4-58 reporting ethical concerns and violations
employees can report concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior without fear of retaliation. certain internal and
external mechanisms listed in the code allow stakeholders to report concerns or request advice anonymously, including
the third-party ethics hotline and direct correspondence with the chair of the audit committee. the third-party ethics
hotline is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
vectren’s fraud and misconduct reporting framework ensures code violations are investigated and questions are
addressed in a timely, consistent manner, regardless of how issues are reported. the ultimate outcome of this framework
is vectren’s ability to monitor overall adherence to its established standards and to elevate material issues to senior
leadership and the board. investigations of tier 1 issues are led by corporate audit. tier 1 issues are characterized by the
following: officer or board member involvement, manipulation of financial results, theft that exceeds $30,000, or outside
legal costs that exceed $250,000, or a pattern of lower tier violations either in terms of offender or offense. corporate
audit also monitors the completion of investigations on fraud and allegations made anonymously to senior management
or the board through the hotline.




                                                            12

         about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
               human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




elect ric ut il it y s ec to r s up p l eme nt ( e u s s )
g4-eu1     installed capacity
                                                           capacity (2016)

                                                                                                                          mw

  installed capacity                                                                                                           1,248

  – installed capacity: coal                                                                                                   1,000

  – installed capacity: natural gas                                                                                             245

  – installed capacity: landfill gas                                                                                                3

  purchased capacity                                                                                                            112

  – purchased capacity: coal                                                                                                        32

  – purchased capacity: wind                                                                                                        80


g4-eu2     net energy output
                                                      net energy output (2016)

                                                                                                                      total (mwh)

  coal                                                                                                                    4,825,435

  natural gas                                                                                                               42,797

  landfill gas                                                                                                              13,492

  purchased coal                                                                                                           157,356

  purchased wind                                                                                                           195,947

  total energy output                                                                                                     5,235,027


g4-eu3     number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts
                                               customer accounts by territory (2016)

                                                  residential     commercial        industrial            other             total

  vectren indiana–north                             534,315            51,277              950                    -        586,542

  vectren indiana–south (natural gas)               100,672            10,288              112                    -        111,072

  vectren indiana–south (electric)                  125,662            18,551              113                39           144,365

  vectren ohio                                      292,063            23,625              667                    -        316,355


g4-eu4 length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime
we calculate circuit lengths and transmission circuits in circuit-miles (not pole or line miles). vectren’s system is in one
regulatory regime (indiana).
                                transmission & distribution primary circuit-miles (all voltages) (2016)

                                                                                                                  miles

  transmission (all voltages)                                                                                               1,002.1

  distribution (all voltages)                                                                                               4,293.9

  total t&d                                                                                                                 5,296.0

  – overhead transmission & distribution                                                                                    4,048.4

  – underground transmission & distribution                                                                                 1,247.6




                                                                  13

      about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
            human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                     transmission & distribution primary circuit-miles by voltage category (2016)

  voltage                                                                                           miles

  4.16kv                                                                                                     101.8

  12.47kv                                                                                                   4,192.1

  69kv                                                                                                       562.9

  138kv                                                                                                      375.4

  345kv                                                                                                       63.8


g4-eu5 allocation of co2 emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework
not applicable in the united states




                                                         14

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                                      economic
this section of indicators contains information about our economic performance and position and how we
                          directly and indirectly impact markets and communities.




economic p erfo rman c e
g4-dma economic performance
vectren’s utility business remains the core of the company and is the key driver of achieving consistent earnings growth
by focusing on the execution of infrastructure programs and cost control strategies. the company considers these
next several years as a time of transformation for the utility. this transformation involves three components. the first
component is the continuation of vectren’s successful gas infrastructure investment programs to further improve the
company’s ability to deliver safe and reliable service to its gas customers in indiana and ohio. the company earns
current returns on a large percentage of the new infrastructure investments as provided in indiana and ohio legislation/
regulation. the second component is a new infrastructure investment program to modernize and upgrade vectren’s
electric transmission and distribution grid that will improve the reliability of the electric system, reduce the frequency
and duration of service outages and enhance the overall customer experience. the company filed its 7-year electric
infrastructure improvement plan in spring 2017. the third component is the expected diversification of vectren’s
generation fleet that would improve our overall fuel-source flexibility, further reduce emissions and enhance the utility’s
ability to adapt to new technologies and changing customer needs. the execution of this third component is tied to the
indiana commission’s resolution of the company’s integrated resource plan (irp). the irp and electric infrastructure
plans, combined with our ongoing gas investments, will transform and prepare the utility business for a smart energy
future.
in addition to these strategic long-term investments, the utility is aggressively managing costs through performance
management and strategic sourcing activities. together, these initiatives allow the utility companies to earn at or near
vectren’s allowed rate of return (approximately 11 percent in 2016), which is key to achieving the company’s financial
targets.
in the nonutility business, organic growth is expected to be the principal driver of earnings growth with the completion
of commodity business divestitures and key acquisitions between 2011 and 2015. infrastructure services is well
positioned in this strong demand environment. infrastructure services’ distribution business is focused on utility pipeline
replacement and modernization work, while maintenance/integrity work remains the focus in the transmission business.
infrastructure services’ organic growth strategy is focused on adding high quality, highly skilled field personnel to serve
existing and new customers exceptionally well, in addition to identifying strategic investments in equipment.
energy services’ platform for energy performance contracting and sustainable infrastructure growth is now in place with
the acquisition of chevron’s federal business unit in 2014. this acquisition positions energy services to compete in all
market segments (federal, public sector and sustainable infrastructure) and meet the long-term demands as the national
focus on energy conservation and security, renewable energy and sustainability continues to grow given the expected
rise in power prices across the country and customer focus on efficiency.
the combination of business mix and focused strategies will enable vectren to continue achieving its established
financial targets and provide excellent shareholder returns.
financial targets
over the past several years, vectren has developed a utility growth strategy focused on gas infrastructure replacement
throughout its service territories, while narrowing its nonutility business mix by exiting commodity-based businesses and
making key acquisitions within the infrastructure and energy services business sectors. the goal of these initiatives is to
achieve consistent and higher earnings growth, while simplifying the business structure and reducing risk. the company
also recently communicated its plan for a smart energy future reflecting increased capital investment needs at our
electric utility coupled with our continuing gas infrastructure investments and supplemented by a strong nonutility group
outlook. as a result of this focus, vectren communicated increased financial targets in february 2017.




                                                            15

         about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
               human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




• provide total annual shareholder return of 9-11 percent
• deliver consolidated earnings and dividend growth of 6-8 percent
• deliver utility earnings growth of 5-7 percent
• deliver long-term nonutility eps growth of approximately $0.06-0.10/year.
• target a consolidated payout ratio of 60-65 percent with a utility payout ratio of 70 percent

g4-ec1       direct economic value generated and distributed
                                selected financial & corporate data for vectren corporation (2015-2016)

  (in millions except per share data)                                                                     2015           2016

  revenues    1
                                                                                                            $2,434.7       $2,448.3

  operating expenses1                                                                                       $2,072.9       $2,066.8

  net income      1
                                                                                                             $197.3         $211.6

  total assets    2
                                                                                                            $5,409.9       $5,800.7

  total liabilities2                                                                                        $3,726.1       $4,032.6

  total equity    2
                                                                                                            $1,683.8       $1,768.1

  basic eps   1
                                                                                                                 $2.39          $2.55

  cash flow from operations3                                                                                 $505.2         $524.1

  payments to capital providers and the government3                                                          $371.0         $272.7

  – dividends paid on common stock           3
                                                                                                             $127.3         $134.2

  – interest expense1                                                                                            $84.2          $86.6

  – tax expense       1
                                                                                                             $159.2             $51.9

  capital expenditures, excluding afudc equity             3
                                                                                                             $476.9         $542.0

  community investments4                                                                                          $5.5           $5.2
  1   from form 10-k income statement
  2   from form 10-k balance sheet
  3   from form 10-k cash flow statement
  4   includes community sustainability o&m, low income assistance, as well as foundation contributions


our 2016 form 10-k can be found online at http://www.vectrenlivesmart.com/sustainability/reporting/10k2016.pdf.
our 2015 form 10-k can be found online at http://www.vectrenlivesmart.com/sustainability/reporting/10k2015.pdf.


ind ir ect eco n o mic impac ts
g4-dma indirect economic impacts
vectren is committed to enhancing the communities in which we operate. our community investments, volunteer work
and philanthropic giving creates jobs, promotes gross domestic product (gdp) growth and elevates overall social well-
being for the people and businesses within our service territory. this is accomplished through:
• proactive community engagement,
• designing and constructing infrastructure to serve new sites,
• reliable electrical and natural gas delivery, and
• continuous engagement of all internal and external stakeholders.
economic development initiatives within vectren’s indiana service territory
in 2016, vectren saw continued economic growth throughout its indiana service territories. this was facilitated by
vectren’s continued partnerships with the indiana economic development corporation and regional and local economic
development organizations. specific to vectren indiana–north, these partnerships resulted in the announced private
investment of $778.5 million along with the intent to create an additional 4,978 full-time jobs over the next several




                                                                            16

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




years. a majority of the announced new jobs (3,896 or 79 percent) were the direct result of existing business expansions
while the balance (1,089 or 21 percent) came from new business attraction. the 5 largest projects in terms of capital
investment announced in 2016 include elsa corporation ($11 million expansion), ryobi die casting ($97.5 million
expansion), ken’s foods ($90.5 million attraction project), honda manufacturing of indiana ($52.4 million expansion) and
nippon steel & sumikin cold heading wire ($50 million attraction project).
in vectren indiana–south, announced capital investment was $77 million, with the projected creation of 601 jobs. as
is typically the case, most new investment came from expansions (72.4m or 94 percent), with the rest coming from
new location projects (4.6m or 6 percent). several companies announced the creation of over 100 new jobs including
e luxury supply (104), toyota boshoku (160), shield global partners (135) and electronics research incorporated
(102). in 2016, vectren indiana–south was a microcosm of indiana’s diversifying economy, with a wide variety of
industries announcing growth projects. examples of these sectors include automotive, e-commerce, plastics, back office,
agribusiness and electronics. the strong trend is expected to continue in 2017, with many attractive projects currently in
the pipeline.
economic development initiatives within vectren’s ohio service territory
in 2016, the vectren energy delivery of ohio economic development team worked with regional and local economic
development partners resulting in $290.5 million in new capital investment. the new investment was centered in
montgomery county although several counties experienced the total growth of approximately 3,672 new jobs,
accounting for $158.4 million in new payroll. the region also retained approximately 10,618 jobs. the 31 economic
development projects were led by caresource management group projecting an additional 650 jobs.

g4-ec7 development and impact of infrastructure investments
vectren invests substantially in natural gas pipeline infrastructure upgrade and replacement programs. these programs
include the replacement of aged bare steel and cast iron (bs/ci) distribution pipelines, as well as improvements to
transmission and other distribution gas system infrastructure assets. these investments are driven by existing or pending
pipeline safety regulations and existing transmission and distribution integrity management program requirements.
since 2008, vectren invested approximately $480 million in the replacement of aged bare steel and cast iron distribution
pipeline infrastructure in indiana and ohio. vectren has also invested approximately $156 million on improvements
to its transmission pipeline infrastructure since 2012, and $56 million on improvements to its distribution system
infrastructure since 2013. vectren’s total investment in infrastructure modernization programs in indiana and ohio is
approximately $692 million.
since their inception in 2008, vectren’s infrastructure modernization programs have had a total effect – the combined
direct, indirect and induced effects – of $1,269 million, including $430 million in labor income and an average of 840
jobs per year. direct effects from the programs have accounted for approximately $752 million of the total effect,
including $271 million in labor income and an average of 376 jobs per year. additionally, our programs are estimated to
have generated a total of $44 million in state and local taxes and $85 million in federal taxes over the 9 year investment
period.
in addition to $10 million in state and local taxes and $19 million in federal taxes, our 2016 programs generated $271
million in total effects, including $93 million in labor income and 1,634 jobs.
indiana programs
between 2008 and 2016, the total effect of vectren’s indiana pipeline infrastructure modernization programs is
estimated at $732 million, including $444 million, $158 million and $130 million in direct, indirect and induced effects,
respectively. the economic effect of our indiana efforts varies each year based on annual investment amounts, and
reached its highest annual total in 2015 at $163 million. the 2015 total effect consisted of $98 million in direct effects,
$35 million in indirect effects and $30 million in induced effects.
the economic contribution of our indiana pipeline infrastructure modernization programs can also be viewed through
employment totals, or the number of jobs created or sustained by the efforts. since 2008, an average of 502 jobs have
been created or sustained annually through all effects related to the programs; each year, an average of 238, 149 and
115 jobs have been contributed by direct, indirect and induced effects, respectively. the highest annual total was
recorded in 2015, when 1,077 jobs were created or sustained, including 538 related to direct effects, 296 related to
indirect effects and 243 related to induced effects.




                                                             17

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




labor income, which is also defined in terms of direct, indirect and induced contributions, totaled $254 million from
2008 to 2016, a figure consisting of $166 million, $49 million and $39 million in direct, indirect and induced labor
income, respectively. labor income reached its highest value in 2015 at $59 million, including $39 million in direct labor
income, $11 million in indirect labor income and $9 million in induced labor income.
lastly, the total contribution to state and local from the 9 year investment in vectren’s indiana pipeline infrastructure
modernization program is estimated at $25 million; the total contribution to federal taxes is estimated at $51 million. tax
amounts, which vary from year to year, reached their highest annual value in 2015 with an estimated $6 million in state
and local taxes and $12 million in federal taxes.
ohio programs
between 2009 and 2016, the total effect of vectren’s ohio pipeline infrastructure modernization programs is estimated
at $537 million, including $308 million, $125 million and $104 million in direct, indirect and induced effects, respectively.
the total economic effect of our ohio efforts, which varies based on annual investment amounts, reached $119 million
in 2016, the highest annual value since the program’s inception. the 2016 total effect consisted of $67 million in direct
effects, $27 million in indirect effects and $25 million in induced effects.
the economic contribution of our ohio pipeline infrastructure modernization programs can also be viewed through
employment totals, or the number of jobs created or sustained by the efforts. since 2009, an average of 380 jobs have
been created or sustained annually through all effects related to the programs; each year, an average of 156, 125 and 99
jobs have been contributed by direct, indirect and induced effects, respectively. the highest annual total was recorded
in 2016, when 730 jobs were created or sustained, including 323 related to direct effects, 217 related to indirect effects
and 190 related to induced effects.
labor income, which is also defined in terms of direct, indirect and induced contributions, totaled $176 million from
2009 to 2016, a figure consisting of $105 million, $39 million and $32 million in direct, indirect and induced labor
income, respectively. labor income reached its highest value in 2016 at $42 million, including $26 million in direct labor
income, $8 million in indirect labor income and $8 million in induced labor income.
lastly, the total contribution to state and local from the 8 year investment in vectren’s ohio pipeline infrastructure
modernization program is estimated at $19 million; the total contribution to federal taxes is estimated at $35 million. tax
amounts, which vary from year to year, reached their highest annual value in 2016 with an estimated $4 million in state
and local taxes and $8 million in federal taxes.

g4-dma availability and reliability
vectren maintains its generation fleet for reliable operation. an all-inclusive maintenance management process for work
identification, prioritization and scheduling allows us to achieve reliable operation of our generating units. continuous
improvement projects and employee training are also key elements of our short and mid-term reliability strategy. in the
long term, the integrated resource plan (irp) helps to assure the best resource plan is in place to reliably meet future
load requirements.

g4-eu10 planned capacity against projected electricity demand
planned capacity and projected demand are addressed in our integrated resource plan (irp), which is submitted to state
regulatory agencies. the 2016 irp can be viewed at http://www.vectren.com/irp.
no new capacity is currently under construction, however the 2016 irp release tells of future changes to our generation
portfolio. vectren’s existing coal fired generators are 100 percent equipped with sulphur dioxide (so2) scrubbers and 90
percent are equipped with selective catalytic reduction systems (scrs) for nitrogen oxide (nox) removal.

g4-dma demand side management
energy efficiency (ee) has generally been accepted as a critical function of utilities to mitigate climate change, delay the
need to build new generation, save customers money on their utility bills and improve customer satisfaction. vectren's
commitment to ee programs continues to achieve significant energy savings.
vectren’s gas and electric ee programs encourage customers to manage their energy use through a variety of approaches
including: residential and business audits which help customers identify energy savings opportunities; in-store lighting
discounts which apply utility-sponsored rebates at the time of purchase; appliance recycling which encourages
customers to remove their inefficient refrigerators and freezers; rebates on equipment and services which reduce the




                                                             18

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




initial higher costs for efficient products; home energy reports that utilize behavioral science to influence energy usage;
and commercial equipment upgrades and maintenance. in 2016, the vectren ee portfolio achieved more than 46,000
mwh electric savings and approximately 4.9 million therms for measures implemented or installed in that year. most of
these measures will continue to reap savings for many years to come. since their inception in 2010, vectren’s electric ee
programs have saved nearly 980 million kwh. vectren’s natural gas ee programs have saved approximately 140 million
therms since their inception in 2006.
vectren’s ee programs are generally separated into two groups: residential and commercial. in 2016, the residential
electric programs achieved over 25 million kwh of savings and the natural gas residential programs achieved
approximately 4 million therms of savings. the commercial electric programs achieved almost 21 million kwh of savings
and the natural gas business programs achieved an estimated 828 thousand therms of savings.
vectren's demand side management (dsm) program implementers are actively seeking and researching which
methodologies will most accurately estimate savings potentials and, in turn, allow vectren to offer the most cost
effective ee programs to its customers. expanding upon prior 2014 vectren thermostat research, a smart thermostat
demand response pilot was offered for the 2016 summer. two thousand smart thermostat units were installed in eligible
homes for with the intent of conducting a billing analysis for comparison to traditional summer cycler switches. demand
response capable smart thermostats will not only be a viable option for savings, but will serve as an avenue of customer
engagement.
the energy efficiency department has also altered its primary mix of light bulb offerings due to the energy independence
and security act (eisa) policies. larger amounts of led bulbs were incented in 2016, and leds became approximately
49 percent of all bulbs purchased in the 2016 residential lighting program. led bulbs will become the only bulb
incented by vectren in 2017 due to these bulb standards.
vectren continues to offer integrated ee programs, meaning that its electric and natural gas programs are jointly
delivered to best penetrate customer markets. with combined efforts, the same home or business may be given deeper
savings in the same retrofit rather than having to participate in separate programs.
demand response
vectren’s demand response program, referred to as summer cycler, is a voluntary energy management program which
briefly cycles air conditioning and water heating units in customer homes during periods of peak electricity demand.
summer cycler participants earn $5 monthly bill credits during the cooling season of june through september. by cycling
off major electric appliances for short periods of time, peak power demand can be trimmed with little or no customer
discomfort or inconvenience. as of 2016, about 23,000 residential customers have switches installed in their homes.
over the next decade, vectren plans to replace direct load control switches with smart thermostats. today, our direct
load control program is able to curtail 19.2 mw in peak demand savings during times of high use.

g4-dma research and development
vectren actively monitors and tracks trends and advancements in both conventional and emerging energy technologies
as a normal part of its operations. multiple departments engage in market research and strategic analysis of emerging
technologies and play an important role in understanding the future of the utility industry.
vectren colleagues actively develop and maintain relationships with industry peers and providers of equipment and
solutions. vectren also cultivates connections with public and private market and technical research organizations. the
company’s research activities cover a broad range of subject areas including distributed grid operations and energy
resources, environmental control technologies such as carbon capture and storage and other cutting edge innovations
such as energy storage and resource aggregation.
vectren also works to advance knowledge in customer facing technologies such as energy efficiency and distributed
generation. for example, in one current project (the urban living research center), the company is developing a living
research facility, a mixed use commercial and multi-family development, to test a variety of technologies right at the
nexus between the utility and its customers. technologies considered for inclusion in the project include zero energy
building, photovoltaics, behind- and front-of-the-meter lithium-ion battery storage, electric vehicle charging, high-
efficiency hvac and water heating technology and a host of other smart-home solutions driving the next-generation of
energy consumers.




                                                            19

        about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
              human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-eu11 average generation efficiency of thermal plants
                                                                  fleet efficiency (2016)

                                                                                                                           efficiency

  coal fleet annual efficiency                                                                            11,236.02 btu per kwh (30.4% efficient)

  natural gas peaking unit fleet efficiency                                                               12,877.52 btu per kwh (26.5% efficient)

                                 federal energy regulatory commission (ferc) form 1 heat rates (2016)

                                                           fuel burned           avg. fuel heat content           avg. btu per kwh of net generation

  a.b. brown units 1 & 2: coal                            1,015,044 tons                             11,614                                             11,276

  a.b. brown units 1 & 2: natural gas                        203,820 mcf                               1,022                                                   -

  a.b. brown unit 3: natural gas                             142,799 mcf                               1,022                                            12,472

  a.b. brown unit 3: oil                                      262 gallons                           139,000                                                    -

  a.b. brown unit 4: natural gas                             157,974 mcf                               1,022                                            12,219

  bags* 2: natural gas                                       111,633 mcf                               1,022                                            14,540

  f.b. culley: coal                                         542,827 tons                             11,312                                             11,213

  f.b. culley: natural gas                                   358,657 mcf                               1,022                                                   -

  northeast turbines (1 & 2): natural gas                       1,226 mcf                              1,022                                            13,441

  warrick unit 4: coal                                      404,892 tons                             11,555                                             11,166

  warrick unit 4: natural gas                                127,792 mcf                               1,022                                                   -
  heat rates shown are annual operating heat rates and include start up shutdown and the effects of low load operation. full load heat rates are better than
  the annual rates shown.
  * broadway avenue generating station


g4-eu12 transmission and distribution losses
transmission and distribution energy losses were 2.19 percent and 3.04 percent respectively, as a percentage of total
available energy for the twelve months ending december 31, 2016.




                                                                               20

          about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                                                 environmental
      this section of indicators contains information about our energy conservation initiatives and land
                                       and habitat management efforts.




energy
g4-dma energy
vectren actively monitors the consumption of energy, water and fuel to evaluate issues as they arise while
simultaneously developing and implementing energy efficient plans. all new utility, corporate and remodeled buildings
are designed to meet energy star® standards and with the minimization of energy use in mind. through the
implementation of new, relevant fleet vehicle technology, vectren continuously works towards building a more
sustainable fleet with lower overall fuel consumption.

g4-en6 energy efficiency initiatives
2016 facility improvements
in 2016, we made the following improvements to vectren facilities:
• installed new hvac equipment at various indiana facilities including noblesville, danville, bedford, facilties and fleet
  office, gas control it closet and norman p. wagner ups locations
• upgraded hvac control software for better control and system balance
• replaced 148,175 watt metal halide outdoor lights with 148, 60 watt led outdoor lights at the norman p. wagner
  building. this measure resulted in a reduction of 62,123 kwh annually, which is equivalent to 43.7 metric tons of
  greenhouse gas emissions. additionally, half of the lights are on an automated switch that turns the lights on only
  during non-daylight hours.
• replaced 345 florescent light fixtures with led light fixtures at vectren ohio locations resulting in annual energy
  savings of 144,953 kwh, which is equivalent to approximately 100 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions.
2016 fleet upgrades
in 2016, the following efficiency upgrades were made to vectren's vehicle fleet:
• purchased 1 plug-in, hybrid electric bucket truck
• replaced 35 light-duty vehicles with e85-compliant vehicles
• replaced 13 heavy-duty vehicles with bio-diesel (b20) capable trucks

g4-en8 water usage
please see the following table for information for water withdrawal by source. at a.b. brown, water withdrawal is
calculated using circulating water flows, outside temperature, percentage of evaporation loss, cooling tower cycles and
generating hours. at f.b. culley, water withdrawal is calculated using circulating temperature and flow data.

                                                       surface & ground water usage (2016)

                                                                                  surface water*          ground water

  a.b. brown                                                                       2,089.8 million gal.     382.6 million gal.

  f.b. culley                                                                     52,842.9 million gal.     116.9 million gal.

  total                                                                           54,932.7 million gal.    499.5 million gal.
  * surface water includes water from wetlands, rivers, lakes and oceans.




                                                                            21

          about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-en10 water recycling and reuse
                                                             water recycling & reuse (2016)

                                                                                                                      water recycled or reused

  a.b. brown                                                                                                                           139,379.6 million gal.

  f.b. culley                                                                                                                                   0.2 million gal.

  total                                                                                                                                139,379.8 million gal.
  the variance between plants is primarily attributable to recirculation in the cooling towers at a.b. brown. in addition, a.b. brown has the ability to reuse ash
  pond water in the plant.



g4-en21 air emissions
all emission tonnage measured data from cems (continuous emission monitoring system) and are as reported for the
various emissions allowance programs. cems are the utility industry standard emission measurement process.
                                                         annual system emissions (2015-2016)

                                                                                                               2015 (tons)                     2016 (tons)

  sulfur oxide (sox)                                                                                                      12,894                            6,004

  nitrogen oxide (nox)                                                                                                     4,639                            4,325

  particulate matter (pm)*                                                                                                    219                             279

  total                                                                                                                   17,752                          10,608
  * totals include vectren's share (50 percent) of total warrick unit 4 emissions.



g4-en25 transported hazardous waste
none

g4-en33 significant negative environmental impacts in the supply chain
vectren strives to reduce the consumption of new materials and the waste streams resulting from its extensive supply
chain. our robust reuse and recycle program for hazardous and non-hazardous waste has diverted more than a half
million tons of waste from the landfill each year, reducing the need to purchase new materials and generating new
revenue streams which help offset disposal costs. this program has been effective in reducing environmental impacts
while utilizing materials already in our supply chain.
for more about vectren's recycling programs, please see environmental dma: effluents and waste and environmental
indicator g4-en23.

g4-en34 environmental grievances filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms
none

emission s
g4-dma emissions
vectren is dedicated to environmental stewardship. our employees and their families live and work in the same cities
and towns, breathe the same air and utilize the same natural resources as our customers. we are committed to fully
complying with all environmental regulations and providing energy products and services that not only meet customer
needs, but also enhance the quality of life in each of our communities.
vectren's power system is one of the best controlled in the midwest. by investing millions of dollars in new emissions
control technology, we have been able to dramatically reduce emissions at existing facilities.




                                                                                 22

          about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




• since 2005 and through 2015, we have reduced emissions of co2 by 31 percent.
• so2 emissions are down more than 90 percent since 1970. all units in the vectren system are equipped with
  scrubbers for so2 control.
• nox emissions are down 80 percent since 1970. all units in the vectren system are controlled for nox, with four of
  the five units having selective catalytic reduction technology for advanced nox control.
• all units in vectren's system have advanced controls for particulate matter, with two units having state-of-the-art
  fabric filters which remove 99 percent of soot and dust.
current initiatives to increase conservation and reduce emissions include:
• implementing conservation initiatives in vectren's indiana and ohio natural gas utility service territories;
• implementing conservation and demand side management initiatives in our electric service territory;
• adding to a renewable energy portfolio to complement base load generation in advance of mandated renewable
  energy portfolio standards;
• evaluating potential carbon requirements with regard to new generation, other fuel supply sources and future
  environmental compliance plans;
• reducing vectren's carbon footprint by utilizing hybrid vehicles and optimizing generation efficiencies through dense
  pack technology;
• reducing methane emissions through the continued replacement of bare steel and cast iron gas distribution pipeline
  and other actions such as implementing distribution integrity management measures, installing more excess flow and
  remote control valves on service lines and transmission systems and enhancing damage prevention programs.

g4-en15 direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
electric generation data measurement is made by certified continuous emission monitors (cems) as required by federal
rule. these numbers are reported to epa via the clean air market division. natural gas peaking turbines are calculated
using the engineering calculation and air emission factor. co2 emissions from natural gas ldc operations are determined
using emission factors and calculations as required by the epa mandatory greenhouse gas reporting rule.
                                                annual co2 emissions (2016)

                                                                                                     metric tons of co2

  electric generation                                                                                            4,155,188

  natural gas ldc operations                                                                                      222,886

  total                                                                                                          4,378,074



efflu ents & was t e
g4-dma effluents and waste
vectren continues to seek commercial opportunities to recycle and reuse its waste products wherever possible and has a
robust recycling program in place across all business units.
in the energy delivery business, the gas distribution operations collect unused and expired natural gas pipeline for
plastic recycling. in the power supply business, the generating facilities have recycled nearly 90 percent of the fly ash
they have generated since 2009 for use by a cement kiln as a replacement for virgin materials. in addition, our f. b. culley
plant has recycled nearly 100 percent of the synthetic gypsum it has produced since 1996. construction routing for new
gas or electric transmission lines is planned to avoid or minimize disturbance of environmentally sensitive areas. vectren
has engaged in these partnerships with an understanding that a focus on recycling and conservation during the planning
and design phase of a project can yield significant savings by limiting the long-term environmental impact.
additional waste streams diverted from the landfill include paper, aluminum, plastic, cardboard, lamps, batteries, ballasts,
electronic waste, scrap metal, oil, wood debris and other items recycled, reused and donated to local charities.




                                                             23

          about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-en22 water discharge
                                                                 water discharges (2016)

                                                                                                                         amount discharged

  a.b. brown planned discharge                                                                                                           545.05 million gal.

  a.b. brown unplanned discharge                                                                                                            9.07 million gal.

  f.b. culley planned discharge                                                                                                     52,746.97 million gal.

  total                                                                                                                             53,301.09 million gal.
  volumes derived from flow measuring and calculations utilized for monthly national pollutant discharge elimination system (npdes) permit reporting.
  thermal discharges included. the variance between plants is primarily attributable to the cooling towers at a.b. brown. a.b. brown has the ability to reuse
  ash pond water. additionally, f.b. culley lowered ash pond levels, which resulted in higher-than-normal discharge.



g4-en23 total weight of waste
                                                             total weight of waste (2016)

                                                                                                  hazardous (tons)                non-hazardous (tons)

  power plant waste                                                                                                2.67                              1,080.44

  – a.b. brown waste                                                                                               2.66                                674.62

  – f.b. culley waste                                                                                              0.01                                405.82

  energy supply waste                                                                                              4.16                                627.51

  total                                                                                                            6.83                              1,707.95

                                                      recycling totals by type of waste (2016)

                                                                                                                           pounds recycled

  paper                                                                                                                                              576,776

  aluminum                                                                                                                                             24,455

  plastic                                                                                                                                              20,861

  cardboard                                                                                                                                          351,420

  fly ash                                                                                                                                      247,878,000

  gypsum                                                                                                                                       356,322,000

  lamps                                                                                                                                                  2,810

  batteries                                                                                                                                              2,802

  electronics                                                                                                                                          14,645

  scrap metals                                                                                                                                       656,893

  transformers                                                                                                                                       654,321

  oil                                                                                                                                                  15,750

  glycol                                                                                                                                                 1,078

  industrial plastics                                                                                                                                  79,600

  wood pallets and reels                                                                                                                               46,330

  tree trimmings                                                                                                                                     811,000




                                                                               24

          about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                         recycling totals by type of waste (2016)

                                                                                             pounds recycled

  automotive batteries                                                                                           17,350

  tires                                                                                                          69,111

  total                                                                                                   607,545,202



environm en tal co m p l ian c e
g4-dma environmental compliance
vectren seeks to maintain 100 percent compliance with all environmental regulations. a reportable environmental
incidents matrix is used to document and communicate potential environmental concerns. regular meetings are held
with operations, management and engineering staff to review expectations and provide guidance on how to avoid
deviations.

g4-en29 fines and sanctions related to environmental laws and regulations
none


environm en tal (overal l )
g4-dma environmental
vectren strives to protect and preserve the environment which hosts our facilities and carries our pipelines and power
lines. our environmental policy requires us to operate in full compliance with applicable legal requirements and we
hold ourselves and those working on our behalf accountable for this commitment. we constantly seek out ways to
improve energy delivery while reducing our impact on the environment. we have made strides to protect air, water and
land quality by installing emissions control equipment on our power plants, improving the efficiency of our materials
purchasing process, participating in stewardship projects and substantially reducing our waste streams through reuse and
recycle programs (see g4-en23 for details on waste volumes diverted from the landfill). we work with environmental
stakeholders at the national, state and local levels to identify and advance environmental and energy policies which
benefit customers, shareholders and communities. we make environmental performance metrics available on an annual
basis to reiterate our commitment to transparency in operations, aid in open discussions on environmental issues and
build trust in the community.

g4-en31 environmental protection expenditures and investments
vectren's environmental protection expenditures include annual costs for environmental compliance, ongoing operations
and maintenance, chemicals and capital improvements.

                                environmental protection expenditures & investments (2016)

  expenditure type                                                                                expenditure amount

  manufactured gas plant (mgp) remediation                                                                      $13,456

  air protection expenditures                                                                             $37,109,160

  waste and water expenditures                                                                            $30,943,895

  permit expenditures                                                                                          $412,133

  total 2016 environmental protection investment                                                          $68,478,644




                                                           25

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                                  labor practices
   this section of indicators contains information about the composition of our workforce, compensation
                                    practices and labor relations initiatives.




employ m en t
g4-dma employment
given the rapidly evolving energy industry in which we operate, vectren understands investing in its workforce is
critical to our future success. we know great companies are made up of great people and we’re committed to providing
employees the tools and resources necessary for success and safety.
learning and development
vectren fosters a work environment which encourages ongoing learning and development. online learning programs are
offered to employees through a personalized learning and development system, learn connection. learn connection
houses an extensive library of online courses, which cover everything from competency-based training to modules
specific to the energy industry. employees interested in furthering their education may participate in vectren’s tuition
reimbursement program for qualifying education expenses. onsite training sessions are used to meet the unique needs
of our workforce. career development tools and resources help employees grow and develop the right skills to meet
their career goals and the changing requirements of the business.
vectren's emerging leaders mentoring program pairs less experienced employees who demonstrate leadership
capabilities and a commitment to company values with more experienced employees in leadership roles. the purpose
of the program is to develop the leadership skills of emerging talent and ensure vectren has an appropriate supply of
talented leadership and a continuity of culture.
health and wellness
vectren has continually devoted its energy in preserving a culture of health and wellness for all of its employees by
offering programs and services to support their physical and emotional well-being. vectren promotes a positive work-life
balance due to the physical and mental demands placed on their workforce by offering paid holidays, vacation days and
paid time off for approved volunteer projects. vectren offers a 401(k) savings plan to current and new hire employees.
employees and eligible family members receive health, dental and vision insurance options as well as long term disability,
short term disability and life insurance options. flexible pre-tax spending accounts and health savings accounts are also
available to employees.
vectren’s employee assistance program (eap) offers a wide range of employee assistance and well-being services.
employees and eligible family members have access to free and confidential professional care, self-help programs,
interactive tools and educational resources addressing life and work issues. the program can help with family support,
substance abuse, counseling services, relationships and financial and legal advice. the employee assistance program is
available around the clock to support employees with everyday challenges or more serious complex problems.
vectren offers numerous established wellness programs to support employees. participation in wellness programs have
achieved high levels of participation and continue to increase primarily due to upper management involvement and
support, two comprehensive worksite health and wellness centers staffed with a physician, nurse practitioners, licensed
practical nurses, wellness nurse, health specialist, health coach and a dietician, an established wellness committee with
wellness champions for our outlying area and incentives for health achievements and participation in programs.
vectren offers employees onsite biometric screenings, including cholesterol, blood pressure, blood sugar, tobacco usage
and body mass index (bmi) checks, with simultaneous online health risk appraisals for employees and spouses and
influenza vaccinations to employees. an extensive wellness portal with exercise and calorie trackers, health articles and
various behavior modification courses such as weight loss, nutrition, exercise, tobacco cessation, stress management
and alcohol abuse is available to help employees reach their health goals. lunch and learn webinars focusing on
important wellness topics are offered as well as healthy cooking classes and healthy nutrition stations for food sampling.
fitness and self-defense classes, wellness walks and basketball leagues help employees stay active. challenges such




                                                            26

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




as a maintain don’t gain, a pedometer challenge and an annual get down campaign entices employees to focus on
wellness to achieve wellness incentives. each month, vectren recognizes a wellness person of the month that highlights
employees that have overcome a health challenge or maintained a healthy lifestyle. vectren’s approach of positive
reinforcement continues to drive positive results as evidenced in our biometric screening results.
as a result of creating a culture of wellness, vectren was awarded the american heart association’s fit friendly platinum
award in april 2016 and achieved the gold wellness council of america (welcoa) “well workplace” award in may
2014. vectren will be applying for platinum welcoa “well workplace” award in 2017.
safety
we have gained considerable momentum in terms of safety culture improvement and injury prevention in recent years
by increasing collaboration, communication and engagement with employees at all levels of the organization.
safety – collaboration
vectren continues to empower our safety culture teams at the grassroots level and provide two-way communication
between the local teams and the jointly-led safety culture advisory team. the advisory team, which is a mix of executive,
operations and union leadership, meets quarterly to review any over-arching concerns that surface from guidance teams
and provides guidance and support of the strategic vision to improve culture and keep our employees, contractors and
the public safe.
to help the local teams improve processes and solve problems autonomously, the advisory team has been working with
vectren’s performance management and continuous improvement department to provide formal training and continuous
improvement events that enable cross-functional process mapping, root cause analysis and structured problem solving
so issues can be addressed by those involved with the work. these tools are inspiring and enabling our workforce to
promote changes necessary to enhance safety.
safety – communication
based on feedback from the safety culture advisory team and a safety culture assessment completed in 2013, we
decided to focus our attention on improving communication. we send routine and formal communication including
weekly near misses and lessons learned, safety reports, the safety buzz newsletter, as well as monthly motor vehicle
incident summary with preventative measures and an injury prevention update. we communicate less content more
frequently and leverage technology to its fullest potential since all field employees now have email and mobile devices.
safety – engagement
the growth of our safety management system continues to help employees protect our workforce, assets and the public
from risk while aligning us with future regulation. the safety management system vision is to empower others to live
safely by actively reducing risks, aligning priorities throughout the organization and focusing on the everyday journey to
zero incidents.
our long-term vision for colleague engagement includes continued growth of current safety initiatives relative to
collaboration, communication and continuous improvement. we believe by involving our workforce in activities that
support the mission and vision of our organization, we can learn from the past and work together toward a more
effective, safe and efficient future for all.

g4-la1     new employee hires and employee turnover
                                             new employee hires by gender (2013-2016)

                                                                     2013          2014          2015           2016

  male external hires                                                     67             121        146              99

  female external hires                                                   46              37          68             68

  total external hires                                                   113             158        214            167

  total female external hires (% of total)                             40.7%            23.4%     31.8%          40.7%




                                                               27

     about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
           human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                             new employee hires by age group (2016)

                                                                    2013              2014       2015       2016

under 25                                                                 19              17         24         20

25-30                                                                    22              39         50         38

30-35                                                                    26              41         47         29

35-40                                                                    14              27         33         24

40-45                                                                    12              11         18         20

45-50                                                                    10              15         19         14

50-55                                                                        6               5      13             9

55-60                                                                        4               2          9          7

60-65                                                                        0               1          1          6

total employee hires                                                    113             158        214        167


                                         new employee minority hires (2013-2016)

                                                                    2013              2014       2015       2016

total minority external hires                                            27              32         42         21

total minority external hires (% of total)                            23.9%            20.3%      19.6%      12.6%


                                                      turnover (2013-2016)

                                                                    2013              2014       2015       2016

voluntary separations                                                   103             136        120        106

– voluntary retirements                                                  64              74         52         52

– voluntary resignations                                                 39              62         68         54

involuntary separations                                                  17              22         15         15

total separations (voluntary and involuntary)                           120             158        135        121


                                     retirements & resignations by gender (2013-2016)

                                                                    2013              2014       2015       2016

retirements                                                              64              74         52         52

– male retirements                                                       57              65         38         37

– female retirements                                                         7               9      14         15

resignations                                                             39              62         68         54

– male resignations                                                      16              30         41         26

– female resignations                                                    23              32         27         28




                                                              28

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                      retirements & resignations by age (2013-2016)

                                                                     2013          2014            2015           2016

  retirements                                                           64              74              52             52

  – 55-64 retirements                                                   41              63              33             36

  – 65 & over retirements                                               23              11              19             16

  resignations                                                          39              62              68             54

  – under 25 resignations                                                   1             4               5              2

  – 25-34 resignations                                                  19              22              33             18

  – 35-44 resignations                                                  10              22              14             16

  – 45-54 resignations                                                      5           11                9              9

  – 55-64 resignations                                                      4             2               5              6

  – 65 & over resignations                                                  0             1               2              3


g4-la2 benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees
vectren does not provide benefits to temporary or part-time employees. please see the benefits & compensation page
(http://www.vectren.com/careers/compensation) on vectren.com for more information on our employee benefits.

g4-eu15 employees eligible for retirement
eligibility of retirement is available for all employees age 55 and over with at least 10 years of service. as of december
31, 2016:
• 487 employees are eligible for retirement,
• 704 employees will be eligible for retirement in five years, and
• 984 employees will be eligible for retirement in 10 years.


occu patio n al h ealt h & saf et y
g4-dma occupational health and safety
vectren is dedicated to providing a safe and healthy workplace and to conducting business with the utmost regard for
the health and safety of our employees, customers and the public. this philosophy is in accordance with our mission to
integrate a strong focus on safety and health into day-to-day business management and process design. no aspect of
operations is more important than the health and safety of our stakeholders.
vectren is committed to complying with all applicable government regulations and internal health and safety
requirements and maintaining management systems designed to ensure compliance. we commit to continual
improvements of these health and safety management systems and strive for best-in-class performance within the
energy industry. in order to accomplish this, we establish health and safety objectives and targets, conduct regular
management system and performance evaluations and frequently report the results to employees, customers and the
public for accountability.
we encourage interested parties, including employees and the public, to voice safety concerns and suggestions. to
promote transparency, we openly communicate and share information regarding our health and safety systems and the
impacts of our activities, services and products.
within vectren, departmental leadership is primarily responsible for implementing our health and safety policy and
allocating resources to establish and support health and safety programs. management, at all levels, will take actions to
ensure all employees understand the meaning and importance of the policy.
while management must provide the leadership and support essential to maintaining a safe and healthy work
environment, it is the responsibility of every vectren employee to make safety an integral part of his or her daily work.
each employee will be held accountable for his/her individual safety performance in alignment with our health and safety
procedures and programs.




                                                             29

          about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-la5 workforce representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees
vectren emphasizes a commitment to safety across all of our utility operations. a safety team comprised of senior
leaders, safety personnel and key members of operations meets regularly to discuss safety strategy. at the director
level, we have formal safety committees which are spearheaded by operations personnel and include both bargaining
unit and non-bargaining unit employees. approximately 11 percent of the workforce is involved in these formal safety
committees.

g4-la6 injuries, occupational diseases, absenteeism and work-related fatalities
rules for reporting accident statistics & definitions
vectren reports and records safety statistics in accordance with osha recordkeeping standards. please see recording
and reporting occupational injuries and illness to review the osha standards related to recordkeeping. (source: osha
recordkeeping standard 1904)
• osha recordable cases: definition of “recordable” per osha recordkeeping standard 1904 (i.e., “a work-related
  injury or illness resulting in medical treatment beyond first aid”). calculation: total osha cases ytd
• osha recordable rate: incidence rate of osha recordables based on number of man-hours. calculation: # of osha
  recordables x 200,000/man-hours
• dart cases: osha recordable resulting in days away, restricted or transferred. calculation: total dart cases ytd
• dart (incidence) rate: incidence rate of dart cases based on number of man-hours. calculation: # of dart cases x
  200,000/man-hours
• dart severity rate: severity rate of dart cases based on lost time (more days away = more severe cases)
  calculation: # of dart days x 200,000/man-hours
injury tracking
we track first-aid injuries which require treatment at a medical facility but do not result in an osha recordable case
(based on the osha recordkeeping standard describing the difference between first aid and cases – 29cfr1904).
incidents only requiring on-site first-aid intervention are not currently included in this tracking, but are reviewed by
safety personnel for future prevention.
injury time
per the osha recordkeeping standard, “days away” means calendar days, and the count begins on the first day after the
illness or injury.
injury rate for total workforce
the injury rate for total workforce is equivalent to the “osha rate” on vectren reports. see the following chart:
                                              osha recordables & rate (2016)

  group/location                                                         osha recordables                osha rate

  energy delivery                                                                          20                         2.58

  power supply                                                                              3                         1.67

  utility support                                                                           1                         6.96

  corporate                                                                                 0                         0.00

  total                                                                                    24                         1.40

injury rate by gender
vectren does not currently track injury rate, or osha rate, by gender. measures are currently being implemented to
disclose this data in future reports.
injury rate for independent contractors
a portion of injury rate data for independent contractors is tracked by miccs (metro indianapolis coalition for
construction safety, inc.), to manage our contractor’s safety pre-qualification. contractors must be certified before they
can work for vectren. miccs data is not available for this report as its database is shared amongst many companies and
the data is not aggregated to exclusively include contractors hired by vectren.




                                                             30

          about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




occupational diseases rate
the occupational diseases rate (odr) for total workforce (total employees plus supervised workers) is zero. this rate is
not tracked for independent contractors.
lost day rate
the lost day rate is equivalent to the "dart rate" on vectren reports. the dart data in the following chart does not
include independent contractors.
                                          dart rate & dart severity rate (2016)

  group/location                                                             dart rate               dart severity rate

  energy delivery                                                                         1.68                       34.99

  power supply                                                                            1.11                       50.09

  corporate                                                                               0.00                        0.00

  total                                                                                   0.87                       21.04

fatalities
no workforce fatalities were recorded during the reporting period. this is not tracked for independent contractors.

g4-la8 health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions
topics covered in formal labor agreements related to safety include:
• membership support of a safe working environment;
• provision to provide personal protective equipment/uniforms;
• formation of safety committees;
• additional benefits for employees who suffer work related injuries beyond state workers compensation provisions; and
• implementation of safety rules.


t rainin g & ed uc at io n
g4-dma training & education
vectren provides training to ensure employees have the knowledge and skills necessary to perform their work safely and
efficiently. training is a requirement for all field employees to acquire the knowledge and skills required to perform job
functions, improve upon existing knowledge and skills and capitalize on increased efficiencies and ensuring a safer work
environment.
vectren’s technical training department develops, coordinates and provides instruction on job-specific training and
qualifications, including (but not limited to) designing, constructing, operating and maintaining vectren’s gas and electric
infrastructure. the training and qualifications are tracked and reported by the technical training department and are
evaluated to determine performance gaps and mitigating measures necessary to meet workforce needs.
vectren’s operator qualification (oq) program and training materials are reviewed on an annual basis. in addition,
technical training continually monitors triggers that may necessitate additional reviews of the oq program and/or
training materials. these triggers include modifications to policies or procedures, changes in state or federal regulations,
individual performance problems and the use of new equipment, technology and information from equipment or product
manufacturers.
technical training is typically conducted in one of two locations – evansville, indiana for electric operations and franklin,
indiana for gas operations. training is also provided at each of the local operating centers. field employees receive
initial training through the apprenticeship programs and receive subsequent training based on the type of work being
performed. to meet vectren’s oq requirements, employees demonstrate task-specific competencies by successfully
completing the required performance evaluations, which are pass/fail.
vectren currently has 159 apprentices enrolled, with plans to hire 15-20 apprentices in 2017. total headcount for field
employees in 2016 was approximately 780.




                                                             31

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-la10 skills management and lifelong learning programs
in order to maintain a high level of employee engagement, vectren must ensure colleagues are provided the time, tools,
training and opportunity to succeed. employees have access to free online learning modules through our portal.
career paths, our learning portal, provides an understanding of the competencies and experience required for each
position and illustrate potential moves between various positions within a business unit as well as transitions to other
relevant business units. these career paths may assist employees to identify personal development strategies and define
clear and realistic paths for achieving career objectives.
as part of the hr integrated strategy, understanding the value of competencies for both individual and organizational
performance is critical as it aligns measurable behaviors that drive performance. implementing a talent management
system based on a competency foundation is vital to providing effective workforce and succession planning, diagnosing
developmental needs and assisting with career planning decisions. vectren has identified core competencies that are
expected of all colleagues, built upon this core with job specific competencies and identified business unit specific
competencies to further define success in a position. these competencies enable vectren to provide the strategic
recruitment and development required by the business.
please see the careers page (http://www.vectren.com/careers) on vectren.com for additional information on skills and
learning opportunities for employees.

g4-la11 percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
our philosophy and expectations are that all non-bargaining employees receive an evaluation of their skills and/
or performance on an annual basis. vectren is transitioning to quarterly feedback sessions leading up to the annual
performance review.


d iver sity & eq ual o p p o rt un it y
g4-dma diversity and equal opportunity
over the past year and a half, the human resources advisory committee (hrac) has been working to ensure that our
diversity and inclusion initiatives continue to support our corporate goal of being a leader in diversity and inclusion. at
vectren, we recognize that people are what differentiate a high performing company resulting in better communities,
customer service, innovative energy solutions and financial outperformance relative to our peers. in order to be
successful as a company, it is our people that drive that differentiation and success.
what sets us apart is how intentional and
deliberate our efforts and actions are in this
area, driven by our human equity strategy.
we believe that moving from "diversity" to
"inclusion" and, ultimately, "human equity" (d,
i & he) is a required shift. our strategy aims to
ensure that each employee feels valued, included
and is an integral part of our organization’s
success. this positions us to leverage the unique
skills, attributes and talents of each individual.
ultimately, this will result in vectren being an
employer of choice for all. this strategy was
developed along with hrac, our vice president
of human resources, manager of diversity and
inclusion and trevor wilson, the author of the
equity continuum and the human equity model.
the d, i & he strategy is divided into four key
focus areas, each of which has three sub-
taskforces. each area or pillar focuses on defined
strategic initiatives, projects and programs to




                                                             32

          about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
                human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




drive our transformation and will be led by our senior executives and vice president of human resources. the taskforce
includes approximately 90 colleagues across the organization, and includes both bargaining and non-bargaining
colleagues from all levels of the company. the taskforces have been meeting since march 2016.

g4-la12 composition and diversity of governance bodies and workforce
the following tables detail the gender and ethnicity breakdown of our total workforce. please see response to standard
disclosures indicator g4-38 for a breakdown of the board.

                                                      gender analysis by eeo category (2016)

                                     female (% of total females)                    male (% of total males)                  total (female % of total)

  senior executive                                             1 (0.2%)                                   5 (0.4%)                            6 (16.7%)

  vice president/director                                     17 (3.0%)                                  38 (2.9%)                           55 (30.9%)

  manager/supervisor                                         85 (14.9%)                                219 (17.0%)                         304 (28.0%)

  customer service                                          114 (19.9%)                                  24 (1.9%)                         138 (82.6%)

  office and clerical                                       142 (24.8%)                                  29 (2.2%)                         171 (83.0%)

  other non-bargaining                                      175 (30.6%)                                311 (24.1%)                         486 (36.0%)

  bargaining                                                  38 (6.6%)                                666 (51.5%)                           704 (5.4%)

  total                                                    572 (100.0%)                          1,292 (100.0%)                           1,864 (30.7%)


                                                     minority analysis by eeo category (2016)

                                   minority (% of total minorities)          non-minority (% of total non-minorities)           total (minority % of total)

  senior executive                                            0 (0.0%)                                            6 (0.4%)                      6 (0.0%)

  vice president/director                                     7 (3.5%)                                           48 (2.8%)                   55 (12.7%)

  manager/supervisor                                         18 (8.7%)                                       286 (17.3%)                     304 (5.9%)

  customer service                                          33 (16.0%)                                          105 (6.3%)                 138 (23.9%)

  office and clerical                                       31 (15.0%)                                          140 (8.5%)                 171 (18.1%)

  other non-bargaining                                      51 (24.8%)                                       431 (26.1%)                   482 (10.6%)

  bargaining                                                66 (32.0%)                                       638 (38.6%)                     704 (9.4%)

  total                                              206 (100.0%)*                                       1,654 (100.0%)*                1,860 (100.0%)*
  * four employees in 2016 did not specify an ethnicity.



                                       females & minorities as percentage of workforce (2012-2016)

                                                             2012                 2013                   2014                2015              2016

  regular headcount                                            1,742                 1,733                 1,747                1,823             1,864

  – regular headcount - female                                   532                   538                   535                 554                 572

  – regular headcount - minority                                 156                   168                  181*                194*               206*

  – % female                                                   30.5%                31.0%                  30.6%               30.4%              30.7%

  – % minority                                                  9.0%                  9.7%                10.4%*              10.6%*             11.1%*
  * one, five and four employees in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively, did not specify an ethnicity.




                                                                               33

        about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
              human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                         ethnicity as percentage of employee group (2014-2016)

                                                                                                     2014        2015        2016

white                                                                                                 1,565       1,624       1,654

– % white                                                                                             89.6%       89.3%       88.9%

black/african-american                                                                                  128         132         138

– % black/african-american                                                                             7.3%        7.3%        7.4%

hispanic/latino                                                                                             20          22          24

– % hispanic/latino                                                                                    1.2%        1.2%        1.3%

asian                                                                                                       11          13          16

– % asian                                                                                              0.6%        0.7%        0.9%

american indian/alaska native                                                                                7           5           4

– % american indian/alaska native                                                                      0.4%        0.3%        0.2%

native hawaiian/other pacific islander                                                                       0           1           1

– % native hawaiian/other pacific islander                                                             0.0%        0.1%        0.1%

two or more races (not hispanic or latino)                                                                  15          21          23

– % two or more races (not hispanic or latino)                                                         0.9%        1.2%        1.2%

total                                                                                                 1,746*      1,818*      1,860*
* one, five and four employees in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively, did not specify an ethnicity.




                                                                             34

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                                   human rights
   this section of indicators contains information regarding our non-discrimination policies and provides
                                   insight into incidents of discrimination.




non-d is c rim in at io n
g4-dma non-discrimination
the purpose of vectren's anti-harassment and non-discrimination policy is to establish a work environment in which
all individuals are treated with respect and dignity by spreading awareness as to the definition and various forms of
discrimination and harassment.
each individual has the right to work in a professional atmosphere which promotes equal opportunity and prohibits
discrimination and harassment. therefore, we expect all relationships among persons in the workplace will be business-
like and free of bias, prejudice and discrimination.
vectren prohibits discrimination and harassment by fellow employees, whether it be a supervisor, manager, supervised
employee, or a third party who does business with the company (e.g., an outside vendor, consultant or customer).
according to our policy, discriminatory conduct is prohibited in the workplace, on company property and in any work-
related setting outside the workplace, such as during business travel, meetings and business-related social events. all
employees are expected to refrain from discrimination and harassment of others.
the company prohibits retaliation against any individual who, in good faith, reports discrimination or harassment or
participates in an investigation of such reports.

g4-hr3 incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken
vectren had no substantiated legal claims of discrimination in 2016.




                                                            35

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                                          society
  this section of indicators contains information about our impact on the communities we serve, how we
      mitigate the risk of bribery and corruption in our operations and our approach to public policy.




local com m un it ies
g4-dma local communities
one of vectren’s core values is a commitment to the communities in which we live and serve. our commitment to
community is demonstrated by our financial and human resource contributions.
vectren foundation
the vectren foundation was established in 2000 to provide support for the many nonprofit organizations in the
communities served by our utility operations. annually, vectren allocates a percentage of a 3-year trailing average of
pre-tax income to fund the foundation and corporate contributions. this percentage grew from 1 percent in 2015, to 1.1
percent in 2016, and growth is targeting 1.5 percent by 2020. in 2016, vectren and the vectren foundation contributed
$3.2 million to 552 organizations in three primary areas of focus: access to and advancement in education, energy
conservation & environmental stewardship and community revitalization & sustainability.
community catalyst, a key program initiated by the vectren foundation, uses an asset-based community development
model to focus resources on revitalizing high-stress neighborhoods. through this effort, vectren partners and
collaborates with like-minded entities across a number of fields including education, healthcare, faith and non-profit, as
well as neighborhood residents. in 2016, the foundation served as the catalyst in convening and collaborating with the
following communities in vectren’s service territory: anderson, dayton, evansville, lafayette, marion, muncie and terre
haute. an estimated 9,500 homes were impacted.

                                         ongoing community catalyst initiatives (2016)

                                organize                              decide                             act
      location              build relationships,          visioning, working groups, action   action plan, implementation,
                             identify partners                 planning, early actions                 evaluation

  anderson, ind.                                                (current stage)

  dayton, ohio                                                  (current stage)

  lafayette, ind.                                               (current stage)

  terre haute, ind.                                                                              (current stage)

  evansville, ind.                                                                               (current stage)

  marion, ind.                                                                                   (current stage)

  muncie, ind.                                                                                   (current stage)

human resources
vectren employees share in the commitment to community by volunteering their time and talents, whether by serving
on a nonprofit board, contributing personal funding to a local charity, or spending a day volunteering at a local agency.
our employees are community-minded and highly engaged. volunteer hours continue to increase annually–approaching
48,000 hours (combined on-the-clock and off-the-clock) in 2016. the vectren foundation provides matching programs
for hours invested by employees as well as contributions made to colleges and universities. these programs accounted
for $57,600 dollars in 2016. finally, a matching program also exists for contributions to local united way organizations
within vectren’s service territory. the 2016 united way campaign generated $716,600 in employee giving and
foundation matching.
employees are also encouraged to engage in leadership positions in the communities we serve. in 2016, vectren officers,
directors and managers held board and committee positions over 180 community-minded organizations.




                                                              36

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




relocation assistance program
vectren makes every effort to minimize the impact on property owners in our service territory. however, circumstances
arise when relocation is required in order to maintain the integrity of our energy delivery system to ensure safety and
reliability for neighboring property owners and customers.
vectren’s relocation assistance program is designed to help minimize any hardships residential or commercial property
owners may experience when relocation is required. all property owners displaced by a pipeline or similar utility project
undertaken by vectren are offered relocation assistance services for the purpose of locating a suitable replacement
property. a relocation agent is available for each impacted property owner and has the ability to assist with the following:
• determine any special needs and requirements;
• explain the relocation process and entitlements;
• offer relocation advisory assistance;
• ensure the availability of a comparable property in advance of displacement;
• provide referrals to comparable properties;
• provide the amount of maximum replacement housing entitlement in writing 90 days or more before the required
  vacate date;
• inspect replacement homes for decent, safe and sanitary (dss) standards;
• supply information about other federal, state and local programs offering assistance to displaced persons; and
• provide assistance to minimize hardships.

g4-so1 operations with local community engagement, assessments and development programs
each of our operating units employs a system for handling community concerns on a local level. we also share issues
among units and develop shared solutions where appropriate.

g4-eu22 individuals physically or economically displaced and compensation
there were no physically or economically displaced persons in 2016.

g4-dma disaster/emergency planning and response
disaster/emergency preparedness and response
disaster/emergency preparedness and response are key components of vectren’s enterprise-wide risk management
program. our crisis management and emergency response personnel are trained to identify, evaluate and manage a
wide variety of natural and man-made hazards including, but not be limited to, those caused by fires, earthquakes,
floods, ice storms, tornadoes, acts of civil unrest or workplace violence, pandemic/infectious disease, physical attacks,
cyber-attacks, or other similar occurrences that adversely affect our stakeholders. additionally, vectren monitors and
participates in industry groups related to preparedness and response for electromagnetic pulses (emps) and geomagnetic
disturbances (gmd).
in accordance with customary industry practices, vectren maintains insurance against a significant portion of these
hazards and related losses.
crisis management and response
vectren has comprehensive crisis management and emergency response plans designed to ensure we react timely and
appropriately to crises, maintain or resume critical business functions and communicate effectively with all stakeholder
groups. the plans are also designed to ensure best practices and lessons learned are applied consistently across the
organization.
under these plans we conduct drills, tabletop exercises and educational sessions internally and with local, regional and
national groups to test our crisis management in the areas of operations, communications and corporate support. the
drills, tabletop exercises and educational sessions include participation by our senior leadership, emergency responders
and business unit stakeholders.
physical and cybersecurity
vectren has implemented processes to align with the core security activities – identify, protect, detect, respond,
recover. vectren has dedicated and third-party physical and cybersecurity teams to identify, protect and detect both
physical and cyber-attacks. crisis management and emergency response plans are in place to both respond and recover




                                                            37

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




from physical and cyber events. these events could include attacks on company facilities, malicious cyber-attacks,
data breaches, user errors, or other activities which impact operations or disclose sensitive or confidential information.
vectren assesses plans and controls when new threats are identified.
vectren participates in local, state-level and national information sharing programs to share and receive indicators of
compromises and lessons learned. in addition, vectren has joined the national level cyber mutual assistance program
where utilities across the country provide aid to member utilities during a cybersecurity event.


ant i-co rrup t io n
g4-dma anti-corruption
the vice president of corporate audit oversees vectren’s ethics program and monitors the company's overall adherence
to the ethical standards established in our corporate code of conduct. the vice president of corporate audit reports
functionally to the audit committee of the board and administratively to the executive vice president and chief legal
and external affairs officer. the direct line of communication to the audit committee and the executive vice president
emphasizes the vice president of corporate audit’s governance role within the organization.
vectren’s ethics program employs the following instruments for avoiding and managing corruption:
• our corporate code of conduct directs employees to avoid relationships with, and financial interests in, business
  partners and those who are seeking to become business partners. further, our code requires employees owning
  or acquiring a financial interest in a vendor, supplier, or contractor to report such relationships to their immediate
  supervisor using a prescribed form. if the supervisor determines a conflict exists, the supervisor is required to contact
  the appropriate executive officer and the corporate audit department for resolution. for information on how conflicts
  of interest for the highest governance body are avoided and managed, please see response to standard disclosures
  indicator g4-41.
• our corporate code of conduct prohibits employees from accepting gifts, favors, or entertainment that compromise,
  or appear to compromise their ability to make objective business decisions. employees are required to report gifts,
  business meals or entertainment, services, or anything else from a single business partner, of more than a nominal
  value, to their immediate supervisor using a prescribed form.
• significant vendors, suppliers and contractors are kept aware of our code provisions regarding conflicts of interests
  and inappropriate gifts, favors and entertainments via an annual letter.
• vectren provides various methods for employees to seek advice or report compliance issues. for more information on
  the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice or reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior,
  please see responses to standard disclosures indicators g4-57 and g4-58.
• vectren has adopted a fraud and misconduct reporting framework to ensure code violations are investigated and
  questions are addressed in a timely, consistent manner. this framework ensures communication channels are known
  among the business units, subsidiaries and the corporate office. the framework affirms theft and corruption of any
  size violates trust is not tolerated and will be dealt with swiftly.

g4-so4 anti-corruption training, communication, policies and procedures
employees receive code of conduct training as part of new hire orientation. on an annual basis all non-bargaining, utility
bargaining, officers and board members complete code of conduct acknowledgements. vectren's intranet provides
information related to our code of conduct and how to report issues and seek advice. issues may be reported by
contacting a manager or the vice president of corporate audit, and can also be reported anonymously by email, internet,
or hotline. any deliberate failure to disclose violations may result in disciplinary action.


pu blic po l ic y
g4-dma public policy
public policy decisions can affect businesses, and at vectren we believe engaging in the political process is in the best
interest of our company, employees and stakeholders. we track proposed legislation at the federal, state and local level
and advocate our positions when appropriate. we strive to educate public officials about our businesses, the impacts of
potential policy decisions and participate in industry trade associations to assist in developing industry-wide positions,
including memberships in the edison electric institute (eei), american gas association (aga), indiana energy association
(iea) and ohio gas association (oga).




                                                             38

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




as part of our commitment to contemporary governance practices, we regularly report our corporate political activities
to the board’s corporate responsibility and sustainability committee.

g4-so5 confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken
in 2016, 60 employees (out of approximately 5,900) were terminated for reasons other than performance. two tier
1 allegations were made in 2016, neither of which were determined to have merit. the corporate audit department
monitored the completion of 12 investigations of allegations made anonymously and/or through the ethics hotline. upon
conclusion of the investigations monitored by corporate audit, no confirmed incidents of corruption were identified.

g4-so6 political contributions
the vectren corporation federal employees' political action committee (vectren pac) provides our employees a voice in
the political process. the vectren pac is a voluntary employee political action committee and, through the vectren pac,
we make bipartisan political contributions where permitted by law. we comply with all federal election commission and
state regulations, and pac contributions are publicly disclosed in our filings with state and federal election commissions
and agencies. in recognition of various stakeholder interests, all pac activities are overseen by the pac board.
we voluntarily prohibit corporate dollars from being used to directly benefit a candidate or party. we also do not make
corporate expenditures, as authorized by the citizens united decision, and do not have any plans to do so at this time.
as part of our commitment to contemporary governance practices, we regularly report our corporate political activities
to the board’s corporate responsibility and sustainability committee.




                                                           39

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                             product responsibility
   this section of indicators contains information on how we measure customer satisfaction, improve the
                               customer experience and protect customer data.




cu stomer h ealt h & saf et y
g4-dma customer health and safety
the safety of our customers, employees and the public is our highest concern, and vectren maintains industry-leading
energy safety outreach and education programs which engage and educate the public, emergency-responders and
excavators.
we actively engage with educate contractors and municipalities on the importance of marking the underground
locations of natural gas pipeline and other utilities. additionally, we clarify safe digging laws and regulations and promote
contact with the state’s one-call contact center. permitting packets containing “811” and “call before you dig” materials
are distributed to city permitting offices, which provide the packets to individuals requesting work permits.
across our service territory, we invite local excavators, emergency responders, locators and vectren employees to
“safety days” featuring pipeline safety resources and opportunities to interact with local damage prevention specialists.
additionally, we host annual emergency responder group meetings to help ensure emergency responders are prepared to
respond to related incidents.
each fall, we offer the energy safe kids program to area fourth-grade classrooms across our service territory. this
program provides valuable electric and natural gas safety information, including demonstrations on how to detect a
natural gas leak and what to do if a natural gas leak is suspected.

g4-pr1 significant product categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement
health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement across all product and services.

g4-eu25 injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets
vectren does not disclose information that may relate to potential litigation.


prod u ct & s ervic e l ab el in g
g4-dma product and service labeling
our third party vendor follows casro code of standards and ethics for survey research, which has long been the
benchmark for the research industry. monthly phone surveys are conducted by our vendor to gauge customers' overall
perception of vectren and satisfaction with their recent experience. in 2016 our vendor conducted two studies,
perception and contact, speaking with approximately 6,000 customers. the perception survey is given to a random
sample of residential, commercial and key accounts, while the contact study is a transaction based survey used to rate
the customer experience for power outages, gas leaks and customer move ins.
additionally, our market research department conducts approximately 5,000 residential e-mail surveys annually to
identify specific areas of improvement within customer touch points (customer service, billing, communications, etc.).
residential customers are randomly selected to participate in this survey using known e-mail addresses.

g4-pr5 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction
vectren is committed to continuously improving the customer experience and 2016 was a successful year for vectren’s
improving customer experience (ice) initiatives, which included the replacement of vectren’s contact technology
systems. led by the vp of customer experience, the ice team meets regularly to discuss progress on projects aimed
at improving the customer experience. vectren continues to include ice initiatives in business plans throughout the
company.
we value customers' opinions and consistently seek feedback to help shape customer experience initiatives. customers
are offered opportunities throughout the year to give feedback about vectren and the services we provide through a
variety of channels.




                                                             40

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




internal research consists of both quantitative and qualitative feedback collected using several methods. monthly phone
surveys are conducted by a third party vendor to gauge customers' overall perception of vectren and satisfaction with
their recent experience. in 2016 80.4 percent of our customers reported being highly satisfied with vectren, which
was the highest rating vectren has ever received for this measure. additionally, 85.7 percent of customers were highly
satisfied with their recent service experience.
a quarterly online study is also conducted to identify specific areas of improvement within customer touch points
(customer service, billing, communications, etc.). regardless of survey method, customer comments are monitored to
identify breakdowns in specific processes and reported to managers throughout the company for follow-up.
in 2016, vectren also subscribed to independent research conducted by firms such as jd power and e source to track
year over year improvement and performance relative to other utilities.

g4-dma access to electricity and customer support
with a focused effort on keeping low-income customers safe, comfortable and secure, vectren embraces programs
and relationships which maximize federal, state and third-party financial support. we were the first utility in the united
states to have a certified bridges out of poverty trainer, which has allowed us to focus on the challenges faced by our
most vulnerable customers and how communities can collaborate to break the cycle.
vectren’s universal service program (usp) provides discounts of 15 to 32 percent to indiana customers receiving energy
assistance (liheap) whose household income is 150 percent of the federal poverty level ($36,375 for a family of four).
identified as a best practice, enrollment in usp is automatic when applying for energy assistance. an additional crisis/
hardship component is available to households up to 200 percent of the federal poverty level ($48,500 for a family of
four). vectren funds 30 percent of the total cost of the program. special payment arrangements are also available.
nearly 15,000 customers participated in the ohio regulated percentage of income payment plan plus program. this
program allows low-income customers to pay 6 percent of their income toward utility bills while providing a credit for
on-time payments.
as a result of continued collaboration with our agency partners, outreach representatives made 195 visits to 54 counties
served in 2016. assistance agencies recognize our agency website as the premiere tool to provide an efficient means to
obtain accurate information for assisting customers.
vectren established share the warmth, inc., as a private foundation to assist income-eligible households with energy
conservation measures to reduce their utility bills. due to growth, share the warmth was reclassified as a public charity
in 2014. each year, vectren matches all public donations up to $200,000. funds are distributed to indiana and ohio low
income weatherization assistance programs and combined with other funding for a whole house approach. since 2007,
more than $1,445,000 has been raised to weatherize 619 homes.

g4-eu27 residential disconnections for non-payment
time between disconnection of service and arrangement of payment
• less than 48 hours: 20,055 customers
• 48 hours to one week: 3,773
• one week to one month: 2,894
• one month to one year: 7,422
• more than one year: 8
time between arrangement of payment and reconnection of service
• less than 24 hours: 17,322 customers
• 24 hours to one week: 18,510
• more than one week: 70

g4-eu28 power outage frequency
in 2016, vectren recorded a system average interruption frequency index (saifi) of 0.82. the saifi score is calculated
by dividing the total number of customers interrupted by a power outage by the total number of customers served.




                                                            41

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




g4-eu29 average power outage duration
in 2016, vectren recorded a system average interruption duration index (sadi) score of 61.3. the saidi score is
calculated by dividing the number of "customer-minutes" (the product of the total number of customers interrupted by a
power outage and restoration time) by the total number of customers served.

g4-dma provision of information
vectren considers the needs of a diverse set of customers and stakeholders when determining important safety and
account information. annually, vectren provides customers with a complete brochure detailing their utility service. the
brochure includes information related to financial assistance programs, gas supplier options, billing/payment, electric
outage reporting, natural gas safety, gas piping and safe digging. the documents are available in both english and spanish
via our company website. throughout the year, vectren communicates via bill inserts and messages and online content
regarding gas and electric safety. in addition, each year we engage nearly 15,000 fourth-grade students in an energy
safe kids classroom program, which teaches natural gas and electricity safety. the program materials are available in
both english and spanish. an interactive demonstration of how a live electric line works is also available for students, the
community and emergency response training.
customer bills are available in both print and online versions. customers with special visual needs may request a
large-font printed bill. vectren’s contact center staffs both english and spanish-speaking representatives. through the
company’s low income programs team, vectren actively engages community organizations who help address customers’
financial needs. they provide information on safety, budget programs, energy efficiency, payment plans and other
available assistance options.


cu stomer p rivac y
g4-dma customer privacy
vectren understands the need to protect our customers' personally identifiable information and has implemented
a number of physical and cybersecurity controls to protect customer data. vectren also has documented response
procedures for data breaches that are reviewed and tested on a regular basis. to date, there have been no identified
instances of misuse, leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data.
vectren collects information from our users through several methods, including phone, website, email and letter in order
to understand how to better serve our customers. vectren is the sole owner of the information collected and will not
sell, share or rent this information to others, as disclosed in our privacy statement. the information will be used to access
customer services, respond to or communicate with customers, address issues, improve services, or forward to another
agency or entity for appropriate action.
we work with outside companies to process customer billing and payment. these companies do not retain, share, store,
or use personally identifiable information for any secondary purposes. in the event we partner with another party to
provide specific services, we will only share names and contact information of those users who sign up for these services.
these parties can only use personally identifiable information for the purpose of providing these specific services.

g4-pr8     substantiated customer privacy and data loss complaints
none




                                                             42

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




                                             gri g4 content index




 this report is ‘in accordance’ with the global reporting initiative (gri) g4 guidelines – core option. gri is a
 sustainability framework aimed at increasing transparency among businesses and organizations worldwide.




standar d d is c lo s ures
strategy & analysis
  id           indicator name                                                                                         page

  g4-1         statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization                                         2



organizational profile
  id           indicator name                                                                                         page

  g4-3         name of the organization                                                                                  2

  g4-4         primary products, services and divisions                                                                  2

  g4-5         headquarters                                                                                                  3

  g4-6         countries of operation                                                                                    3

  g4-7         ownership and legal form                                                                                  3

  g4-8         markets served                                                                                            3

  g4-9         scale of the reporting organization significant changes in scope and boundaries                           3

  g4-10        total workforce broken down by employees, supervised workers and gender                                   4

  g4-11        percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements                                       4

  g4-12        supply chain                                                                                              4

  g4-13        significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership or supply chain      5

  g4-14        precautionary approach                                                                                    5

  g4-15        external initiatives and endorsements                                                                     5

  g4-16        memberships in associations                                                                               5



identified material aspects & boundaries
  id           indicator name                                                                                         page

  g4-17        operational structure                                                                                     6

  g4-18        process for defining report content                                                                       6




                                                              43

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




identified material aspects & boundaries
  id             indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-19          material aspects identified in the process of defining report content                              6

  g4-20          aspect boundary within the organization                                                        7

  g4-21          aspect boundary outside of the organization                                                    7

  g4-22          restatements of information                                                                    8

  g4-23          significant changes in scope and boundaries                                                    8



stakeholder engagement
  id             indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-24          stakeholder groups                                                                             8

  g4-25          identification of stakeholders                                                                 8

  g4-26          approaches to engaging stakeholders                                                            8

  g4-27          response to stakeholder concerns                                                               9



report profile
  id             indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-28          reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided                         9

  g4-29          date of most recent previous report                                                            9

  g4-30          reporting cycle                                                                                9

  g4-31          contact point for questions                                                                    9

  g4-32          gri content index                                                                              9

  g4-33          external assurance                                                                             9



governance
  id             indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-34          governance structure                                                                          10

  g4-38          composition, mandate & responsibilities of board of directors                                 10

  g4-39          board chair                                                                                   11

  g4-41          board processes for resolving and avoiding conflicts of interest and disclosure practices     12



ethics & integrity
  id             indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-56          organizational values and code of conduct                                                     12

  g4-57          mechanisms for ethical consultation                                                           12

  g4-58          reporting ethical concerns and violations                                                     12




                                                                44

         about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
               human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




electric utility sector supplement (euss)
  id           indicator name                                                                                  page

  g4-eu1       installed capacity                                                                                13

  g4-eu2       net energy output                                                                                 13

  g4-eu3       number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts                 13

  g4-eu4       length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime          13

  g4-eu5       allocation of co2 emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework     14



economic
economic performance
  id             indicator name                                                                                page

  g4-dma         economic performance                                                                            15

  g4-ec1         direct economic value generated and distributed                                                 16

  g4-dma         indirect economic impacts                                                                       16

  g4-ec7         development and impact of infrastructure investments                                            17

  g4-dma         availability and reliability                                                                    18

  g4-eu10        planned capacity against projected electricity demand                                           18

  g4-dma         demand side management                                                                          18

  g4-dma         research and development                                                                        19

  g4-eu11        average generation efficiency of thermal plants                                                 20

  g4-eu12        transmission and distribution losses                                                            20



environm en tal
energy
  id             indicator name                                                                                page

  g4-dma         energy                                                                                          21

  g4-en6         energy efficiency initiatives                                                                   21

  g4-en8         water usage                                                                                     21

  g4-en10        water recycling and reuse                                                                       22

  g4-en21        air emissions                                                                                   22

  g4-en25        transported hazardous waste                                                                     22

  g4-en33        significant negative environmental impacts in the supply chain                                  22

  g4-en34        environmental grievances filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms      22




                                                            45

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




emissions
  id            indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-dma        emissions                                                                                     22

  g4-en15       direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions                                                         23



effluents & waste
  id            indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-dma        effluents and waste                                                                           23

  g4-en22       water discharge                                                                               24

  g4-en23       total weight of waste                                                                         24



environmental compliance
  id            indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-dma        environmental compliance                                                                      25

  g4-en29       fines and sanctions related to environmental laws and regulations                             25



environmental (overall)
  id            indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-dma        environmental                                                                                 25

  g4-en31       environmental protection expenditures and investments                                         25



labor prac t ic es
employment
  id            indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-dma        employment                                                                                    26

  g4-la1        new employee hires and employee turnover                                                      27

  g4-la2        benefits provided to full-time employees not provided to temporary or part-time employees     29

  g4-eu15       employees eligible for retirement                                                             29



occupational health & safety
  id            indicator name                                                                              page

  g4-dma        occupational health and safety                                                                29

  g4-la5        workforce representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees       30

  g4-la6        injuries, occupational diseases, absenteeism and work-related fatalities                      30

  g4-la8        health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions                       31




                                                            46

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




training & education
  id              indicator name                                                                         page

  g4-dma          training & education                                                                     31

  g4-la10         skills management and lifelong learning programs                                         32

  g4-la11         percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews     32



diversity & equal opportunity
  id              indicator name                                                                         page

  g4-dma          diversity and equal opportunity                                                          32

  g4-la12         composition and diversity of governance bodies and workforce                             33



hu man rig h ts
non-discrimination
  id              indicator name                                                                         page

  g4-dma          non-discrimination                                                                       35

  g4-hr3          incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken                                 35



societ y
local communities
  id              indicator name                                                                         page

  g4-dma          local communities                                                                        36

  g4-so1          operations with local community engagement, assessments and development programs         37

  g4-eu22         individuals physically or economically displaced and compensation                        37

  g4-dma          disaster/emergency planning and response                                                 37



anti-corruption
  id              indicator name                                                                         page

  g4-dma          anti-corruption                                                                          38

  g4-so4          anti-corruption training, communication, policies and procedures                         38



public policy
  id              indicator name                                                                         page

  g4-dma          public policy                                                                            38

  g4-so5          confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken                                      39

  g4-so6          political contributions                                                                  39




                                                              47

       about vectren | standard disclosures | economic | environmental | labor practices
             human rights | society | product responsibility | gri g4 content index




prod u ct res p o n s ib il it y
customer health & safety
  id            indicator name                                                                                    page

  g4-dma        customer health and safety                                                                          40

  g4-pr1        significant product categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement     40

  g4-eu25       injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets                                      40



product & service labeling
  id            indicator name                                                                                    page

  g4-dma        product and service labeling                                                                        40

  g4-pr5        results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction                                                  40

  g4-dma        access to electricity and customer support                                                          41

  g4-eu27       residential disconnections for non-payment                                                          41

  g4-eu28       power outage frequency                                                                              41

  g4-eu29       average power outage duration                                                                       42

  g4-dma        provision of information                                                                            42



customer privacy
  id            indicator name                                                                                    page

  g4-dma        customer privacy                                                                                    42

  g4-pr8        substantiated customer privacy and data loss complaints                                             42




                                                             48


one vectren square | evansville, in 47708 | www.vectren.com
