

corporate information
wema bank plc
head office: wema tower, 54, marina, p.m.b. 12862, lagos, nigeria
t. +234 1 277 8600 e. info@wemabank.com w. www.wemabank.com

purple connect (contact centre)
+234 0 7000 purple, +234 0 80 3900 3700 (calls only), +234 0 70 5111 2111 (sms & whatsapp only)
purpleconnect@wemabank.com (email), www.wemabank.com (live chat)

foreign correspondent banks
london, uk - standard chartered bank, union bank plc, bank of beirut, united national bank, access bank plc
new york, usa - standard chartered bank, united bank for africa (uba)
frankfurt, germany - bhf bank, commerzbank, deutsche bank ag

auditors
akintola williams delloite (chartered accountant)

table
of
contents
01
overview - 6
  about wema bank                                         7
  our corporate philosophy                                7
  financial highlights                                    8




02
s tat e m e n t s - 9
  corporate governance                                   10
  adherence to nigerian sustainable banking principles   22
  wema bank compliance framework                         26
  compliance training                                    27
  customer complaints management & feedback              31




03
reports - 34
  notice of the annual general meeting                   35

  chairman's statement                                   37

  directors' report                                      41

  board of directors                                     47

  management team                                        53

  statement of directors’ responsibilities               56

  report of the audit committee                          57

  independent auditor's report                           58

  report of the external consultants on                  63
  appraisal of the board of directors

table
of
contents contd.
04
financials - 64
  statement of profit/loss & other comprehensive income      65
  statement of financial position as at 31st december 2016   66
  statement of changes in equity                             67

  statement of prudential adjustments                        69

  statement of cash flows                                    70

  notes to the financial statement                           71

  statement of value added                                   165

  financial summary                                          166




05
kits - 168
  shareholder’s proxy form                                   169

  shareholder’s data update form                             171

  e-share notifier subscription form                         173

  branch network                                             175

  01
overview

about
wema bank

e
         stablished in 1945, wema bank is nigeria's longest surviving indigenous bank. wema bank offers a range of retail
         and sme banking, corporate banking, treasury, trade services and financial advisory to its numerous customers.
         in december 2015, the bank became a national bank, with a capital base of over ₦43.8 billion having met the
         regulatory requirements for the national banking license as stipulated by the central bank of nigeria.


operating a network of over 135 branches and service stations backed by a robust ict platform across nigeria, we are
committed to long-term sustainability in our business whilst maintaining the highest standards of social responsibility,
corporate governance and diversity in our operations.



our corporate philosophy
our vision


to be the financial institution of choice in service delivery and superior returns

our mission


to give every customer a delightful and memorable service experience

our core values


ÿ mutual respect
ÿ teamwork
ÿ innovation
ÿ performance -driven
ÿ professionalism




                                                                                         7    2016 annual report

about wema bank




financial highlights
gross earnings                         profit before tax




     n53.83bn            n45.79bn           n3.27bn          n2.99bn


               2016             2015                 2016            2015




total assets                           deposits




     n421bn              n397bn            n320.76bn        n284.98bn


               2016             2015                 2016            2015




loans (net)                            earnings per share




    n227.01bn            n185.6bn             6.7k            5.9k


               2016            2015                  2016            2015




8   2016 annual report

   02
statements

corporate governance
introduction

wema bank plc recognizes the critical importance of corporate governance in supporting the company's sustainable
growth, hence creating shareholders' value, and securing the trust and confidence of all shareholders and stakeholders
at large which includes customers, employees, government and the general public. the board remains committed to the
highest standards of corporate governance and strives to foster an environment which facilitates the implementation of
good corporate governance principles and practices.

in formulating our governance framework, we have taken into account the extant codes of corporate governance and
the international corporate governance best practices. in the year under review, the bank largely complied with the
provision of securities and exchange commission(sec) and central bank of nigeria(cbn) codes of corporate
governance.

the board of directors has formulated the company's governance policy with guidelines covering governance structure
including roles and duties of the board of directors and board committees. the board consequently ensures that the
bank adheres to the standards of corporate governance and holds strongly that such standards are critical to facilitate
efficiency and effective management in order to guarantee long term value for stakeholders.

governance structure

the board of directors

qualifications for directors

to serve as members of the board of directors, individuals must meet the following qualifications amongst others:

1. possess an unblemished record;
2. apply both vision and a broad business perspective;
3. exhibit good interpersonal skills, a sense of justice and an amenable personality;
4. apply effective communication skills;
5. demonstrate systematic business thinking and decision making; and
6. understand financial matters, commerce or industry, and show business management experience

composition of board of directors

the board has 12 members consisting of:
executive directors: 5
non-executive directors: 7
independent directors: 2 (derived from the 7 non-executive directors)
note: there were no changes to the board composition in the year under review.

responsibility

the board clearly defines the company's vision and strategies, covering marketing, management, human resources, finance
and budgeting in order to measure their performance against the key performance indicators and budget.

furthermore, operations are periodically audited by the internal audit team, whose report of significant findings are
scrutinized, and any corrective measures determined, under the close supervision of the audit committee and board of
directors.

separation of power

the roles of the chairman and the managing director/ceo are clearly separated and are not held by the same individual. the
chairman is solely responsible for the running of the board whilst the managing director/ceo in pari passu with the executive
management team is responsible for the day to day management of the bank's business and to ensure the implementation of
the board's decisions.




10 2016 annual report

                                                                                         corporate governance


appointment of directors

the company fully adopts the provisions laid down by the companies and allied matters act 2004 (cama) cap c20 laws of
federation regarding the appointment and qualification of directors, mode of voting on appointment, rotation of directors,
and removal of directors.

role of the board

the primary purpose of the board is to provide strategic direction for the bank in order to deliver long term
value to stakeholders.

other functions of the board include:

ÿ      to review and provide guidance for the bank's corporate and business strategy;
ÿ      to review management succession plan and determine their compensation;
ÿ      to ensure that the bank's operations are ethical and comply with applicable laws and regulations;
ÿ      to approve capital projects and investments;
ÿ      to consider and approve the annual budget of the bank, monitor its performance and ensure that the bank
       remains a going concern;
ÿ      to ensure that adequate systems of internal control, financial reporting and compliance are in place;
ÿ      to ensure that an effective risk management process exists and is sustained; and
ÿ      to constitute board committees and determine their terms of reference and procedures including
       reviewing and approving the reports of these committees.

board meetings

in compliance with the cbn code, the board meets quarterly and additional meetings are convened as the need arises.
in 2016, the board met five(5) times. the record of attendance is provided below:


    meetings held                            1         2               3                   4                  5


    names of directors              3 march 2016   5 may 2016     30 june 2016     29 september 2016   12 december 2016

    mr. adeyinka asekun

    segun oloketuyi

    ademola adebise

    moruf oseni*

    wole akinleye

    folake sanu

    mr. adebode adefioye

    mr. abubakar lawal

    mr. samuel durojaye

    ms. tina vukor-quarshie

    mrs. omobosola ojo

    mrs. abolanle matel-okoh



*moruf oseni was absent on health grounds.




                                                                                         11 2016 annual report

corporate governance

board committees

the board carries out its oversight functions through its four (4) standing committees in addition to the statutory audit
committee of the bank.

through these committees, the board is able to more effectively deal with complex and specialized issues and to fully
utilize its expertise to formulate strategies for the bank. these committees have their clearly defined terms of reference
setting out their roles, responsibilities, functions and reporting procedures to the board.

the board committees in operation during the period under review are:

ÿ      board risk & audit committee
ÿ      board credit committee
ÿ      board finance and general purpose committee
ÿ      board nomination & governance committee
ÿ      statutory audit committee

the roles and responsibilities of these committees are discussed below:

board risk & audit committee

the committee's major responsibilities are to:

ÿ      set policies on the bank's risk profile and limits;
ÿ      determine the adequacy and completeness of the bank's risk detection and measurement systems;
ÿ      assess the adequacy of risk mitigation;
ÿ      review and approve the contingency plan for specific risks and ensure that all units in the bank are fully aware of the
       risks involved in their function;
ÿ      review the bank's central liability report and summary of challenged loans with the concurrent power of
       recommending adequacy of the provisions for loan losses and possible charge offs.

the committee is comprised of the following members during the period under review:

1.      ms. tina vukor-quarshie - chairman
2.      segun oloketuyi - member
3.      folake sanu - member
4.      moruf oseni - member
5.      mr. abubakar lawal - member
6.      mr. samuel durojaye - member
7.      mrs. abolanle matel okoh - member
8.      mr. adebode adefioye - member

the committee meets quarterly, and additional meetings are convened as required. the committee met four (4)
times during the 2016 financial year.

committee meeting attendance

    meetings held                      1                        2                       3                        4


    names of directors          10 february 2016           14 june 2016          07 september 2016        28 november 2016


    ms. tina vukor-quarshie


    mr. abubakar lawal


    mr. samuel durojaye


    mr. adebode adefioye


    mrs. abolanle matel-okoh


    segun oloketuyi


    folake sanu


    moruf oseni




12 2016 annual report

                                                                                            corporate governance

board credit committee
this committee is made up of individuals who are knowledgeable in credit analysis. the committee discharges the
following responsibilities:

ÿ     consideration of loan applications above the limits delegated to the management credit committee or managing
      director as may be defined by the board from time to time;
ÿ     ensure that the bank's internal control procedures in the area of risk assets remain vibrant to safeguard the quality of
      the bank's risk assets;
ÿ     consider and approve credits that qualify as "large exposures" as defined by the board from time to time ;
ÿ     approve write offs in excess of management limits and within the limits as set by the board;
ÿ     approve credit guidelines for strategic plans and approving the bank's credit policy, which includes defining levels and
      limits of lending authority.

the committee comprised the following members during the period under review:

1.            mr. adebode adefioye - chairman
2.            ms. tina vukor-quarshie - member
3.            mr. samuel durojaye - member
4.            mr. abubakar lawal - member
5.            mrs. omobosola ojo - member
6.            segun oloketuyi - member
7.            ademola adebise - member
8.            wole akinleye - member
9.            folake sanu - member
10.           moruf oseni - member

the board credit committee meets at least once in each quarter. however, additional meetings are convened as required.
the committee met five (5) times during the 2016 financial year.

committee meeting attendance




    meetings held                      1                2                  3                   4                   5



    names                      11 february 2016   13 june 2016         26 july 2016     5 september 2016   29 november 2016


    mr. adebode adefioye



    ms. tina vukor -quarshie



    mr. abubakar lawal



    mr. samuel durojaye



    mrs omobosola ojo



    segun oloketuyi



    ademola adebise



    moruf oseni



    wole akinleye



    folake sanu




                                                                                            13 2016 annual report

corporate governance

nomination and governance committee

this committee was an initiative of the board in furtherance of its desire to comply with best practice in corporate
governance. the responsibilities of the committee include:

ÿ   overseeing the nomination, remuneration, performance management and succession planning processes of the
    board;
ÿ   monitoring compliance with and periodically reviewing corporate governance guidelines; and
ÿ   facilitating a process of engaging all directors in determining their specific needs and aligning their needs with their
    roles and responsibilities.

the committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors as follows:

1. mrs. omobosola ojo - chairman
2. mr. adebode adefioye - member
3. mr. samuel durojaye - member
4. ms tina vukor-quarshie - member
5. mrs. abolanle matel-okoh - member

the committee met five (5) times during the 2016 financial year.



committee meeting attendance




                                  9 february 2016    16 june 2016      8 september 2016   27 september 2016   1 december 2016




finance and general purpose committee

this committee handles all staff matters and is responsible for the oversight of strategic staff issues, employee retention,
equality and diversity as well as other significant employee relations matters and administrative issues.

other functions of this committee include:

ÿ   to define the strategic business focus and plans of the bank;
ÿ   to support management business development efforts; and
ÿ   to define capital expenditure limits and approve all capital expenditure on behalf of the board.

the committee comprised the following members during the period under review:

1. mr. abubakar lawal - chairman
2. mrs. omobosola ojo - member
4. mrs. abolanle matel-okoh - member
5. segun oloketuyi - member
6. ademola adebise - member
7. wole akinleye - member




14 2016 annual report

                                                                                          corporate governance


the board finance and general purpose committee meets at least once in each quarter. however, additional meetings are
convened as required. the committee met four (4) times during the 2016 financial year.

committee meeting attendance


 meetings held                       1                      2                        3                      4


 names of directors          12 february 2016         15 june 2016            6 september 2016        30 november 2016



 mr. abubakar lawal



 mrs. omobosola ojo


 mrs. abolanle matel -

 okoh


 segun oloketuyi



 ademola adebise



 wole akinleye




statutory audit committee of the bank

this committee was established in compliance with section 359(3) of the companies and allied matters act of nigeria
(cama). the committee is made up of three (3) non-executive directors and three (3) shareholders of the bank elected at
annual general meetings. the bank's company secretary/legal adviser serves as the secretary to the committee, while
one of the shareholders serves as the chairman of the committee.

the committee is responsible for:

ÿ ascertaining whether the accounting and reporting policies of the bank are in accordance with the legal requirements
    and agreed ethical practices;
ÿ reviewing the scope and plan of audit requirements;
ÿ reviewing the findings on management matters as reported by the external auditors and departmental responses
    thereon;
ÿ reviewing the effectiveness of the bank's system of accounting and internal control;
ÿ making recommendations to the board as regards the appointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor
    of the bank;
ÿ authorizing the internal auditor to carry out investigations into any activities of the bank which may be of interest or
    concern to the committee;
ÿ reviewing the bank's annual and interim financial statements, including reviewing the effectiveness of the bank's
    disclosure, controls and systems of internal control, the integrity of the bank's financial reporting and the
    independence and objectivity of the external auditors.

the committee comprised the following members during the period under review:

1. prince adekunle olodun (shareholders’ representative) - chairman
2. mr. joe anosike ogbonna (shareholders’ representative) - member
3. mr. kashimawo akanji taiwo (shareholders’ representative) - member
4. mr. abubakar lawal - member
5. mr. adebode adefioye - member
6. mr. samuel durojaye -member

the statutory audit committee meets at least once in each quarter. however, additional meetings are convened as
required. the committee met four (4) times during the 2016 financial year.




                                                                                          15 2016 annual report

corporate governance


committee meeting attendance


 meetings held                            1                      2                      3                         4



 names of members                  26 february 2016          17 june 2016         9 september 2016          28 october 2016



 prince adekunle olodun



 mr. joe anosike ogbonna


 mr kashimawo akanji

 taiwo


 mr. abubakar lawal



 mr. adebode adefioye



 mr. samuel durojaye




tenure of directors

in pursuance of the bank's drive to continually imbibe best corporate governance practices, directors are appointed for a
maximum period of three terms of four (4) years each.
thus, the maximum tenure of a director is twelve (12) years and subject to retirement age of seventy (70) years, statutory
provisions and directives.

board evaluation

in compliance with the requirements of the central bank of nigeria (cbn) code of corporate governance, kpmg advisory
services was engaged to carry out a board evaluation for the financial year ended 31 december 2016. the evaluation was
based primarily on benchmarking the performance of the board of directors with the requirements of the cbn code using
five key corporate governance considerations:

1.   board operations - the board's ability to manage its own activities
2.   strategy - the board's role in the strategy process
3.   corporate culture - the board's role in overseeing the achievement of ethical behaviour in the organization
4.   monitoring and evaluation - the board's role in monitoring management and evaluating its performance against
     defined goals.
5.   stewardship - the board's responsibility towards shareholders and other stakeholders and accountability for their
     interests.

the independent advisory firm adjudged the performance of the board and stated that the board's compliance culture to
corporate governance is positive and largely consistent with the standards contained in the cbn and sec code of
corporate governance.

director's nomination process

the nomination and governance committee is charged with the responsibility of identifying and nominating suitable
candidates for the approval of the board. the committee takes into consideration the balance of skills and experience on
the board during a proposed appointment.

the appointment of a director is subject to the approval of central bank of nigeria and the shareholders.

induction and continuous training

on appointment to the board and board committees, all directors receive formal orientation and training programmes to
enable the directors familiarise themselves with the bank's operations, environment, senior management etc. this is done
through induction courses organized by the company secretary.
also, the bank has institutionalized regular training of board members and senior management on issues pertaining to




16 2016 annual report

                                                                                           corporate governance


their oversight functions in order to update their skills and knowledge on new developments in the industry.

the company secretary
the board of directors appointed a company secretary to take responsibility as set forth by law. the company secretary
reports functionally to the chairperson of the board of directors and operationally to the managing director.

the company secretary performs the following roles amongst others:

1.    act as a consultant and secretary of board of directors and other committees;
2.    act as corporate governance and compliance officer;
3.    act as a corporate communication officer by being the center of communication among the company's directors,
      management and stakeholders;
4.    act as a controller of management functions in following up on all the resolutions of board of director into practice;
5.    act as a coordinator with regulatory bodies;
6.    manage the board of directors' meeting and board committee meetings; and
7.    administers the shareholders' meeting in line with the legal framework.

management committees

the committees comprises of senior management of the bank. these committees are risk driven as they are set up to
identify, analyze, synthesize and make recommendations on risks arising from day to day activities of the bank.

these committees also ensure that risk limits as contained in the board and regulatory policies are complied with at all
times. in addition, they provide inputs for the respective board committees of the bank and ensure that recommendations
of the board committees are effectively and efficiently implemented.

they frequently meet as the risk issues occur to immediately take action and decisions within confines of their limits.

the following are the standing management committees in the bank:

ÿ    executive committee
ÿ    management credit committee
ÿ    watchlist committee
ÿ    assets and liability committee
ÿ    management risk & audit committee
ÿ    it steering committee

executive committee

the purpose of the committee is to deliberate and take policy decisions on the effective and efficient management of the
bank.

the responsibility of the committee includes:

ÿ review the strategic operations of the bank:

       (i) review audit & inspection reports
       (ii) review of branch coordination functions in branches
       (iii) review adequacy and sufficiency of branch tools
       (iv) review manning level in branches and head office departments

ÿ consideration and approval of proposed new branches;
ÿ review the asset and liability profile of the bank;
ÿ    consideration of staff related issues
ÿ consideration and approval of capital and recurrent expenses;
ÿ review the activities of the subsidiaries and associated companies; and
ÿ monitor and give strategic direction on regulatory issues.




                                                                                            17 2016 annual report

corporate governance


the committee comprises of the md/ceo, all executive directors, the company secretary/legal adviser and any other
member as may be appointed from time to time. the committee meets fortnightly to effect the above.

management credit committee

this committee is responsible for ensuring that the bank is in total compliance with the credit policy manual as approved
by the board of directors. other functions include:

ÿ provides inputs for the board credit committee;
ÿ reviews and approves credit facilities to individual obligors not exceeding an aggregate sum as determined by the
    board of the bank from time to time;
ÿ responsible for reviewing and approving all credits that are above the approval limit of the managing director/ceo as
    determined by the board of directors;
ÿ reviews the entire credit portfolio of the bank and conducts periodic checks of the quality of risk assets in the bank; and
ÿ ensures adequate monitoring of credits is carried out.

the committee meets monthly depending on the number of credit application to be appraised and considered. the
secretary to the committee is head of credit risk department of the bank.

the committee comprises of the md/ceo, all executive directors, the company secretary/legal adviser and any other
member as may be appointed from time to time. the committee meets fortnightly to effect the above.

watch list committee

the purpose of this committee is to assess the risk asset portfolio of the bank. other functions include:

ÿ it highlights the status of the bank's assets in line with the internal and external regulatory framework;
ÿ takes actions appropriately in respect of delinquent assets;
ÿ ensures that adequate provisions are taken in line with the regulatory guidelines.

membership of the committee includes managing director, executive directors, head of enterprise risk management,
head of remedial assets management and other relevant senior management staff of the bank. the secretary to the
committee is head of credit monitoring unit.

assets and liability committee

this is a committee that shoulders responsibility for the management of a variety of risks arising from the bank's business
which includes:

ÿ   market and liquidity risk management;
ÿ   loan to deposit ratio analysis;
ÿ   cost of funds analysis;
ÿ   establishing guidelines for pricing on deposit and credit facilities;
ÿ   exchange rate risks analysis;
ÿ   regulatory considerations and monitoring of the status of implemented assets and liability strategies.

membership of the committee includes, the managing director/ceo, executive directors, treasurer, chief financial
officer and chief risk officer together with relevant senior management staff.

management risk committee

in line with global best practice and the code of corporate governance, the committee was constituted to amongst other
things:

ÿ review the effectiveness of the bank's overall risk management strategy at the enterprise level;
ÿ identify and evaluate new strategic risks and agree on suitable mitigating factors;
ÿ review the enterprise risk scorecard and determine the risk to be reported to the board on a quarterly basis.

membership of the committee includes md/ceo, executive directors, chief risk officer, head of risk management
department, chief inspector, head, internal audit, chief compliance officer, head of bank-wide operations, chief
information security officer and representatives of operations, it and legal.




18 2016 annual report

                                                                                            corporate governance


it steering committee
in many organizations, information technology (it) has become crucial in the support, sustainability and growth of the
business. the pervasive use of technology has created a critical dependency on it that calls for a specific focus on it
governance.

this committee's responsibilities are as follows:

ÿ   oversees the development and maintenance of the it strategic plan;
ÿ   approve vendors used by the organization and monitors their financial condition;
ÿ   approve and monitor major projects, it budgets, priorities, standards, procedures, and overall it performance;
ÿ   coordinates priorities between the it department and use departments;
ÿ   review the adequacy and allocation of it resources in terms of funding, personnel, equipment, and service levels;
ÿ   provide use and business perspective to it investments, priorities and utilization;
ÿ   monitor the implementation of the various initiatives and ensure that deliverables and expected outcomes/business
    value are realized;

ÿ ensure increased utilization of technology and that the bank gets adequate returns on all it investments;
ÿ make recommendations and/or decisions in the best interests of the bank, following review by it department, on such
    items as desktops, equipment and service standards, and networking requirements, including benchmarks;
ÿ evaluate progress toward the established goals and present a report to exco as at when necessary; and
ÿ act in a supervisory capacity, in implementing the bank's it strategy.

monitoring compliance with corporate governance

the chief compliance officer of the bank monitors compliance with money laundering requirements and the
implementation of the cbn code of corporate governance.
the bank forwards returns on a monthly basis to the central bank of nigeria on all whistle-blowing reports and corporate
governance breaches.

whistle blowing procedures

in compliance with the cbn mandate on whistle blowing and in line with the bank's commitment to instill the best
corporate governance practices, it has established a whistle blowing procedure that guarantees anonymity.
the bank has a dedicated e-mail address for whistle blowing procedures and the whistleblowing policy is permanently
available on the bank's intranet.

there is a direct link on the bank's intranet for dissemination of information, to enable members of staff report all identified
breaches of the bank's code of corporate governance.

code of professional conduct for employees and directors

the bank has an internal code of professional conduct for staff and directors which is strictly adhered to upon assumption
of duties.

shareholders

the annual general meeting of the bank is the highest decision making body. the general meetings are duly convened and
held in line with existing statutory provisions in a transparent and fair manner.

shareholders are opportuned to express their opinions on the bank's financials and other issues affecting the bank. the
attendees of the meetings are regulators such as central bank of nigeria, securities & exchange commission, the nigerian
stock exchange, corporate affairs commission; minority shareholders and representatives of shareholders' association.

the board places considerable importance on effective communication with shareholders on developments in the bank. in
this regard, the bank has established an investors relations unit which deals directly with enquiries from shareholders and
investors to promote and deepen shareholders' access to information and enhance effective communication with
shareholders.

protection of shareholders' rights

the board ensures the protection of the statutory and general rights of shareholders at all times, particularly voting right




                                                                                             19 2016 annual report

corporate governance


at general meetings of the bank. all are treated equally, regardless of volume of shareholding or social status.

shareholders’ complaint management policy

the bank has developed a complaint management policy for shareholders to foster an efficient and timely resolution of
shareholder's complaint.

the policy can be accessed through the bank's website.

insider trading

the bank has an insider trading policy which prohibits directors, staff and their related persons in possession of
confidential price sensitive information from dealing with the securities of the bank during the close period.
note: in the year under review, there was no infraction of this policy.

succession plan

the nomination and governance committee has been assigned by the board to be responsible for the bank's succession
plan, especially to ensure that the company has an appropriate succession plan in place for the positions of the ceo, md
and other senior executives, and to make recommendations to the board for approval. nomination for appropriate
leaders has been recognized as a priority by the board in order to strengthen the company's management and ensure
continued progress.




20 2016 annual report

                     with you. all the way.
2016 annual report

adherence to the
nigerian sustainable
banking principles
our commitment to the nigerian sustainable banking principles

the nigerian sustainable banking principles are a set of nine principles adopted by all nigerian banking institutions as well
as some other non-banking financial institutions. the principles provide a framework for integrating sustainability into the
activities and operations of the bank. the principles include an overarching set of guidelines relating to the bank's direct
and indirect impact on communities and the environment as a result of their business operations.



 our business             integrate environmental and social        in line with the principle, we will ensure high level of
 activities:              considerations into decision-making       compliance in the integration of esrm into all projects.
 environmental and        processes relating to business
 social risk              activities to avoid, minimize or offset
                                                                    increase reporting content to include the percentage of
 management               negative impacts.
                                                                    clients and portfolio screened in e&s risk; and e&s rating
                                                                    improvements during the review period.


 our business             avoid, minimize or oﬀset the              attain significant reduction in paper operations by
 operations:              negative impacts of business              converting paper-based transactions into digital formats.
 environmental and        operations on the environment and
 social footprint         local commun ities in which it
                          operates and where possible,
                          promote positive impact.


 human rights             respect human rights in its business      continuous assessment of client projects for human
                          operations                                right risks.


                                                                    ensure training of credit oﬃcers, business teams and
                                                                    sustainability champions on human rights to ensure
                                                                    seamless bank wide implementation.
                                                                                   -




 women's economic         promote women's economic                  establish a dedicated committee for women
 empowerment              empowerment through gender                empowerment across the bank in order to drive the
                          inclusive workplace culture in our        vision of this principle.
                          business operations and seek to
                          provide products and services
                                                                    commence investments made on women empowerment
                          designed speciﬁcally for women
                                                                    initiatives for female clients i.e. those subscribed to
                          through our business activities.
                                                                    wema women account.


                                                                    constantly evolve ways to ensure gender sensitivity in
                                                                    order to increase the upward mobility of female
                                                                    employees into management functions and positions
                                                                    across the bank




22 2016 annual report

                                      adherence to the nigerian sustainable banking principles


    principles             conditions                               indicators
    financial inclusion    promote ﬁnancial inclusion, seeking      full implementation of a ﬁnancial literacy framework, as
                           to provide ﬁnancial services to          well as the promotion of inclusion through ﬁnancial
                           individuals and communities that         literacy curricula in educational institutions, in line with
                           traditionally have had limited or no     the 2020 target of the cbn.
                           access to the formal ﬁnancial sector

                                                                    innovate and constantly improve on products and
                                                                    services tailored to the middle and low-income as well as
                                                                    disadvantaged groups.


    e & s governance       implement robust and transparent         appoint sustainability champions in all branch and
                           environmental and social                 regional champions’ network to work with the
                           governance practices in its              sustainability management and board committees. this
                           respective institutions and assess       will deepen nsbp reporting from speciﬁc units and
                           environmental and social                 department.
                           governance practices of its
                           customers.


    capacity building      develop individual institution and       strengthen sustainability governance by appointing
                           sector capacity necessary to identify,   regional sustainability champions to oversee regional
                           assess and manage the                    operations bank-wide.
                           environmental and social risks and
                           opportunities associated with our
                                                                    achieve training coverage of all credit oﬃcers,
                           business activities and business
                                                                    sustainable champions and nsbp relevant departments
                           operations.
                                                                    on nsbp through learning modules, regional workshops.


                                                                    annual sustainability training sessions at board retreats
                                                                    and quarterly sessions for executive management.


    collaborative          collaborate across the sector and        support sector-wide initiatives led by third party
    partnerships           leverage international partnerships      organisations, regulators and other stakeholders.
                           to accelerate its collective progress
                           and move the sector as one,
                           ensuring our approach is consistent
                           with international standards and
                           nigerian development needs.
    reporting              regularly review and report on our       produce a multi-compliant reporting system which allows
                           progress in meeting these principles     for comprehensive materiality checks for major
                           at the individual institution and        international conventions. unep-fi, gri g4.
                           sector level.



sustainability approach

our sustainability approach involves providing for our current needs without putting in jeopardy our future requirements
for the achievement of our hope and dreams. it seeks to ensure an encompassing and constructive effect on our domicile
communities, coupling profitable exploits with people and planet-friendly initiatives. it is about creating long-term
stakeholder value by adopting the opportunities and managing the associated environmental, social and governance
risks.

the sustainability strategy is designed to deliver value in a structured way along four key areas:

ÿ      conservational continuity
       we are committed to minimizing and where possible, averting the ecological impacts that could occur as a result of
       our lending activities.

ÿ      community involvement
       we participate by giving of our time and resources in order to supplement the resources in the communities in which




                                                                                              23 2016 annual report

adherence to the nigerian sustainable banking principles


     we do our business.

ÿ    driving innovation
     we are constantly seeking ways of providing products and services to meet the needs of our customers while ensuring
     that we manage our communal, cultural and governance impacts, thus contributing to sustainable growth and
     development.

ÿ   supporting aspirations
     we empower our people to be the best that they can be, by providing opportunities and a supportive environment and
     culture for personal development.

sustainability governance

      our sustainability governance structure directs our approach to conducting business, and is premised on high
      ethical standards and strict adherence to all provisions of the code of conduct guidelines. our executive management
      provides oversight for our sustainability implementation. the sustainability committee, working with the
      sustainability champions, scrutinizes sustainability performance through periodic sustainability performance
      evaluation exercises.

      tactical and operational implementation of sustainability is carried out through the priority area champion
      framework across the bank. this model is reflective of our approach to sustainability which transcends being
      function-based and is continuously being integrated as a business strategy and implemented across the bank in all
      our operations.

environmental and social risk management (esrm) approach

      our environmental and social risk management strategy aims to achieve responsible financing. this approach
      guides the bank in its business of providing lending facilities to clients who carefully consider the environmental &
      social impacts of their activities. the bank's environmental & social risk management policy is applied to all financial
      services offered by the bank.

      esrms implementation requires qualified staff with an understanding of environmental and social impact risk
      management and as part of our commitment to sustainability, we focus on raising the awareness of environmental
      and social risk issues by training employees which aids decision making in credit assessment.

financial inclusion

      a 2014 efina report states that 39.5% of our adult population, which implies 36.9milliion adults, are financially
      excluded. only 33.9million adults are banked, representing 36.3% of adult population.

      wema bank is committed to providing and deepening access to financial services to unbanked and underbanked
      customers. this, we achieve by developing products and services that cater to the financial requirements of the
      financially excluded.

easysavers account
wema bank, in partnership with etisalat launched the wema easysavers account in november 2016. wema easysavers
account is a financial product directed at the subscribers of etisalat network. the target market are active users of the
etisalat network, who also are situated in close proximity to our branches. the advantage of the scheme is that it provides
banking services to account holders straight from their mobile phones. they do not require data or wi-fi enabled devices.
any mobile device can get access to the service. this is in line with central bank of nigeria's plan for financial inclusion.




launch of wema easysavers



24 2016 annual report

                                      adherence to the nigerian sustainable banking principles



easylife account

easylife is an innovative approach to opening a simple savings account developed to cater to the simple banking needs of
low-income individuals, such as artisans, who have little or no access to formal financial services. this account provides the
security of a bank with the convenience of the bank located right next to the customer. this product enables the gradual
integration of previously unbanked individuals into the culture of banking. an easylife account can be opened using the
account opening documentation or using the *945# shortcode.

the easylife account reduces the barriers that had previously barred some individuals from gaining access to banking
services.

financial literacy programme

wema bank regularly embarks on campus storms, in a bid to introduce financial education and products to students in
secondary schools and higher educational institutions. in 2016, staff were involved in delivering financial literacy content to
selected secondary schools, from across the geo-political regions of the country, using specially developed curriculum
materials developed by junior achievement of nigeria (jan).




world savings day                                  royal kiddies educational award        financial literacy




                                                                                             25 2016 annual report

wema bank
compliance framework
wema bank compliance framework

compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss, or loss of reputation a bank may suffer as a result
of its failure to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, self-regulatory organisation codes of conduct and standards of
good practice applicable to its banking activities.

compliance environment

in wema bank, the development, implementation and continuous monitoring of compliance framework, which covers
aml/cft, compliance with regulatory directives and internal policies, and also ensuring resolution of exceptions arising
from audit reports on branches and strategic business units (sbus) has yielded good footing due to the following:

ÿ   a board of directors that is actively concerned with sound corporate governance and diligently discharges its
    responsibilities to ensure that the bank is appropriately and effectively managed and controlled;
ÿ   a management that actively manages and operates the bank in a sound and prudent manner;
ÿ   organizational and procedural controls, supported by an effective management information system, to manage the
    bank's exposure to compliance risk;
ÿ   an independent audit mechanism to monitor the effectiveness of the bank's compliance programme.

board and management responsibilities

the overall responsibility of establishing broad business strategy, significant policies and understanding significant risks of
the bank rests with the board of directors. in wema bank, through the establishment of board risk and audit committee
(brac), the board of directors monitors the effectiveness of aml/cft programme and compliance to regulatory directives
and internal policies.

the internal as well as external audit reports are sent to the board through the bank's management and they ensure that
management takes timely and necessary actions in implementing the recommendations. wema bank board carries out
periodic review meeting with the senior management through these relevant committees to discuss the effectiveness of all
the risk areas – compliance risk inclusive.

the bank's management sets out a strong compliance culture within the bank. with governance & guidance from the
board of directors, the executive committee (exco) puts in place approved policies and procedures to identify, measure,
monitor and control risks. the bank has a compliance structure, which assigns clear responsibility, authority and reporting
relationships among functional areas. the management through its monthly management risk committee (mrc),
monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance functions based on the bank's established policies &
procedures.

the chief executive officer and chief finance officer regularly attest to our returns to security and exchange commission
(sec), central bank of nigeria (cbn), the nigerian financial intelligence unit (nfiu) and other regulatory bodies.

reports to senior management and the board of directors

compliance issues and challenges are discussed at the board and management risk committee meetings as detailed
below:

ÿ   management risk committee - monthly
ÿ   board risk and audit committee – quarterly

critical emerging issues requiring immediate attention prior to the aforementioned meetings are communicated to
management and board.




26 2016 annual report

                                                                                             compliance training


customer due diligence (cdd)
wema bank ensures that due diligence (dd) and proper know your customer (kyc) principles are carried out on
prospective customers. all parties to a business are properly identified before relationships are established.

obtaining and verification of proof of identity (name and address) are carried out using reliable and independent sources.
the bank ensures that the true owners or promoters are adequately identified.

in wema bank, the level of kyc carried out on customers is determined by the level of risk associated with the customer. as
such, high risk customers attract enhanced due diligence (edd).

preservation of customers' records

in line with applicable laws and regulations, wema bank keeps all documents and transaction records of customers in the
course of business relationship and for a minimum period of five (5) years after the severance of business relationship with
the bank.

politically exposed persons (peps)

in line with regulatory requirements, wema bank classifies politically exposed persons (peps) as high risk customers.
senior management approval is therefore required before such accounts are opened.
due to the peculiarity of the transactions of peps, all pep accounts are subjected to a continuous account monitoring
process. this is to mitigate money laundering, terrorist financing and strict adherence to regulatory policies and fatf
recommendations on the management of pep accounts.


compliance training
(aml/cft & compliance to internal policies)
considering the role of employees, management and board of directors in the fight against money laundering and
terrorist financing and to ensure compliance to internal policies, trainings covering these areas are conducted on a regular
basis for all members of staff, senior management and board of directors.

additional training is conducted through the bank's intranet, nuggets and during the weekly knowledge sharing sessions
(kss).

all employees are periodically assessed to test their compliance knowledge.

transaction monitoring
in wema bank, transaction monitoring is a continuous process. this is conducted or carried out daily for effective and
timely reporting.

having known and documented transaction pattern of customers, variation from the documented pattern of customers'
transactions are termed "unusual transactions". these transactions are subjected to further scrutiny with the aim of
determining if they are suspicious., formal reports are forwarded to the nigerian financial intelligence unit (nfiu).

transaction reporting
in line with applicable laws and regulations, certain returns and reports are made to the regulatory bodies. presently, in
nigeria, the nigerian financial intelligence unit (nfiu) is the regulatory agency saddled with the responsibility for the
receipt of the following transaction related reports:

ÿ   currency transaction report (ctr)
ÿ   suspicious transaction report (str)

the foreign transaction report (ftr) is forwarded to both nfiu and the central bank of nigeria (cbn).

the above returns are rendered in line with sections 2, 6 and 10 of the money laundering (prohibition) act, 2011 as
amended in 2012.

ÿ   section 2 of the act mandates financial institutions to report all international transfers of funds and security of sum
    exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000) or its equivalent in other foreign currencies.




                                                                                          27 2016 annual report

compliance training


ÿ   section 6 provides that all financial institutions must submit a report on all unusual and suspicious transactions.
ÿ   section 10 requires all financial institutions to render returns on lodgments or transfers of funds of n5million and
    above for individuals and n10million and above for corporate customers.

returns are also rendered to other regulatory bodies in adherence to regulatory directives geared towards compliance
with internal policies.

whistle blowing/employees' responsibilities

all employees are responsible for complying with the bank's policy on whistle blowing. an employee having information
concerning any prohibited or unlawful act promptly reports such matter to the chief inspector, chief compliance officer
and legal adviser of the bank.

while this is the preferred reporting procedure, employees are also free to report to their line supervisors, any officer in
compliance, internal control, audit & inspection, risk management, strategic management, or the chief financial officer,
where necessary. it could also be appropriate to contact the management risk committee through its chairman or
secretary.

there are no reprisals for reporting such information and employees are advised to be thorough in doing this as
unsubstantiated accusations can damage reputations unfairly. therefore, employees are expected to act responsibly in
reporting suspected violations.

a dedicated email address and telephone numbers are available for this reporting.

risk recognition and assessment

the bank continually recognizes and assesses all of the material risks that could adversely affect the achievement of the
bank's goals and business prospect. we identify and consider both internal and external factors.

the risk assessment by the bank focuses more on the review of business strategies developed to maximize the risk/reward
trade-off within the different areas of the bank. this assessment is based on compliance with regulatory requirements,
social, ethical and environmental risks that affect the banking industry.

management of blacklisted individuals and entities
sequel to the september 11, 2001 attack and the resultant review conducted by financial action task force (fatf) on non-
cooperative countries and territories (ncct), some jurisdictions were found to lack effective aml/cft programme. these
and other individuals and entities of questionable reputation are restrained from banking activities.

the list of blacklisted individuals and entities are obtained from the following:

ÿ   the office of foreign assets control (ofac)
ÿ   the united nations (un)
ÿ   european union (eu)
ÿ   local list

in wema bank, all members of staff, as it relates to their respective functions, are required to ensure all cross border
transactions with the bank are screened against the watch list to check for possible matches. where there is a possible
match, employees are mandated to stop the transaction and follow the procedure for escalation.

this screening is done at the point of on-boarding new customers and when conducting cross border transactions.
role of external and internal auditors in evaluating aml/cft & compliance to internal policies.

external auditors, by dint of their independence of the management of the bank, provides unbiased recommendations on
the strength and weakness of the aml/cft and internal compliance programme of the bank. they examine the records,
transactions of the bank and evaluate its accounting policy, disclosure policy and methods of financial estimation made by
the bank.

the internal audit functions, as part of the monitoring of aml/cft programme and compliance to internal policies, reports
directly to the board of directors, or its audit committee, with a line reporting to the md/ceo. this allows the board and
management have an independent overview on the overall compliance programme of the bank. all identified exceptions
are promptly attended to for effective resolution.




28 2016 annual report

                                                                                          compliance training



the compliance department ensures the review of inspection reports of branches and strategic business units (sbus) with
a view to creating remediation and thus preventing the recurrence of these exceptions. these remediation/status reports
are submitted to the md/ceo and board audit committee.

conclusion

the wema bank's compliance framework covers all aspects of her activities to ensure internal and regulatory compliance.
the policy, being a guide to how the bank conducts her businesses, ensures the mitigation of money laundering, terrorist
financing, regulatory (internal & external) and compliance risks.




                                                                                       29 2016 annual report

                     with you. all the way.
2016 annual report

customer complaints
management and feedback
introduction

the financial year 2016 was particularly noteworthy for the bank in the area of service. the bank kicked off the year 2016
with the charge to "sustain the momentum".

the year kicked off with an internal recognition of staff who had excelled in service and ideas implementation functions.
this recognition was also on the basis of their performance in line with the guiding principle of all staff (purple rules) and
our service charter towards our customers.

to foster communication and engagement between the bank and our esteemed customers, the infomercials within
branches was launched across all our branches. this was to ensure that while waiting to be served, customers are
continuously enlightened about developments within the bank, particularly in the areas of products and service offerings.

in fulfilment of our promise of convenient & inclusive banking with a memorable service experience, the bank launched her
personalized ussd banking service of *945# which was kicked off with an enlightenment and participatory game show
broadcasted via our social media platforms. customers who participated were rewarded with winnings and further
encouraged to continually experience delightful service via our ussd banking.

a milestone service improvement was recorded as report from the kpmg banking industry customer satisfaction survey
(bicss) revealed that our customer's perception of our service rating amongst other competitors moved up 4 places from
the service position of the previous report. this further solidifies our improved financial and service performance and the
call for momentum sustenance.

it is important to emphasize that the bank received no sanction on any complaint or any report rendition deadlines, rather
the bank continued to participate actively and support the cbn's consumer complaints management system (ccms) by
timely rendition of required information.

the statistics for the total number of complaints received in this financial year 2016 showed an increase when compared to
the statistics in fy 2015. this however implies that our customers' confidence in our responsiveness has increased thus,
having them reach out to us for support rather than taking their business elsewhere. it is worthy of note that the bank
perfected the toll free communication lines strategy within all our branches with the purpose of reducing service time and
straight through access for first call resolution support via our 24 hours' interactive contact center (purple connect).

dispense error complaints, however, continued to be a primary source of customer complaints especially when complaint
root cause was as a result of our customers using other banks’ atms for intended cash withdrawals. the bank however,
displayed its commitment to customer complaint resolution by ensuring that a decentralization of resolution channel
improves continually and increased liaison with other banks for speedy resolution.

the bank also reinvigorated its internet banking services with new look/feel, increased functionalities for better service
experience and additional security to eliminate the increasing fraud experienced globally. the physical token attached to
every customer subscribed to our online banking channel has still recorded no fraud and this was also applied to our
wema mobile application.

the bank also ensured features and benefits of products and services , fraud alerts etc. publications were sent regularly to
keep our customers informed on how to manage, protect and secure their accounts, transactions and card details whilst
keeping them updated on new and/or improved products or services.

our purple connect (contact centre) continues to operate a 24 hours, 7 days a week service, enabling our customers reach
the bank at their convenience, any time of the day, any day of the week.




                                                                                           31 2016 annual report

customer complaints management and feedback


the bank can be contacted through any of her channels         our resolution structure
stated below.
                                                              the process flow for customer complaint resolution is as
        telephone:                                            follows:
        0-7000 purple, 08039003700, 01-2777700
                                                              ÿ            complaints are received through all our available service
        email:                                                             channels (telephone, electronic mail, sms, whatsapp,
        purpleconnect@wemabank.com                                         live chats, letters/visits to the branches/head office,
                                                                           social media)
        sms & whatsapp:                                       ÿ            received complaints are acknowledged within 24 hours
        07051112111                                                        of receipt
                                                              ÿ            the complaint is resolved immediately or escalated to
        live chat:                                                         the appropriate unit for resolution
        www.wemabank.com                                      ÿ            an update is given within 48 hours of receipt and regular
                                                                           feedback on the resolution status of the received
        fraud desk:                                                        complaints is given to the customer subsequently
        +234-1-2779836;                                       ÿ            the complaint is closed upon satisfactory resolution of
        frauddesk@wemabank.com                                             the issue raised
                                                              ÿ            periodic reports on all customer complaints and
        letters:                                                           feedback received in the bank are collated, grouped
        customer protection unit                                           based on type/frequency, analyzed to determine the root
        wema bank plc                                                      cause(s) and circulated to our management team and
                                                                           other relevant departments to prevent recurrences.




social media:

   facebook.com/wemabankplc            youtube.com/wematube                        instagram.com/wemabank

   twitter.com/wemabank            google+.com/wemabank



the year 2016; 53,561 complaints were received in addition to 3,711 that was brought forward from 2015 and 54,422 were
resolved leaving a total of 2,850 pending complaints as at 31 december 2016.

table 1 below shows the details of complaints received in fy 2016 on a month-by-month basis:


 month            total no.     total no.   total no. of   complaints received & resolved - month by month (2016)
                         of            of   complaints
                complaints    complaints     forwarded
                  received      resolved         to cbn    7000

 january              2,939         2,927            nil
 february             3,460         3,431            nil   6000

 march                3,692         3,665            nil
 april                4,032         3,950            nil   5000


 may                  3,989         3,896            nil
 june                 4,497         4,426            nil    4000


 july                 5,211         5,124            nil
 august               4,769         4,662            nil    3000


 september            4,644         4,488            nil
                                                            2000
 october              5,295         5,128            nil                                        total no. of complaints received          total no. of complaints resolved

 november             5,140         4,879            nil
                                                           1000
 december             5,893         5,678            nil
 grand
                    53,561        52,254             nil      0
 total                                                                             ry
                                                                    ar
                                                                       y
                                                                                 ua        ch        ril    ay     ne     ly         st             r         er           be
                                                                                                                                                                             r            r
                                                                                         ar        ap                   ju         gu            be         ob                         be
                                                                  nu          br                           m     ju                                                     m
                                                              ja            fe
                                                                                        m                                      au              em        ct            e             em
                                                                                                                                            pt          o           ov            ec
                                                                                                                                          se                       n             d




32 2016 annual report

                                                           customer complaints management and feedback


table 2 shows the total number of complaints and amount claims received as at the end of the financial year 2016 in
comparison with those received in 2015.



                                 number                            total amount claimed                         amount refunded



description                    2016              2015                   2016                   2015                2016                   2015



pending complaints
                               3,711              37      1,675,766,527.00         2,763,917,545.04                       -                  -
b/f



received complaints           53,561        31,714        4,241,751,384.07         1,260,421,212.67                 n/a                   n/a




resolved complaints           54,422        28,003              45,733,590.27            178,796,410       46,071,111.26      41,103,683.70



unresolved complaints
escalated to cbn for               -                -                       -                         -             n/a                   n/a
intervention

unresolved complaints
pending with the bank          2,850         3,711                                                                  n/a                   n/a
c/f




    number of pendings                    number of received                     number of resolved               unresolved complaints
      complaint b/f                          complaints                             complaints                    pending with the bank




     3,711         37                   53,561          31,714                  54,422      28,003               2,850         3,711
       2016          2015                 2016           2015                    2016         2015                 2016          2015




   total amount claimed on              total amount claimed on               amount refunded on                 total amount claimed on
   received complaint (ngn)            resolved complaints (ngn)            resolved complaints (ngn)          pending complaint b/f (ngn)




   4,241,751,384.07                      45,733,590.27                          46,071,111.26                     1,675,766,527.00
     2016                                  2016                                  2016                               2016

   1,260,421,212.67                      178,796,410                            41,103,683.70                     2,763,917,545.04
     2015                                  2015                                  2015                               2015




                                                                                                          33 2016 annual report

 03
reports

notice of the 2016 annual
general meeting
notice is hereby given that the 2016 annual general meeting of wema bank plc will be held at the banquet hall, civic center, ozumba mbadiwe, victoria
island lagos on wednesday, may 10, 2017 at 11:00am to transact the following business:

ordinary business

1.   to lay before the meeting the audited financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2016 together with the
      reports of the directors, auditors and audit committee thereon;
2.   to elect/re-elect the following directors as non-executive directors;
      a.     mr. adebode adefioye
      b.     mrs. abolanle matel-okoh
      c.     mr. babatunde kasali
3.   to authorize the directors to fix the fees of the auditors;
4.   to elect members of the audit committee;
5.   to approve the remuneration of directors.

proxy

a member entitled to attend and vote at the general meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote in his/her stead. a proxy need not be a member
of the company.

for the appointment to be valid, a completed and duly stamped proxy must be completed and deposited at the office of the registrar, gtl registrars limited,
274 murtala mohammed way yaba, lagos state, not less than 48 hours prior to the time fixed for the annual general meeting. a blank proxy form is attached
to the annual report.



dated this 7th day of april, 2017

by order of the board




wole ajimisinmi
frc/2013/nba/00000002116
company secretary
54, marina
lagos.



notes

a.   closure of register and transfer books

        the register of members and transfer books will be closed on monday, april 24, 2017 for the purpose of preparing an up-to-date register.

b.   statutory audit committee

        in accordance with section 359(5) of the companies and allied matters act cap c20 laws of the federation of nigeria 2004, any shareholder may
        nominate another shareholder for appointment to the audit committee. all nominations of members for appointment to the audit committee should
        reach the company secretary at least 21 days before the annual general meeting.

        kindly note that the provisions of the codes of corporate governance issued by the securities and exchange commission(sec) and central bank of
        nigeria has indicated that some members of the committee should be knowledgeable in internal control processes.

        furthermore, in line with the financial reporting council of nigeria(frcn) rules, the chairman of the statutory audit committee must be a professional
        member of an accounting body established by act of the national assembly in nigeria.

        consequently, all nominations should be accompanied by a copy of the nominee's detailed resume disclosing requisite qualification.

c.   biographical details of directors for re-election/election

        the profiles of the directors standing for election or re-election are provided in the annual report.

d.   rights of shareholders to ask questions

        shareholders have a right to ask questions not only at the meeting, but also in writing prior to the meeting on any item contained in the annual report
        and accounts. please send questions and comments to the company secretariat department, wema bank plc, 54 marina lagos not later than 28th day
        of april 2017.




                                                                                                                    35 2016 annual report

                     cards




                       advert




                                with you. all the way.
2016 annual report

chairman’s statement




adeyinka asekun
chairman, board of directors

chairman’s statement




i
  t is my pleasure once again to welcome you, our esteemed shareholders, to the 2016 annual general meeting of wema
  bank plc. in keeping with my role as chairman, board of directors of this enduring institution, i will be presenting our
  financial results and the operating environment for the 2016 financial year. i will also be sharing with you some of the
bank's achievements in 2016.

distinguished shareholders, fellow directors, ladies and gentlemen, no one will disagree that the 2016 financial year was a
rather challenging macroeconomic environment to operate under. inspite of this, i am pleased to say that our bank
delivered on large parts of its strategic goal for 2016; a strong validation of our long-term growth strategy.

given perceived systemic headwinds and the changing landscape facing the banking industry, it has become imperative to
us, as custodians of the bank, that we need to do things differently going forward, such as leveraging on technology, as an
enabler and a key element to the bank's business model.

wema bank continues to record significant achievements in this area, which will culminate in the launch of nigeria's first
digital bank. this is a testament of our resolve to be the industry leader as far as technology is concerned and it is our belief
that this will help the bank drive value for our customers and you, our shareholders in 2017, and beyond.

operating environment

global environment - populism reorganising established world order

the global environment in 2016 was fraught with uncertainty. first, from a chinese economy in transition which then
impacted commodity prices to the growing nationalist movement that has swept through the united states of america and
parts of europe, all in the wake of the syrian-iraq crisis.

according to the international monetary fund (imf), the global economy in 2016 grew at circa 3.1%. however, economic
activity is projected to pick up pace in 2017, increasing by 30 basis points to 3.4% fuelled by activities in emerging markets
and developing economies, though not without the caveat from growing protectionism.




   “in 2017, we are placing significant emphasis on ensuring
   our customers enjoy quality and convenient banking
   services. our commitment to delivering quality service has
   never been greater.”

tough macroeconomic environment expected to persist in 2017

the nigerian economy contracted in 2016 by -1.5%, as low oil prices and disruption in oil installations counteracted the
government's growth plans. in addition to this, we witnessed the inability of the central bank of nigeria to significantly
impact price stability through foreign exchange supply, as higher food, transport and energy prices coupled with low fiscal
and economic activity as well as dampened consumer and investor sentiments.

nevertheless, there are silver linings for the economy. the recent opec deal with some non-opec members, to cut about 2
million barrels from daily production in november 2016 sent brent crude prices soaring past the $50/barrel mark
($57/barrel; january 2017). it is hoped that this price increase would be complemented by oil throughput, providing the
needed tailwinds to improve economic activity in 2017. in addition, we expect the government to release its audacious
economic plan, particularly towards self-sufficiency and infrastructure.

nigeria's gdp growth for 2017 according to the imf, is forecasted at 0.8% while inflation in 2017 is expected to trend
downward in the long run, in response to adjustments to 2016 policies. however, this would only be attainable through
clear, targeted economic policies while installing and instilling continued institutional reforms.

financial scorecard

the bank continued to record improved performances, as gross earnings in 2016 grew by 17.36% from ₦45.79 billion in
2015 to ₦53.83 billion. profit before tax (pbt) and profit after tax (pat) increased by 9.36% and 14.1% respectively to ₦3.27
billion and ₦2.59 billion against ₦2.99 billion and ₦2.27 billion in 2015.




38 2016 annual report

                                                                                             chairman’s statement



                                                                                                     financial score card
total assets as at december 2016 stood at ₦421 billion representing a 6% increase over
the ₦397 billion recorded in the corresponding period of 2015 as loans to customers
rose by 23% to close the 2016 year at ₦227 billion from ₦186 billion recorded in 2015.                    gross earnings

the bank during the year maintained its non-performing loans (npl) at 5.07% despite           2016                              2015
the challenging macro-economic environment. furthermore, the bank continues to                                       %
                                                                                              n53.83bn
                                                                                                            17.36         n45.79bn

record growth in its retail deposit drive, as the wema brand gains continued acceptance.
savings deposit grew by 27.6% from ₦35.58 billion to ₦45.40 billion while current
account deposit grew by 2% from ₦86.29billion to ₦87.85 billion.

our strategic focus
                                                                                                         profit before tax

in our continued bid to constantly review our business model, the bank re-affirmed four
                                                                                              2016                              2015
(4) key determinants namely innovation and technology, fostering relationship, risk                                  %
management and national footprint. we strongly believe that these success factors
                                                                                              n3.27bn
                                                                                                             9.36            n2.99bn



would aid the attainment of our strategic objective, bordering on expertise, excellence
and efficiency (3es).

the bank will continue to optimise its balance sheet whilst streamlining our processes
and driving efficiency. furthermore, the bank will continue to focus on value creation for                 total assets
our esteemed customers and particularly our shareholders.
                                                                                              2016                              2015
                                                                                                                 %
promoting financial inclusion                                                                 n421bn
                                                                                                                6            n397bn




at wema bank, we strongly align ourselves with the financial inclusion drive of the
central bank of nigeria. the future of our industry is intrinsically linked to increased
participation by nigerians across the various spectra of life.
                                                                                                         savings deposit
in 2016, and by way of deepening financial inclusion, your bank commissioned its first
mobile branch. the mobile branch allows us to literally drive our touch point to areas
                                                                                              2016                               2015
where there are limited banking services available to the community. it also ensures
that we continue to provide uninterrupted financial services to support locations where
                                                                                               n45.40bn
                                                                                                              27.6%          n35.58bn



banking operations have been affected due to various reasons. the mobile branch
represents one component of the entire wema bank financial inclusion ecosystem.

the bank launched its ussd banking platform called *945# during the year. the
                                                                                                              npl (%)
platform enables our customers, anywhere in the country to transfer funds, monitor
their accounts, buy airtime, open accounts and pay bills all from their mobile phones.
                                                                                               2016                              2015

the bank places significant emphasis on driving participation across our entire                5.07%
                                                                                                              89.9%             2.67%


alternate platforms. measurement tools in the bank have been refocused to ensure
significant improvement amongst staff in technology know-how and pushing out
platforms that will enrich our customer's businesses and daily activities.

achievements                                                                                               loans (net)

in the course of the 2016 financial year, your bank recorded significant success in
                                                                                              2016                              2015
various areas worth enunciating. as stated earlier, we launched the bank's mobile             n227.01bn
                                                                                                              22.3%       n185.6bn

branch as part of our financial inclusion drive.

in spite of the tremendous challenges we faced as a bank in 2016, the bank maintained
both its international and domestic long-term national rating at (bbb-) with a stable
outlook. we remain investment grade and this is particularly important as we seek to                   capital adequacy ratio
attract new investment into the bank to allow us grow our business in 2017.

                                                                                              2016                              2015
also during the year, the bank executed its long-term strategic goal to partner with key
institutions within the telecommunication space. in december 2016, we successfully
                                                                                              11.07%
                                                                                                              26.7%           15.10%


launched the *945*10# initiative, also known as “wemaeasysavers” in partnership with
etisalat. the project will expose customers of both institutions to best-in-class banking
service and connectivity.




                                                                                             39 2016 annual report

chairman’s statement



customers on the etisalat platform will be able to open wema accounts from their mobile phone via the *945*10#
platform. we are confident that the partnership will be successful and boost our customer acquisition drive in 2017.

in 2016, the bank set up the wema digital lab, which has developed a digital product suite, named alat. our digital
offering intends to revolutionize the digital banking landscape as we press on to deliver africa’s first truly digital bank. alat
is a new and distinct digital offering, with a value proposition centered around convenience and reliability. alat will
facilitate an end-to-end digital minimum viable product targeted at the identified market segments (youth, young
professionals and young entrepreneurs). we expect to acquire a minimum of 300,000 customers in the first three months.

these new customers will significantly change the demographic of the bank's existing customer base. they will have a
natural predilection towards technology and utilising the full basket of alternative platform offerings from alat. we
envisage that the bulk of these customers will be youths. these individuals that will allow the bank utilise its single most
important strength; building relationships that will endure for decades to come.

technology will be the single most important disruptor to the banking system in the coming years. with alat, we are
positioning ourselves at the forefront of this inevitable disruption as market leaders.

corporate governance

the bank received approval from the central bank of nigeria (cbn), confirming mr. ademola adebise as the substantive
deputy managing director of the bank. ademola served as an executive director prior to this confirmation and has been
instrumental to the transformation and growth of the bank till date.

i would like to congratulate ademola on his confirmation and i strongly believe that he will discharge the duties of his new
office with the highest humility and to the benefit of all concerned. i pray that the almighty god will strengthen him for the
responsibilities ahead.



outlook for 2017
i am very optimistic about the future of our economy and the country, given the current administration's economic plans –
such as easing the cost of doing business while instituting reforms aimed at promoting efficiency in the public sector and
weaning the nation off its dependence on oil through diversification.

as a bank, we look forward to 2017 with continued optimism in terms of performance and profitability, though not without
expected headwinds. we will continue to leverage on technology as our competitive edge. the strategic partnership
between wema bank and etisalat on the wemaeasysavers initiative elicits great optimism for 2017 and we expect
significant improvements in customer acquisition and technology adoption within the bank.

in 2017, we are also placing significant emphasis on ensuring that our customers enjoy quality and convenient banking
services. our commitment to delivering quality service has never been greater. internal metrics and financial
commitments, through the upgrades of all our touchpoints, have been refocused on the bank's purple rules and our
commitment to ensure we deliver a delightful and memorable customer service experience.

we have continued to make progress in the transformation of the bank in the last few years and we are particularly pleased
with our achievements in the 2016 financial year, despite the particularly challenging operating environment. this has
given us greater confidence that in 2017, we are better equipped to serve our shareholders and customers better.

thank you for your continued support and loyalty.




adeyinka asekun
chairman board of directors
frc/2013/iod/00000003818




40 2016 annual report

directors’ report
for the year ended 31 december 2016

the directors present their annual report on the affairs of wema bank plc (the "bank"), the audited financial statements
and independent auditor's report for the financial year ended 31 december 2016.

legal form

the bank was incorporated in nigeria under the companies act of nigeria as a private limited liability company on may 2,
1945 and was converted to a public company in april 1987. the bank's shares, which are currently quoted on the nigerian
stock exchange, were first listed in february 1991. the bank was issued a universal banking license by the central bank of
nigeria on january 2001. arising from the consolidation in the banking industry, wema bank plc acquired national bank
of nigeria plc in december 2005. currently, the bank is a commercial bank with national banking authorization under
the new cbn licensing regime to operate in nigeria.

reporting entity

wema bank plc (the bank) is a company domiciled in nigeria. the address of the bank's registered office is 54, marina,
lagos, nigeria. the bank is primarily involved in corporate, commercial, retail banking and financial advisory services.
the bank has akintola williams deloitte as auditors, gtl registrars limited as registrar and oluwole ajimisinmi as
company secretary/legal adviser.

principal activity

the principal activity of the bank is the provision of banking and other financial services to corporate and individual
customers. such services include granting of loans and advances, corporate finance and other banking services.

operating results
                                                                       group                    bank                 bank
                                                                   31-dec-16                31-dec-16            31-dec-15
gross earnings                                                     53,948,848              53,834,407           45,869,441
profit on ordinary activities before taxation                       3,245,145               3,276,365            2,991,458
taxation                                                            (684,565)                (684,565)            (718,253)

profit on ordinary activities after taxation                        2,560,580               2,591,800            2,273,205

profit attributable to equity holders                               2,560,580               2,591,800            2,273,205


appropriation:
transfer to statutory reserve                                         777,540                 777,540              698,183
transfer to general reserve                                         1,783,040               1,814,260            1,575,022
basic earnings per share                                                 6.6k                    6.7k                 5.9k
total non-performing loans to gross loans                              5.07%                    5.07%                2.67%



directors' shareholding

the following directors of the bank held office during the year and had direct interests in the issued share capital of the
bank as recorded in the register of directors shareholding as noted below:




                                                                                         41 2016 annual report

directors’ report

 no.     name of director                 position                     holdings in 2016           holdings in 2015
 1       mr. adeyinka asekun              chairman                               50,000                          -
 2       mr. segun oloketuyi              md/ceo                                      -                          -
 3       mr. adebode adefioye             director                                6,988                      6,988
 4       mr. abubakar lawal               director                                    -                          -
 5       mr. samuel durojaye              director                                    -                          -
 6       ms. tina vukor-quarshie          director                                    -                          -
 7       mrs. omobosola ojo               director                                    -                          -
 8       mrs. abolanle matel-okoh         director                        1,750,000,000                          -
 9       mr. ademola adebise              executive director                    10,265                      10,265
 10      mr. moruf oseni                  executive director                          -                          -
 11      mr. oluwole akinleye             executive director                   632,950                           -
 12      mrs. folake sanu                 executive director                    12,677                           -


retirement of directors

in accordance with the provisions of section 259 of the companies and allied matters act of nigeria, one third of the
directors of the bank shall retire from office. the directors to retire every year shall be those who have been longest in
office since their last election. in accordance with the provisions of this section, messrs. abolanle matel-okohn and
adebode adefioye will retire by rotation and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.

pursuant to section 249 of the companies and allied matter act of nigeria, the board appointed mr. babatunde kasali as a
non executive director to fill a casual vacancy on the board. the appointment of babatunde kasali has been approved by
the central bank of nigeria and will be presented for shareholders approval at this meeting.

remuneration and expenses of directors

the bank ensures that remuneration paid to its directors complies with the provisions of the codes of corporate
governance.

in compliance with sec. 34(5) of the code of corporate governance issued by securities and exchange commission, the
bank hereby makes disclosure of the remuneration paid to its directors as follows:

type of package                         description                                               time

basic salary                            part of the gross salary paid to                          monthly
                                        executive directors only

directors’ fees                         paid to non-executive directors only.                     paid after annual
                                        the amount paid is n6,000,000 for                         general meeting
                                        chairman and n4,500,000 for the
                                        other directors

sitting allowance                        paid to non-executive directors only.                   paid after each meeting
                                        the amount paid is n200,000 for chairman
                                        and n150,000 for other directors


the company reimburses all reasonable and properly documented expenses incurred while performing the duties of their
office.

directors' interests in contracts

directors have no interest in any contract in the year under review.

property and equipment

information relating to changes in property and equipment is given in note 22: to the financial statements. in the directors'
opinion, the net realizable value of the bank's properties is not less than the carrying value in the financial statements.




42 2016 annual report

                                                                                                    directors’ report

remuneration policy

mandate & terms of reference

the remuneration policy is a product of the nomination and governance committee of the board of directors ("the
board") of wema bank plc (''wema"). the committee is set out in compliance with various corporate governance codes of
conduct.

objectives

this policy sets out the criteria and mechanism for determining the levels of remuneration of the directors of the bank and
the frequency for review of same. it further defines the process for determining directors compensations and rewards for
corporate and individual performance.

purpose

amongst others, this policy attempts to:

a.    ensure remuneration is provided in a form that will attract, retain and motivate qualified industry professionals as
      directors of a major bank
b.    balance and align the remuneration of the directors with the short-term and long-term elements of their tasks
c.    align the interests of the executive and non-executive directors with the interests of the shareholders and other
      stakeholders of the bank; and
d.    ensure that remuneration reflects performance.

executive directors remuneration components

a.   fixed remuneration

the fixed remuneration shall be determined on the basis of the role of the individual director, including responsibility, skill
and experience, job complexity, performance and the specific needs of the bank at the material time.

b.   performance-based remuneration

the nomination & governance committee shall determine a maximum percentage of performance-based remuneration
relative to the fixed remuneration in line with the kpis as defined by executive contract of the executives.

c.   pension schemes

executive directors are covered by defined pension contribution plans and the bank remits both its percentage of the
pension contributions and that of the executive director to the nominated pension managers every month.

d.   severance pay

executive directors are entitled to severance pay as determined in their contracts of employment.

shareholding analysis

wema bank plc shareholdings pattern/range analysis as at 31 december 2016

                                                     number of        shareholders           number of         shareholding
                 share range
                                                   shareholders                 %             holdings                    %
                1        -      1,000                     29,499               12.02          15,103,729                0.04
            1,001        -      5,000                    146,979               59.88         305,709,677                0.79
            5,001        -      10,000                    28,859               11.76         200,309,995                0.52
           10,001        -      50,000                    30,954               12.61         621,733,334                1.61
           50,001        -      100,000                    4,584                1.87         328,067,692                0.85
          100,001        -      500,000                    3,803                1.55         720,740,441                1.87
          500,001        -      1,000,000                    361                0.15         260,427,096                0.68
        1,000,001        -      5,000,000                    340                0.14         641,940,744                1.66
        5,000,001        -      10,000,000                    30                0.01         204,232,362                0.53
       10,000,001        -      500,000,000                   51                0.02       4,953,001,786               12.84
       500,000,001      -       1,000,000,000                  8               0.00       4,922,725,909                12.76
     1,000,000,000     and      above                          8               0.00      25,400,473,316                65.85
                                total:                   245,476             100.00      38,574,466,081               100.00


                                                                                            43 2016 annual report

directors’ report

 wema bank plc shareholdings pattern/range analysis as at 31 december 2015

                                                         number of     shareholders           number of      shareholding
                         share range
                                                       shareholders              %             holdings                 %
                    1         -        1,000                 29,289            11.91           15,043,724             0.04
                1,001         -        5,000                147,175            59.83          306,253,070             0.79
                5,001         -        10,000                29,010            11.79          201,337,002             0.52
               10,001         -        50,000                31,225            12.69          627,893,211             1.63
               50,001         -        100,000                4,668             1.90          333,991,175             0.87
              100,001         -        500,000                3,858             1.57          733,042,580             1.90
              500,001         -        1,000,000                363             0.15          263,007,974             0.68
            1,000,001         -        5,000,000                324             0.13          621,315,790             1.61
            5,000,001         -        10,000,000                28             0.01          186,247,681             0.48
           10,000,001         -        500,000,000               47             0.02        4,476,579,836            11.61
           500,000,001       -         1,000,000,000              6             0.00        3,881,215,325            10.06
         1,000,000,000      and        above                      4             0.00       26,928,538,713            69.81
                                       total:               245,997           100.00       38,574,466,081           100.00


substantial interests in shares

according to register of members, as at 31 december 2016, the following shareholders held more than 5% of the
issued share capital of the bank:

     s/no                 name                                                         holding                 % holding

     1                    neemtree limited                                     10,623,226,546                       27.54
     2                    odua investment                                       3,857,446,608                       10.01
     3                    petrotrab limited                                     3,295,880,000                        8.54
     4                    sw8 investment ltd                                    3,095,569,669                        8.02

according to register of members, as at 31 december 2015, the following shareholders held more than 5% of the
issued share capital of the bank:

     s/no        name                                                                  holding                 % holding
     1           first pension custodian/asset management                      13,470,031,454                       34.92
                 corporation of nigeria
     2           neemtree limited                                               7,067,057,590                       18.32
     3           petrotrab limited                                              3,295,880,000                        8.54
     4           sw8 investment ltd                                             3,095,569,669                        8.02


the bank made contributions to charitable and non-political organizations amounting to ₦30,200,000 (31 december
2015: ₦32,427,765) during the year, as listed below:

                                                                                                                     n'000
     1        lagos archives & property litigation reg                                                           20,000.00
     2        ogun @ 40 and investor's forum                                                                      8,000.00
     3        economic communication seminar                                                                      1,500.00
     4        other donations                                                                                       700.00
              total                                                                                              30,200.00


several other humanitarian services were rendered during the year under the purple nectar campaign programme
totaling ₦5,300,000; this was in the form of health grants given to eleven beneficiaries.

events after reporting date

a.       the balance due to central bank of nigeria amounting to ₦6.42billion (note 30) has been paid by the bank in january
         2017 and the bank received a letter from the central bank of nigeria on 21 february 2017 confirming the full
         settlement of the financial accommodation of ₦50bilion granted to the bank in october 2009.

b.       as a follow up to the resolution at the annual general meeting held on 6 may, 2016 on the proposed scheme of
         arrangement for the reorganization of shareholders' funds of the bank, a no objection order was obtained from the
         financial reporting council nigeria on the capital reorganization subject to certain stipulated conditions therein.
         other regulatory steps for the consummation of the scheme including the approvals of the federal high court to
         convene a court ordered meeting of shareholders to approve the scheme are currently on-going. we hope to
         conclude the process in the next couple of months.


44 2016 annual report

                                                                                                    directors’ report

human resources

(i) employment of disabled persons

the bank continues to maintain a policy of giving fair consideration to application for employment made by disabled
persons with due regard to their abilities and aptitudes. the bank's policies prohibit discrimination against disabled
persons in the recruitment, training and career development of employees. in the event of members of staff becoming
disabled, efforts will be made to ensure that their employment with the bank continues and appropriate training arranged
to ensure that they fit into the bank's working environment.

(ii) health, safety and welfare at work

the bank enforces strict health and safety rules and practices at the work environment, which are reviewed and tested
regularly. in addition, medical facilities are provided for staff and their immediate families at the bank's expense.

fire prevention and fire-fighting equipment are installed in strategic locations within the bank's premises.

the bank operates both group personal accident and workmen's compensation insurance cover for the benefit of its
employees. it also operates a contributory pension plan in line with the pension reform act, 2004.

employee involvement and training

the bank ensures, through various fora, that employees are informed on matters concerning them. formal and informal
channels are also employed in communication with employees with an appropriate two-way feedback mechanism.

in accordance with the bank's policy of continuous development, the bank draws up annual training programmes. the
programmes include on the job training, classroom sessions and web-based training programmes which are available to all
staff.

employee gender analysis

the number and percentage of women in the bank during the financial year vis-à-vis total workforce is as follows:

total employees




                 male                   female                      total                    male                   female



                      562                   449                     1011                    56%                      44%



 board & top management                           male           female             total             male           female


 assistant general manager                          11                 3               14            79%              21%

 deputy general manager                              5                 1                6            83%              17%

 general manager                                     3                 0                3           100%               0%

 executive director                                  2                 1                3            67%              33%

 deputy managing director                            1                 0                1           100%               0%

 managing director                                   1                 0                1           100%               0%

 non-executive director                              4                 3                7            57%              43%

 total                                              27                 8               35            77%              23%

                                                                                            45 2016 annual report

directors’ report


customer complaints management and feedback

the bank recognizes the importance of customer patronage to the growth of its business and thus considers customer
complaints and feedback as valuable information to improve its service delivery.

wema bank has continued to improve on its feedback channels to ensure timely and satisfactory resolution of complaints.
in view of this, a consumer protection unit resident at the head office was also created to resolve service issues as raised
without further delay in addition to the fully equipped state of the art contact centre – purple connect. the available
feedback channels in the bank are listed below:

hotlines:          08039003700, 01-2777700
email:             purpleconnect@wemabank.com
sms:               07051112111
live chart:        www.wemabank.com
letters:           consumer protection unit, customer service management
                   department, 54, marina, lagos

auditors

akintola williams deloitte has indicated its willingness to continue in office as auditors in accordance with section 357 (2) of
the companies and allied matters act, cap c20 lfn 2004. the auditors, having indicated their willingness to continue in
office, a resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting to authorize the directors to determine their
remuneration.

by order of the board




wole ajimisinmi
frc/2013/nba/00000002116
company secretary
wema towers
54 marina
lagos.

3 march 2017




46 2016 annual report

           board of directors




adeyinka asekun                segun oloketuyi
chairman, board of directors   managing director/ceo

board of directors




 ademola adebise            moruf oseni              wole akinleye
 deputy managing director   executive director       executive director




 folake sanu                adebode adefioye         abubakar lawal
 executive director         non-executive director   non-executive director




48 2016 annual report

                                                           board of directors




samuel durojaye             tina vukor-quarshie
non-executive director      independent non-executive




omobosola ojo               abolanle matel-okoh
independent non-executive   non-executive director




                                                        49 2016 annual report

board of directors

profile of directors




mr. adeyinka asekun                                segun oloketuyi                           ademola adebise                              moruf oseni
chairman                                           managing director/                        deputy managing director                     executive director
board of directors                                 chief executive officer                                                                retail & north directorate

adeyinka asekun is a graduate of                   segun oloketuyi, a consummate             ademola adebise is a graduate of             moruf oseni is an executive director
the university of wisconsin, where                 banker with several years of banking      c o m p u t e r s c i e n c e f ro m t h e   on the board of wema bank plc with
he obtained a bachelor of business                 and managerial experience, is the         university of lagos where he                 oversight responsibility for the
a d m i n i s t ra t i o n , m a j o r i n g i n   managing director/chief executive         obtained a bachelor's degree                 retail products and e-business as
marketing. he went on to obtain an                 officer of wema bank plc. until his       (second class upper division) in             well as the north directorate.
mba from california state                          appointment, he was an executive          1987. he also holds an mba degree
university.                                        director, skye bank plc with the          from the prestigious pan african             prior to his appointment as an
                                                   responsibility for business               university, lagos business school.           executive director, moruf was the
he began his career at s.c johnson &               development across lagos and                                                           ceo of mg ineso limited, a private
son (u.s.a), an fmcg multinational                 south-west directorates of the            as a seasoned and professional               investment and financial advisory
company in 1983. he has taken up                   bank.                                     banker of repute with over 20 years'         firm with interests spanning various
different managerial positions                                                               experience, ademola's experience             sectors of the economy. before mg
abroad and in nigeria since then.                  a fellow of the institute of chartered    spans information technology,                ineso, moruf was a vice president at
                                                   accounts of nigeria (ican), segun is      financial control & strategic                renaissance capital, where he was
mr. asekun is a retail banking                     a second class upper division             planning, treasury, corporate                responsible for dcm, ecm and
specialist with over two decades of                graduate of chemistry from                banking, risk management and                 structured capital markets
experience in the sales and                        university of lagos. he started out       performance management.                      origination and execution for sub-
marketing of financial products and                in 1985 as an auditor with the then                                                    saharan african corporates. he was
services. he worked in international               akintola williams and co.                 prior to joining wema bank plc in            also an associate at salomon
merchant bank, uba plc and                         (chartered accountants). segun            2009, he was head, finance &                 brothers/citigroup global markets
oceanic bank plc. noteworthy                       attended various professional and         performance practice in accenture            in london and new york where he
among his assignments were; head                   leadership training programmes in         (nigeria) and programme manager              was involved in credit market
of the national sales force and                    the course of his banking career. he      on a transformation project for one          origination and execution for
head of retail credit products at                  is an mba alumnus of the lagos            of the old generation banks in               european financial institutions.
uba plc, head of retail banking at                 business school and the advanced          nigeria. he also led various projects        during his tenure at citigroup, he
oceanic bank and acting managing                   m a n a g e m e n t p ro g ra m m e o f   for banks which include business             was involved in the origination of
director of oceanic homes. his                     insead, fontainebleau, france.            process re-engineering, selection &          various pioneering and innovative
most recent board level                                                                      implementation of core banking               instruments across the debt
appointments were; non-executive                   in october 2005, segun was                application, consumer lending                spectrum. he commenced his
director at oceanic insurance and                  appointed the acting managing             transformation, etc.                         career as an it officer with nigeria
oceanic savings and loans. he is                   director of bond bank plc during                                                       liquefied natural gas company
currently the ceo of hebron limited                which he steered the bank through a       he is a fellow of the institute of           (nlng).
a company involved in business                     successful merger process with            chartered accountants of nigeria as
training and consulting and a non                  skye bank plc. following the              well as an associate of the                  moruf holds an mba degree from
executive director at e-tranzact                   successful and hitch-free merger, he      chartered institute of taxation &            the prestigious institut european
international plc.                                 was appointed an executive                computer professionals                       d'administration des affaires
                                                   director (finance & enterprise risk       (registration council of nigeria).           (insead) in france, a masters in
ade joined the board of directors of               management) in january 2006. he           ademola adebise is also an alumnus           finance (mif) from the london
wema bank plc in august 2012. he                   was also the post-merger                  of harvard business school.                  business school, london and a b.sc.
became chairman of the board of                    integration coordinator that                                                           degree in computer engineering
directors on 24 december 2012.                     worked with different integration         he is currently on the board of aiico        from obafemi awolowo university
ade is considered to be a team                     teams and external consultants            insurance plc, aiico pensions                (oau), ile-ife, nigeria.
player whose experience and profile                following the merger of the different     management ltd and fitc
make him well suited to play a                     legacy banks that formed skye bank                                                     he is currently a director in
leading role in the successful                     plc.                                                                                   continental broadcasting limited.
implementation of wema bank's
transformation agenda.




50 2016 annual report

                                                                                                                                        board of directors

profile of directors




wole akinleye                            folake sanu                                          mr. adebode adefioye                      mr. abubakar lawal
executive director                       executive director                                   non-executive director                    non-executive director
south-west directorate                   lagos directorate

with over 20 years of cognate            folake is an astute finance                          mr. adefioye is an alumnus of the         mr. lawal holds an hnd certificate
banking experience, wole akinleye        professional and banker of repute                    university of lagos from where he         in banking & finance from the
is the executive director responsible    with over 32years working                            obtained a b.sc. degree (chemistry)       polytechnic of ibadan (1988) and
for coordinating business                experience in banking, professional                  in 1983 and two years later became        proceeded to the abubakar tafawa
development activities in the south-     accounting and auditing practice.                    a master of science degree holder         balewa university, kano, to obtain
west region.                             her experience spans corporate                       from the same citadel of knowledge.       an mba degree in 1999.
                                         s t r a t e g y, f i n a n c i a l c o n t r o l ,
his work experience cuts across all      operations, technology, risk                         he started his career with john holt      mr. lawal worked in midas finance
major areas of banking operations        management, audit, mergers &                         plc and rose through the ranks to         limited, ibadan as investment
including retail, corporate banking      acquisitions, credit and marketing.                  become a general manager from             officer (1990 – 1993). he joined the
and risk management, wole                                                                     2000 – 2002 having held several           services of city code trust limited,
akinleye was group head, business        prior to joining wema bank, folake                   management positions. he served           lagos as a manager in 1993 before
development, lagos for stanbicibtc       was chief financial officer and later,               at different levels and sections in the   he joined altrade securities limited,
prior to joining wema bank in 2009.      chief compliance officer of sterling                 company with his experience               ikeja as an assistant general
at stanbicibtc, he held at various       bank where she was instrumental to                   covering production & quality             manager in 1995.
times, the role of regional head,        the successful merger of 5 different                 control, personnel and
retail & commercial banking in the       banks to form sterling bank plc. she                 administration before opting for an       he is a professional and a fellow of
bank's lagos island          lagos       also anchored the integration and                    early retirement in 2002 and has          the chartered institute of
mainland and south-west regions.         service reengineering process of the                 since been engaged in business and        s t o c k b ro ke r s , t h e c h a r t e re d
                                         newly formed bank's operational                      public service.                           institute of bankers in nigeria, the
a fellow of the institute of chartered   platform. folake left sterling bank to                                                         institute of directors (iod), the
accountants of nigeria (ican), wole      establish jfsc consulting, now averti                currently he serves on the board of       associate certified pension
obtained his first degree in             professional managers after a                        lafarge africa plc, eterna plc,           practitioner and associate national
accounting from obafemi awolowo          successful merger of four consulting                 cereem investment limited, sw8            institute of marketing of nigeria. his
university in 1989 and                   firms in october 2013.                               investment limited, ibk services          career in the capital market spans a
subsequently, a masters degree in                                                             limited and spectrum ventures             period of 15 years. he is a highly
business administration (finance)        a fellow of the institute of chartered               limited to mention a few.                 experienced stock broker. he is also
from the same university. a widely       accountants of nigeria and an                                                                  a member of the ikoyi club 1938 and
travelled banker, wole has attended      honorary senior member of the                                                                  ikeja golf club amongst others. he
several senior leadership                chartered institute of bankers of                                                              is a retired council member of the
programmes around the world.             nigeria, folake is an alumnus of the                                                           nigerian stock exchange and
                                         london business school and has                                                                 member, chartered institute of
                                         attended various management                                                                    stock brokers.
                                         courses in reputable institutions
                                         including harvard business school                                                              he loves reading and golfing. mr.
                                         and insead, france.                                                                            lawal is the managing director/ceo
                                                                                                                                        of gti capital ltd, he is happily
                                                                                                                                        married with children.




                                                                                                                                   51 2016 annual report

board of directors

profile of directors




mr. samuel durojaye                                ms. tina vukor-quarshie                          mrs. omobosola ojo                       mrs. abolanle matel-okoh
non-executive director                             independent                                      independent                              non-executive director
                                                   non-executive director                           non-executive director

mr. durojaye was born on april 18,                 tina vukor-quarshie holds a                      mrs. omobosola ojo holds a               an attorney with over 20 years of
1958 in ijebu north east local                     bachelors degree (second class,                  bachelor of arts degree in general       experience in nigeria and the united
government area of ogun state.                     upper division) and then a masters               history from ondo state university       states of america, bola is a member
                                                   degree in pharmacy from the                      (1988 - 1992). she obtained a            of the nigerian bar and the new york
he is a fellow of the institute of                 university of ife, now obafemi                   bachelor of law degree from the          state appellate division, third
                                                   awolowo university, ile-ife. whilst at
chartered accountants of nigeria                                                                    university of buckingham, united         department bar.
                                                   the university of ife, she was
and the chartered institute of                                                                      kingdom in 1995 and was called to
                                                   honoured with a national merit
bankers of nigeria. he is also an                  award by the federal government of               bar after attending the nigerian law     with experience in diverse areas of
associate member of chartered                      nigeria for scholastic excellence.               school between 1997 – 2000.              judicial science encompassing legal
institute of stockbrokers of nigeria                                                                                                         research, investigation, adjudication
and associate, institute of directors,             with a flair for finance, she went on            mrs. omobosola ojo started her           amongst others, bola started her
nigeria.                                           to obtain an mba degree in 1988                  working career with the ministry of      career in united commercial bank as
                                                   from the university of benin, benin              justice, department of public            a legal officer in 1992. over the next
mr. durojaye's employment profile                  city and was the recipient of the dr.            prosecution, alausa secretariat, ikeja   20 years, bola gained relevant
covers union bank plc (formerly                    samuel ogbemudia prize for the                   lagos as a youth corps member            experience in legal practice and real
barclays), balogun ayanfalu badejo                 best graduating student in business              (2005 - 2006). she joined o. adekoya     estate business in various firms
& co (chartered accountants),                      policy and the chief isaac                       & co. herbert macaulay, yaba as an       based in nigeria and the usa.
                                                   akinmokun prize for the best
nigerian breweries plc as an                                                                        associate junior counsel (2003 -
                                                   graduating student in
accountant and finance manager                                                                      2004) with responsibilities which        a law graduate of the ogun state
                                                   entrepreneurial development. she
between 1986 and november 1990.                    w a s a w a rd e d a n h o n o u ra r y          included preparing court cases,          university, bola holds a bachelor of
                                                   doctorate degree by the                          drafting letters to clients,             law degree from the nigerian law
before his appointment on the                      commonwealth university, belize /                representing clients in courts           school, lagos and is also a licensed
board of the bank, he was a director               london graduate school in 2012.                  among others.                            real estate agent from the weichert
on the boards of pilot finance                                                                                                               real estate school, new jersey, usa.
limited and towergate insurance                    'tvq', as she is fondly called, began            mrs. omobosola ojo is currently a
plc. he was appointed                              her banking career with                          partner with fola akinrinsola, ojo &     abolanle matel-okoh is the current
commissioner for finance in ogun                   international merchant bank (imb)                co., lagos which she joined in 2006.     ceo of havilah ventures ltd.
state and served in this capacity                  ltd as a credit analyst in 1988. tvq
between may 1999 and may 2003.                     also had a stellar career in zenith
                                                   bank plc which she joined in 1990 as
                                                   a pioneer member of staff, rising
he currently occupies the position of
                                                   through the ranks and heading
t h e m a n a g i n g d i re c t o r / c h i e f   several divisions at senior
executive officer in pilot finance.                m a n a g e m e n t l ev e l i n c l u d i n g
                                                   treasury/financial institutions,
                                                   corporate and correspondent
                                                   banking, foreign exchange, retail
                                                   banking and human resources
                                                   amongst others, before being
                                                   appointed an executive director in
                                                   1999.

                                                   she joined guaranty trust bank as a
                                                   divisional director, commercial
                                                   banking in 2001 and then moved to
                                                   platinum bank as an executive
                                                   director in 2002.

                                                   tvq has served in various senior
                                                   management roles and board
                                                   positions across the banking
                                                   industry and is currently the chief
                                                   executive officer/chief service
                                                   marshal of tvq consulting group® -
                                                   a training and consulting firm with a
                                                   focus on customer service,
                                                   marketing and leadership.




52 2016 annual report

                                                                                                            management team




executive management




segun oloketuyi                     ademola adebise                    moruf oseni
managing director/ceo               deputy managing director           executive director




wole akinleye                       folake sanu
executive director                  executive director




general managers




olusoji jenyo                       okon okon
                                    regional executive, south-south   oluwole ajimisinmi
divisional head, business support                                     company secretary/legal adviser
                                    business group




                                                                                                        53 2016 annual report

management team



deputy general managers




 henry alakhume                   olukayode bakare                 olanrewaju ajayi                tunde mabawonku
 head, corporate banking group    treasurer                        head, project finance & power   chief financial officer




 olufunke okoli                   tolulope adegbie
 head, human capital management   regional manager, lagos island




assistant general managers




 adedotun ifebogun                dele adeyinka                    funke irabor                    jide bello
 head, retail & sme banking       head, digital bank (alat)        regional manager, ogun region   regional manager, north




54 2016 annual report

                                                                                                  management team



assistant general managers contd.




olajide omole                   rotimi badiru                         sylvanus eneche             opeyemi okhelen
regional manager, ikeja         head, branch & central operations     ag. chief risk officer      chief compliance officer




oluwatoyin karieren              adeoluwa komolafe                    onitiri kunle               olufemi olowoyeye
head internal control            chief information security officer   chief inspector             regional manager apapa




 olaitan sunday
 regional manager, oyo & osun




                                                                                               55 2016 annual report

statement of directors'
responsibilities
for the preparation and approval of
the financial statements


the directors of wema bank plc are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements that give a true and
fair view of the financial position of the group as at 31 december 2016, and the results of its operations, cash flows and
changes in equity for the year ended, in compliance with international financial reporting standards ("ifrs") and in the
manner required by the companies and allied matters act of nigeria, the financial reporting council of nigeria act, 2011
and bank and other financial institutions act cap b3 lfn 2004.

in preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors are responsible for:

ÿ     properly selecting and applying accounting policies;
ÿ     presenting information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
      understandable information;
ÿ     providing additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in ifrss are insufficient to enable
      users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the bank's financial position
      and financial performance; and
ÿ     making an assessment of the bank's ability to continue as a going concern.

the directors are responsible for:

ÿ     designing, implementing and maintaining an effective and sound system of internal controls throughout the group;
ÿ     maintaining adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the bank's transactions and disclose
      with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of bank, and which enable them to ensure that the financial
      statements of the bank comply with ifrs.

ÿ     maintaining statutory accounting records in compliance with the legislation of nigeria and ifrs.
ÿ     taking such steps as are reasonably available to them to safeguard the assets of the group; and
ÿ     preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.

going concern:

the directors have made an assessment of the group's ability to continue as a going concern and have no reason to believe
the group will not remain a going concern in the year ahead.

the consolidated financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 december 2016 were approved by the board of
directors on march 3, 2017

on behalf of the directors of the group




        adeyinka asekun                              segun oloketuyi                               tunde mabawonku
             chairman                             managing director/ceo                            chief financial officer
    frc/2013/iod/00000003818                   frc/2013/ican/00000002099                        frc/2013/ican/00000002097




                                                                                            56 2016 annual report

report of the audit
committee
to the members of wema bank plc


in accordance with the provisions of section 359(6) of the companies and allied matters act of nigeria, the members of the
audit committee of wema bank plc hereby report as follows:

ÿ   we have exercised our statutory functions under section 359(6) of the companies and allied matters act of nigeria and
    acknowledge the cooperation of management and staff in the conduct of these responsibilities.

ÿ   we are of the opinion that the accounting and reporting policies of the group are in agreement with legal requirements
    and agreed ethical practices and that the scope and planning of both the external and internal audits for the year
    ended 31 december 2016 were satisfactory and reinforce the group's internal control systems.

ÿ   we are satisfied that the bank has complied with the provisions of central bank of nigeria circular bsd/1/2004 dated 18
    february 2004 on "disclosure of insider related credits in the financial statements of banks". we hereby confirm that
    an aggregate amount of n7,279billion (31 december 2015: n12,898billion) was outstanding as at 31 december 2016 of
    which nil (31 december 2015: nil) was non performing.

ÿ   we have deliberated on the findings of the external auditors who have confirmed that necessary cooperation was
    received from management in the course of their statutory audit and we are satisfied with management's responses
    thereon and with the effectiveness of the group's system of accounting and internal control.




prince adekunle olodun*
chairman, audit committee
27, february, 2017




members of the audit committee are:

1. prince adekunle olodun                                   -   chairman
2. mr. anosike joe ogbonna                                  -   member
3. mr. kashimawo akanji taiwo                               -   member
4. mr. samuel durojaye                                      -   member
5. mr. adebode adefioye                                     -   member
6. mr. abubakar lawal                                       -   member

in attendance:

mr. wole ajimisinmi                                         -   secretary




*waiver granted by financial reporting council of nigeria




                                                                                         57 2016 annual report

independent auditors report
to the shareholders of wema bank plc


report on the audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements



opinion

we have audited the accompanying consolidated and separate financial statements of wema bank plc (the bank) and its

subsidiaries (together referred to as the group)which comprise the consolidated and separate statements of financial

position as at 31 december 2016, the consolidated and separate statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive

income, statements of changes in equity, consolidated and separate statements of cash flows for the year then ended, and

the notes to the consolidated and separate financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies.

in our opinion, the consolidated and separate financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial

position of wema bank plc as at 31 december 2016 and the consolidated and separate financial performance and

statement of cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the international financial reporting standards, the

companies and allied matters act cap c20 lfn 2004,banks and other financial institutions act cap b3 lfn 2004 and the

financial reporting council of nigeria act, 2011.



basis for opinion

we conducted our audit in accordance with international standards on auditing (isas). our responsibilities under those

standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated and separate financial

statements section of our report. we are independent of the group in accordance with the requirements of the institute of

chartered accountants of nigeria professional code of conduct and guide for accountants (ican code) and other

independence requirements applicable to performing audits of financial statements in nigeria. we have fulfilled our other

ethical responsibilities in accordance with the ican code and in accordance with other ethical requirements applicable to

performing audits in nigeria. the ican code is consistent with the international ethics standards board for accountants

code of ethics for professional accountants (parts a and b). we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is

sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.



key audit matters

key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the

consolidated and separate financial statements of the current year. these matters were addressed in the context of our

audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not

provide a separate opinion on these matters.




58 2016 annual report

                                                                        independent auditors report



key audit matter                                      how the matter was addressed in the audit


loan loss impairment

loans and advances make up a significant portion our audit procedures to assess the loan loss impairment
of the total assets of wema bank plc, with the total included the following:
risk assets portfolio of about n 227billion (note
18) representing about 54 % of the bank’s total       ·    we obtained an understanding of the controls in
assets.                                                    place by the client and determine whether these
                                                           controls have been appropriately designed and
wema bank plc has an impairment model that is              implemented?
applied to loans and advances. the methodology        ·    we assess the loan portfolio of the bank to
addresses the two types of impairments being               determine
specific and collective impairments.                  ·     the appropriateness of the impairment at the end
                                                           of the financial year by performing procedures
the bank determines collective impairment                  around the aging of the loan portfolio to determine
charges on loans and advances that are not                 whether the numbers used in the model is
assessed for individual impairment in accordance           appropriate.
with the requirement of ias 39–financial              ·    considered the appropriateness of the model and
instruments: recognition and measurement. the              methodology used by the bank and whether it is in
impairment model uses parameters for the                   line with the requirements of ias 39 with the
determination of capital related to credit risk i.e        assistance of an internal specialist.
probability of default (pd), loss given default
(lgd), emergence period (ep) , exposure at           for the collective impairment, the loan balances that fall
default(ead).                                        within this category were assessed by challenging the
                                                     probability of default (pd), loss given default (lgd) and
certain loans are further assessed for specific      emergence period (ep) used by the directors in
impairment.                                          determining the impairment.

specific impairment is calculated on significant      for specific impairments, we performed procedures to
loans that have been assessed and determined to       determine whether:
be individually impaired and these loans are not
collectively assessed for impairment.                     ·    the credit policy of the bank was appropriately
                                                               applied.
this is considered a key audit matter because it is       ·    only collaterals that has been legally
an area that involves significant estimates and                enforceable by the bank have been included.
judgement.                                                ·    the perfected/realizable collateral provided by
                                                               the customers are eligible and/or ineligible in
                                                               the evaluation of the estimated future cash
                                                               flows.

                                                      based on our review and the analysis of the bank’s
                                                      process, the methodology “ and assumptions” applied by
                                                      the bank, we reasonably concluded that these
                                                      assumptions appears reasonable.




                                                                                 59 2016 annual report

independent auditors report


  deferred taxation                                        the audit team obtained deferred tax calculation
                                                           prepared by the client and trace the financial position and
  deferred tax assets (as disclosed in note 24) have       profit or loss figures to the general ledger.
  been written down to n22billion in the current
  year to the extent that it is probable that future       we involved deloitte tax specialist to assess the
  potential tax deductions will be available to            recognition and measurement of the deferred tax assets
  realise the deferred tax asset.                          and liabilities. this included:
  as this required judgement from the directors in
  estimating future taxable income, deferred tax            ·     analysing the calculation for compliance with
  has been identified as a key audit matter.                      nigerian tax legislation.
                                                            ·     evaluating the directors’ assessment of the
                                                                  estimated manner in which the timing d ifferences,
                                                                  including the recoverability of the deferred tax
                                                                  assets, would be realized by comparing this to
                                                                  evidence obtained in respect of other areas of the
                                                                  audit, including cash flow forecasts, business plans,
                                                                  minutes of directors’ meetings and our know ledge
                                                                  of the business.

                                                           challenging the assumptions made by the directors for
                                                           uncertain deferred tax positions to assess whether
                                                           sufficient deferred tax provisions have been recognised
                                                           and are based on the most probable outcome. we test
                                                           checked the arithmetical accuracy of the client’s
                                                           calculations.

                                                           based on the audit procedures we concur with the
                                                           directors that it was appropriate to limit the deferred tax
                                                           asset recognized in the financial statements.




other information

the directors are responsible for the other information. the other information comprises the directors' report, audit
committee's report and company secretary's report, which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor's report, which is
expected to be made available to us after that date. the other information does not include the consolidated and separate
financial statements and auditor's report thereon.

our opinion on the consolidated and separate financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

in connection with our audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated and
separate financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.

based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor's report, if
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. we have
nothing to report in this regard.

responsibilities of the directors for the consolidated and separate financial statements

the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated and separate financial statements that give a true and
fair view in accordance with international financial reporting standards and the requirements of the companies and allied
matters act cap c20 lfn 2004,banks and other financial institutions act cap b3 lfn 2004,financial reporting council
act,2011 and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated
and separate financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

in preparing the consolidated and separate financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group's
and the bank's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using



60 2016 annual report

                                                                                  independent auditors report


the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group and the company or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

auditor's responsibilities for the audit of consolidated and separate financial statements

our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated and separate financial statements as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes
our opinion. reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with isas will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated and separate financial statements.

as part of an audit in accordance with isas, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism
throughout the audit. we also:

ÿ   identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated and separate financial statements, whether
    due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
    sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting
    from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
    misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.

ÿ   obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
    appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the group
    and the company's internal control.

ÿ   evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
    disclosures made by the directors.

ÿ   conclude on the appropriateness of the directors' use of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit
    evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists relating to events or conditions that may cast significant
    doubt on the group and bank's ability to continue as a going concern. if we conclude that a material uncertainty exists,
    we are required to draw attention in our auditor's report to the related disclosures in the consolidated and separate
    financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. our conclusions are based on the
    audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor's report. however, future events or conditions may cause the
    group and bank to cease to continue as a going concern.

ÿ   evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated and separate financial statements,
    including the disclosures, and whether the group and bank's financial statements represent the underlying
    transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

ÿ   obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
    within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated and separate financial statements. we are responsible for
    the direction, supervision and performance of the group's audit. we remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.

we communicate with the audit committee and the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.

we also provide the audit committee and directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

from the matters communicated with the audit committee and/or the directors, we determine those matters that were of
most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. we
describe these matters in our auditor's report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the benefits derivable from such
communication.




                                                                                            61 2016 annual report

independent auditors report



report on other legal and regulatory requirements

in accordance with the sixth schedule of companies and allied matters act cap c20 lfn 2004 we expressly state that:

i)      we have obtained all the information and explanation which to the best of our knowledge and believe were necessary
       for the purpose of our audit.

ii)    the group has kept proper books of account, so far as appears from our examination of those books.

iii)    the group and company's financial position and its statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income are in
        agreement with the books of account and returns.

ÿ      the bank has complied with the requirements of the relevant circulars issued by central bank of nigeria

ÿ      in accordance with circular bsd/1/2004 issued by the central bank of nigeria, details of insider-related credits are as
       disclosed in note 34.

during the year the bank contravened certain sections of bofia and cbn circulars/guidelines, the details of the
contravention and the related penalties are as disclosed in note 35 to the financial statements.




michael daudu, fca
frc/2013/ican/00000000845
for: akintola williams deloitte
chartered accountants
lagos, nigeria

31 march, 2017




62 2016 annual report

report of the external consultant
on the appraisal of the board of
directors of wema bank plc


in compliance with the central bank of nigeria (cbn) code of corporate governance for bank and discount house in nigeria
(”the cbn code”) and the securities and exchange commission (sec) code of corporate governance (”the sec code),
wema bank plc (”wema bank” or “the bank”) engaged kpmg advisory services to carry out an appraisal of the board of
directors (”the board”) for the year ended 31 december 2016. the cbn code mandates an annual appraisal of the board with
specific focus on the board’s structure, composition, responsibilities, processes and relationships, individual director
competencies and respective roles in the performance of the board.

corporate governance is the system by which business corporations are directed and controlled to enhance performance and
shareholder value. it is a system of checks and balances within the board, management and investors to produce a
sustainable corporation gear towards delivering long-term value.

our approach to the appraisal of the board involved a review of the bank’s key corporate governance structures, policies and
practices. this included the review of the corporate governance framework and representations obtained during one-on-one
interviews with the members of the board and management. we also reviewed the bank’s corporate governance report
prepared by the board and included in the annual report for the year ended 31 december 2016 and assessed the level of
compliance of the board with the cbn code and sec code.

on the basis of our review, except as noted below, the bank’s corporate governance practices are largely in compliance with
the key provisions of the cbn code and sec code. specific recommendations for further improving the bank’s governance
practices have been articulated and included in our detailed report to the board. these include recommendations in the
following areas: enhancements the process for monitoring implementation of board decisions, the whistle-blowing process
and evaluation of executive management.




tomi adepoju
partner, kpmg advisory services
frc/2015/nim/00000001185

13 march, 2017




                                                                                          63 2016 annual report

        04
       financial
statements and notes
    to the account

                                                                           financials & notes to the account



statement of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 december 2016


in thousands of nigerian naira                                                     group             bank           bank

                                                                              31-dec-16         31-dec-16      31-dec-15
interest income                                                       7       44,560,461        44,446,020     37,128,085
interest expense                                                             (25,910,283)      (25,765,627)   (19,408,466)
                                                                      7
net interest income                                                           18,650,178        18,680,393     17,719,619
net impairment write back/(loss) on financial assets                 11        (412,401)         (412,401)         77,640
net interest income after impairment charge for credit                        18,237,777        18,267,992     17,797,259
losses

net fee and commission income                                         8        6,190,739         6,190,739      5,605,197
net trading income                                                    9        2,123,108         2,123,108      1,781,836
other income                                                         10        1,486,942         1,486,942      1,276,683


                                                                               9,800,789         9,800,789      8,663,716
operating income                                                              28,038,566        28,068,781     26,460,975


personnel expenses                                                   12      (10,352,321)      (10,352,321)    (9,844,548)
depreciation and amortization                                      13 b       (2,308,497)       (2,308,497)    (2,250,024)
other operating expenses                                            13a      (12,132,603)      (12,131,598)   (11,374,945)
 profit before tax                                                             3,245,145         3,276,365      2,991,458
income tax expense                                                   28        (684,565)         (684,565)      (718,253)
profit for the year                                                            2,560,580         2,591,800      2,273,205
other comprehensive income, net of income tax

items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit
or loss
re-measurement of defined benefit obligation                                   (165,850)         (165,850)         54,070
items that will be subsequently reclassified to profit or
loss
fair value gain/(loss) on available-for-sale investments                           11,894           11,894        (31,815)

other comprehensive income for the year, net of income
tax                                                                            (153,956)         (153,956)         22,255
total comprehensive income for the year                                        2,406,624         2,437,844      2,295,460


profit attributable to:
equity holders of the bank                                                     2,560,580         2,591,800      2,273,205


total comprehensive income for the year                                        2,406,623         2,437,843      2,295,460


earnings per share-basic                                             14               6.6               6.7           5.9

 the notes on pages 71 to 165 are an integral part of these financial statements




                                                                                            65 2016 annual report

financials & notes to the account



statement of financial position
as at december 31, 2016


 statement of financial position
 as at 31 december, 2016
                                                       notes                   group          bank             bank
                                                                           31-dec-16      31-dec-16        31-dec-15
 in thousands of nigerian naira
 cash and cash equivalents                               15a               27,623,945     27,608,708       56,583,610
 restricted deposit with cbn                             15b               48,161,682     48,161,682       53,386,069
 pledged assets                                            16              16,419,725     16,419,725       16,455,942
 investment securities:
 available for sale                                      17a                3,158,208      3,159,208        7,630,131
 held for trading                                        17b                  238,036        238,036        4,688,492
 held to maturity                                         17c              58,679,662     55,871,354       28,788,648
 loans and advances to customers                           18             227,008,550    227,008,550      185,596,590
 investment properties                                     21                 361,798        361,798          393,547
 property and equipment                                    22              16,614,465     16,614,465       15,967,711
 intangible assets                                         23                 400,017        400,017          488,110
 other assets                                              25               3,207,791      3,207,791        4,194,762
 deferred tax assets                                       24              22,169,702     22,169,702       22,569,702
                                                                          424,043,581    421,221,036     396,743,314


 deposits from banks                                       26              37,433,906     37,433,906                 -
 deposits from customers                                   27             283,302,604    283,328,215      284,977,836
 current tax liabilities                                   28                 349,245        349,245          382,694
 other liabilities                                         29              22,392,756     22,324,495       12,949,273
 other borrowed funds                                      30              32,093,404     29,282,289       52,289,916
 obligations under finance lease                           31                     932            932           79,485
                                                                          375,572,847    372,719,082      350,679,204
 equity
 share capital                                             32              19,287,233     19,287,233       19,287,233
 share premium                                             32              48,870,107     48,870,107       48,870,107
 regulatory risk reserve                                                    8,402,592      8,402,592        3,644,042
 retained earnings                                         32             (39,158,766)   (39,127,546)     (36,017,406)
 other reserves                                                            11,069,568     11,069,568       10,280,134
 equity attributable to                                                    48,470,734     48,501,954       46,064,110
 equity holders of the bank
 total equity                                                              48,470,734     48,501,954      46,064,110
 total liabilities and equity                                             424,043,581    421,221,036     396,743,314



the notes on pages 71 to 165 are an integral part of these financial statements
the financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 3 march, 2017




       adeyinka asekun                                                                         segun oloketuyi
             chairman                                                                       managing director/ceo
  frc/2013/iod/00000003818                                                               frc/2013/ican/00000002099
                                                tunde mabawonku
                                                chief financial officer
                                              frc/2013/ican/00000002097




66 2016 annual report

                                                                                                                       financials & notes to the account




statement of changes in equity
as at december 31, 2016
group
in thousands of nigerian naira (000s)

                                                               share        share    regulatory     statutory    smeies        fair      retained          total

                                                              capital    premium     risk reserve     reserve    reserve      value       earnings       equity
                                                                                                                           reserves
2016

balance at 1 january 2016                                  19,287,233   48,870,107     3,644,042     9,558,428   526,908    194,798    (36,017,406)   46,064,110
total comprehensive income:

profit or loss                                                      -            -                           -         -                 2,560,580     2,560,580

other comprehensive income

re-measurement of defined benefit obligation                                                                                              (165,850)    (165,850)

fair value reserve (available-for-sale) financial assets            -            -              -            -         -     11,894               -      11,894

total other comprehensive income                                    -            -                           -         -     11,894       (165,850)    (153,956)



total comprehensive income for the period                  19,287,233   48,870,107     3,644,042     9,558,428   526,908    206,692    (33,622,676)   48,470,734



transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity

contributions by and distributions to owners

regulatory risk reserve                                                                4,758,550                                        (4,758,550)            -
                                                                    -            -                          -          -          -
transfer to statutory reserve                                       -            -             -      777,540          -          -      (777,540))            -
total contribution and distributions to owners                      -            -     4,758,550      777,540          -          -     (5,536,090)            -



balance at 31 december 2016                                19,287,233   48,870,107     8,402,592    10,335,968   526,908    206,692    (39,158,766)   48,470,734




                                                                                                                                  67    2016 annual report

financials & notes to the aaccount

    statement of changes in equity
    as at december 31, 2016
    company
    in thousands of nigerian naira (000s)
                                                                                                                                   fair
                                                                   share        share     regulatory    statutory     smeies      value      retained         total
                                                                  capital    premium     risk reserve     reserve    reserve   reserves      earnings        equity
    2015
    balance at 1 january 2015                                  19,287,233   48,870,107       791,206     8,860,245   526,908    226,613    (34,793,662)   43,768,650
    total comprehensive income:
    profit or loss                                                      -            -                           -         -                 2,273,205     2,273,205
    other comprehensive income
    re-measurement of defined benefit obligation                                                                                                54,070        54,070
    fair value reserve (available-for-sale) financial assets            -            -                           -         -    (31,815)             -      (31,815)
    total other comprehensive income                                    -            -                           -         -    (31,815)        54,070        22,255

    total comprehensive income for the period                  19,287,233   48,870,107       791,206     8,860,245   526,908   194,798     (32,466,387)   46,064,110
    transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
    contributions by and distributions to owners
    regulatory risk reserve                                                                2,852,836                                        (2,852,836)            -
    transfer to statutory reserves                                                                        698,183                             (698,183)            -
    total contribution and distributions to owners                      -            -     2,852,836      698,183          -           -    (3,551,019)            -

    balance at 31 december 2015                                19,287,233   48,870,107     3,644,042     9,558,428   526,908    194,798    (36,017,406)   46,064,110

    2016
    balance at 1 january 2016                                  19,287,233   48,870,107     3,644,042     9,558,428   526,908    194,798    (36,017,406)   46,064,110
    total comprehensive income:
    profit or loss                                                      -            -                           -         -                 2,591,800     2,591,800
    other comprehensive income
    re-measurement of defined benefit obligation                                                                                              (165,850)    (165,850)
    fair value reserve (available-for-sale) financial assets            -            -                           -         -     11,894               -       11,894

    total other comprehensive income                                    -            -                           -         -     11,894       (165,850)    (153,956)

    total comprehensive income for the period                  19,287,233   48,870,107     3,644,042     9,558,428   526,908    206,692    (33,591,457)   48,501,954
    transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
    contributions by and distributions to owners
    regulatory risk reserve                                                                4,758,550                                        (4,758,550)            -
    transfer to statutory reserve                                                                         777,540                             (777,540)
    total contribution and distributions to owners                      -            -     4,758,550      777,540          -           -    (5,536,090)            -

    balance at 31 december 2016                                19,287,233   48,870,107     8,402,592    10,335,968   526,908    206,692    (39,127,546)   48,501,954



    68 2016 annual report

                                                                      financials & notes to the account



statement of prudential adjustments
as at december 31, 2016

                                                                            group             bank        bank
                                                                         31-dec-16        31-dec-16   31-dec-15

impairment - ifrs
loans and advances:


 - collective                                                              696,370          696,370   1,098,416
 - specific                                                               2,136,061       2,136,061   1,327,916


                                                                          2,832,431       2,832,431   2,426,332
other financial assets:
 - long term investments                                                          -               -           -
 - other assets                                                           3,694,646       3,694,646   3,637,495


                                                                          3,694,646       3,694,646   3,637,495


total                                                                     6,527,077       6,527,077   6,063,826


impairment - prudential guidelines
loans and advances:


- general                                                                 4,363,818       4,363,818   3,153,562
- specific                                                                6,871,205       6,871,205   2,916,812


                                                                         11,235,023      11,235,023   6,070,374

other financial assets:


- long term investments                                                           -               -           -
- other assets                                                            3,694,646       3,694,646   3,637,495


                                                                          3,694,646       3,694,646   3,637,495


total                                                                    14,929,669      14,929,669   9,707,869




                                                                          8,402,592       8,402,592   3,644,042
excess of prudential impairment over ifrs impairment transferred to
regulatory reserve




                                                                                      69 2016 annual report

financials & notes to the account



statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 december 2016
                                                                           group              bank             bank
in thousands of nigerian naira                           notes       31 december       31 december      31 december
                                                                            2016              2016             2015
cash flows from operating activities
profit for the year                                                      2,560,580        2,591,800        2,273,205
adjustments for:
taxation expense                                            28             684,565           684,565          718,253
depreciation and amortization                                            2,308,498         2,308,498        2,250,025
adjustment for transfer out of ppe now expensed                              5,459             5,459            28,365
adjustment amortisation write back                                                                            (95,521)
(gain)/loss on disposal of property and equipment           10               (4,029)          (4,029)            3,429
benefit in kind                                                               20,317           20,317                -
specific provision on cash                                 15,a              (9,407)          (9,407)               86
net interest income                                                    (18,650,178)     (18,680,393)     (17,719,619)
dividend received from equity investment                                    (27,448)         (27,448)         (56,057)
impairment loss on financial assets                                         590,783          590,783          (77,640)
                                                                       (12,520,861)     (12,519,856)     (12,675,474)
change in pledged assets                                                      36,217           36,217       9,319,709
change in loans and advances to customers                              (41,818,059)     (41,818,059)     (36,225,101)
change in other assets                                                      819,440          819,440       15,369,072
change in deposits from banks                               26           37,433,906       37,433,906      (3,243,218)
changes in interest payable on bank takings                                        -                                 -
change in restricted deposit with cbn                                     5,224,387        5,224,387                 -
change in deposits from customers                                       (1,675,232)      (1,649,621)       26,021,358
change in other liabilities                                               9,320,681        9,252,420      (4,555,839)
                                                                        (3,179,521)      (3,221,165)      (5,989,493)
income tax paid                                             28            (318,014)        (318,014)        (274,095)
interest received                                                        44,560,461      44,446,020        37,128,085
vat paid                                                                  (121,600)        (121,600)        (235,035)
interest paid                                                         (25,037,469))    (24,892,813))     (15,953,189)
net cash from operating activities                                      15,903,857       15,892,427       14,676,273
cash flows from investing activities
net disposal of investment securities-htm                             (29,891,014)      (27,082,706)        8,701,283
acquisition of investment securities-afs                                 4,483,817         4,482,817      (6,015,940)
change in trading assets                                                 4,450,456         4,450,456      (2,580,090)
adjustment to fair value loss/gain                                               -                 -          (31,815)
dividend received from equity investment                                    27,448            27,448            56,057
acquisition of property and equipment                       22         (2,841,744)       (2,841,744)      (3,438,952)
proceeds from sale of associate                                                                    -        2,964,626
proceeds from the sale of property and equipment                            31,031            31,031            26,364
proceeds from the sale of investment property                               24,099            24,099
acquisition of intangible assets                                           (87,696)          (87,696)      (380,899)
net cash used in investing activities                                 (23,803,603)      (20,996,295)       (699,366)
cash flows from financing activities
change in other borrowed funds                                        (20,196,512)      (23,007,627)      (6,091,812)
interest paid on cbn financial accommodation loan            7            (872,814)         (872,814)     (3,455,277)
net cash from financing activities                                    (21,069,326)      (23,880,441)      (9,547,089)
net increase in cash and cash equivalents                             (28,969,072)      (28,984,309)        4,429,818
cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                        56,593,017        56,593,017       52,163,199
cash and cash equivalents at end of period                  15          27,623,945        27,608,708      56,593,017



the notes on pages 71 to 165 are an integral part of these financial statements




70 2016 annual report

notes to the financial
statements
1   reporting entity

    wema bank plc (the "bank") is a company domiciled in nigeria. the address of the bank's registered office is 54
    marina, lagos, nigeria. the bank is primarily involved in investment, corporate, commercial and retail banking. the
    bank has a wholly owned subsidiary which is wema bank funding spv plc.

1.1 going concern

    the bank received its national banking license from central bank of nigeria in november 2015 and now operates as
    a national bank as against its previous status as a regional bank.

    based on the current capitalization position of the bank, the directors expects the bank to continue as a going
    concern, realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.

    accordingly, the financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.

2   basis of preparation

    (a) statement of compliance

         the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards
         (ifrs) issued by the international accounting standards board (iasb) and adopted by the financial reporting
         council of nigeria for the financial year starting from 1 january,2014.

         the financial statements comply with the requirement of the companies and allied matters act cap c20 lfn
         2004.

         the bank and other financial institutions act cap b3 lfn 2004 and the guidelines issued by the central bank
         of nigeria to the extent that they are not in conflict with the international financial reporting standards.

         the financial statements were authorized for issue by the board of directors on 3 march, 2016

    (b) functional and presentation currency

         these financial statements are presented in nigerian naira, which is the group's functional currency. except
         otherwise indicated, financial information presented in naira have been rounded to the nearest thousand.

    (c) basis of measurement

         these financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for available-for-sale financial
         assets and derivative instruments which are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.

         available for sale financial assets that cannot be measured reliably are measured at cost less impairment.
         non-derivative financial instruments at measured at fair value through profit or loss. financial assets and
         liabilities held for trading are measured at fair value.




                                                                                      71 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

    (d) use of estimates and judgements

         the preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with ifrs requires management to make
         judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported
         amounts of assets and liabilities, incomes and expenses. the estimates and associated assumptions are
         based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the
         circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments about carrying values of assets
         and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these
         estimates.

         estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. revisions to accounting estimates
         are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.

         judgements made by management in the application of ifrss that have significant effect on the financial
         statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment are discussed in note 4.

    (e) basis of consolidation

         the consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the bank and its subsidiary
         (wema bank funding spv plc). the subsidiary is controlled by the bank. control is the power to govern the
         financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. total comprehensive
         income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the bank. when necessary, adjustments are made to the
         financial statements of subsidiary to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the group

         the wholly owned subsidiary was incorporated in nigeria on the 30th of june, 2016 (registration number
         1345745) as a public limited company under the name of wema bank funding spv plc. the special purpose
         vehicle carries on business at wema towers, 54 marina, lagos. it has no subsidiary or affiliate. it was
         established as a special purpose vehicle for the purpose of issuing bonds to fund working capital, enhance
         liquidity and enhance its capital base of the bank.

         all intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.




3   significant accounting policies

         the accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all periods presented in these
         financial statements.

    (a) business combination

         business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is
         the date on which control is transferred to the bank. control is the power to govern the financial and
         operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. in assessing control, the bank takes
         into consideration potential voting rights that currently are exercisable.

         the bank measures goodwill at the acquisition date as the total of:

         ÿ the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
         ÿ the recognized amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus, if the business combination
            is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquire; less
         ÿ the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
            assumed.

         when this total is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss. the bank
         elects on a transaction-by-transaction basis whether to measure non-controlling interest at its fair value, or
         at its proportionate share of the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets, at the acquisition date. the
         consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the settlement of pre-existing relationships.




72 2016 annual report

                                                                          notes to the financial statements


          such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss. transactions costs related to the acquisition, other
          than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the bank incurs in connection with a
          business combination are expensed as incurred. any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair
          value at the acquisition date. if the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not re-measured
          and settlement is accounted for within equity. otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the
          contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.

    (b) foreign currency

    the financial statements are presented in nigerian naira, which is the bank's functional and reporting currency.
    transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rates effective at the date of the
    transaction. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting date are adjusted
    to the functional currency at the spot exchange rates effective at the reporting date. the foreign currency gain or
    loss on monetary items is the difference between the amortised cost in the functional currency at the beginning of
    the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the period, and the amortised cost in the foreign
    currency translated at the exchange rate effective on the reporting date. non-monetary assets and liabilities
    denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the
    exchange rate effective at the date that the fair value is determined. foreign exchange differences arising on
    translation are recognised in profit or loss.

(c) interest

    interest income and expense are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. the effective
    interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments and receipts through the
    expected life of the financial asset or liability (or, where appropriate, a shorter period) to the carrying amount of
    the financial asset or liability. when calculating the effective interest rate, the bank estimates future cash flows
    considering all contractual terms of the financial instruments but not future credit losses.

    the calculation of the effective interest rate includes contractual fees, transaction costs and points paid or received
    and discounts or premiums that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. transaction costs include
    incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial asset or liability.

    interest income and expense presented in the statement of comprehensive income include:

    · interest on financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortised cost calculated on an effective interest
    rate basis.
    · interest on available-for-sale investment securities calculated on an effective interest basis
    · the effective portion of fair value changes in qualifying hedging derivatives designated in cash flow hedges of
    variability in interest cash flows, in the same period that the hedged cash flows affect interest income/expense
    · fair value changes in qualifying derivatives, including hedge ineffectiveness, and related hedge items in fair value
    hedges of interest rate risk.

    interest income and expense on all trading assets and liabilities are considered to be incidental to the banks
    trading operations and are presented together with all other changes in the fair value of trading assets and
    liabilities in net trading income.

    fair value changes on other derivatives held for risk management purposes, and other financial assets and
    liabilities carried at fair value through profit or loss, are presented in net trading income from other financial
    instruments at fair value through profit and loss in the statement of comprehensive income.

(d) fees and commission

    fees and commission income and expenses that are integral to the effective interest rate on a financial asset or
    liability are included in the measurement of the effective interest rate.

    other fees and commission income, including account servicing fees, investment management and other
    fiduciary activity fees, sales commission, placement fees and syndication fees, are recognised as the related




                                                                                           73 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


     services are performed. when a loan commitment is not expected to result in the draw-down of a loan, loan
     commitment fees are recognised on a straight-line basis over the commitment period.

    other fees and commission expense relates mainly to transaction and service fees, which are expensed as the
    services are received.

(e) net trading income

    net trading income comprises gains less losses related to trading assets and liabilities, and includes all realised and
    unrealised fair value changes, dividend and foreign exchange differences.

(f) dividend income
      dividend income is recognised when the right to receive income is established. usually this is the ex-dividend date
      for equity securities. dividends on trading equities are reflected as a component of net trading income or other
      operating income based on the underlying classification of the equity investment. dividend income on available-
      for-sale securities are recognised as a component of other operating income.

(g) leases

    lease payments

    payments made under operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the
    lease. lease incentives received are recognised as an integral part of the total lease expense, over the term of the
    lease.

    minimum lease payments made under finance leases are apportioned between the finance expense and the
    reduction of the outstanding liability. the finance expense is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to
    produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.

    contingent lease payments are accounted for by revising the minimum lease payments over the remaining term of
    the lease when the lease adjustment is confirmed.

    leased assets – lessee

    leases in terms of which the bank assumes substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are
    classified as finance leases. upon initial recognition the leased asset is measured at an amount equal to the lower
    of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments.

    subsequent to initial recognition, the asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting policy applicable to
    that asset.

    assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as assets of the bank at their fair value at the inception of
    the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. the corresponding liability to the lessor
    included in the statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.

    lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve
    aconstant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.

    assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned
    assets.

    however, when there is no reasonable certainty that ownership will be obtained by the end of the
    lease term, assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.
    other leases are operating leases and, except for investment property, the leased assets are not recognised in the




74 2016 annual report

                                                                            notes to the financial statements


    bank's statement of financial position.

    bank as the lessor

    when acting as lessor under finance lease, the present value of the minimum lease payments discounted at the
    rate of interest implicit in the lease is recognized as a receivable. the difference between the total payments
    receivable under a finance lease and the present value of the receivable is recognised as an unearned income, and
    subsequently recorded as finance income over the life of the lease. finance charges earned are computed using
    effective interest method which reflects a constant periodic return on the investment in the finance lease. initial
    direct costs paid are capitalized to the value of the lease amounts receivable and accounted for over the lease term
    as an adjustment to the effective rate of return.

(h) taxation

    income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or
    loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income.

    (i) current tax

    current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or
    substantively enacted at the financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous
    years. current tax payable also includes any tax liability arising from the declaration of dividends

    (ii) deferred tax

    deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
    liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. deferred tax is not
    recognised for:

          ÿ temporary differences on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business
               combination and that affects either neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss;
          ÿ temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will
               not reverse in the foreseeable future; and
          ÿ taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill


    the measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow the manner in which the bank
    expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
    deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they
    reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
    deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and
    assets, and they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax
    entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will
    be realised simultaneously.

    additional taxes that arise from the distribution of dividend by the bank are recognised at the same time as the
    liability to pay the related dividend is recognised.

    a deferred tax asset is recognised for unused tax losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences to the
    extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which it can be utilised.

    deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
    that the related tax benefit will be realised.

    (i)   financial assets and liabilities
           (i) recognition

          the bank initially recognises loans and advances, deposits; debt securities issued and subordinated liabilities
          on the date that they are originated. regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on




                                                                                              75 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


          the trade date at which the bank commits to purchase or sell the assets. all other financial assets and
          liabilities (including assets and liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss) are initially
          recognised on the trade date at which the bank becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the
          instrument. a financial asset or financial liability is measured initially at fair value. for an item not at fair value
          through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issue are recognised
          as part of the initial cost of financial asset or liability.

     (ii) classification
     the bank classifies its financial assets in one of the following categories:

           ÿ loans and receivables;
           ÿ held to maturity;
           ÿ available-for-sale; or
           ÿ at fair value through profit or loss and within the category as:
           ÿ
     – held for trading; or
     – designated at fair value through profit or loss.

     see notes 3(l), (m) and (n).

     the bank classifies its financial liabilities, other than financial guarantees and loan commitments, as measured at
     amortised cost or fair value through profit or loss. see notes 3(i), (r) and (t).

(iii) de-recognition

     the bank derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or
     when it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cashflows in a transaction in which substantially all the risks
     and rewards of ownership of the financial assets are transferred or in which the bank neither transfers nor retains
     substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and it does not retain control of the financial asset. any interest
     in transferred financial assets that qualify for derecognition that is created or retained by the bank is recognised as
     a separate asset or liability in the statement of financial position. on derecognition of a financial asset, the
     difference between the carrying amount of the asset (or the carrying amount allocated to the portion of the asset
     transferred), and the sum of (i) the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability
     assumed) and (ii) any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income is
     recognised in profit and loss.

     the bank enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognised on its financial position, but retains either
     all or substantially all of the risks and rewards of the transferred assets or a portion of them. if all or substantially all
     risks and rewards are retained, then the transferred assets are not derecognised from the financial position.
     transfers of assets with retention of all or substantially all risks and rewards include, for example, securities
     lending and repurchase transactions.

     when assets are sold to a third party with a concurrent total rate of return swap on the transferred assets, the
     transaction is accounted for as a secured financing transaction similar to repurchase transactions as the bank
     retains all or substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of such assets.

     in transactions in which the bank neither retains nor transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership
     of a financial asset and it retains control over the asset, the bank continues to recognise the asset to the extent of
     its continuing involvement, determined by the extent to which it is exposed to changes in the value of the
     transferred asset.

     in certain transactions the bank retains the obligation to service the transferred financial asset for a fee. the
     transferred asset is derecognised if it meets the derecognition criteria. an asset or liability is recognised for the
     servicing contract, depending on whether the servicing fee is more than adequate (asset) or is less than adequate
     (liability) for performing the servicing.

     the bank derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged or cancelled or expired.




76 2016 annual report

                                                                         notes to the financial statements



    (iv) offsetting

    financial assets and liabilities are set off and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position
    when, and only when, the bank has a legal right to set off the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or
    to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

    income and expenses are presented on a net basis only when permitted under ifrss, or for gains and losses
    arising from a group of similar transactions such as in the bank's trading activity.

(v) sale and repurchase agreements

    securities sold subject to repurchase agreements ('repos') remain on the statement of financial position; the
    counterparty liability is included in amounts due to other banks, deposits from banks, other deposits or deposits
    due to customers, as appropriate. securities purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repos') are recorded
    as money market placement. the difference between sale and repurchase price is treated as interest and accrued
    over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method.

    securities lent to counterparties are also retained in the financial statements. securities borrowed are not
    recognised in the financial statements, unless these are sold to third parties, in which case the purchase and sale
    are recorded with the gain or loss included in trading income.

(vi) amortised cost measurement

    the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability is the amount at which the financial asset or liability is measured
    at initial recognition, minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective
    interest method of any difference between the initial amount recognised and the maturity amount, minus any
    reduction for impairment.

(vii) fair value measurement

    fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable,
    willing parties in an arm's length transaction on the measurement date. when available, the bank measures the
    fair value of an instrument using quoted prices in an active market for that instrument. a market is regarded as
    active if quoted prices are readily available and represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on
    an arm's length basis.

    if a market for a financial instrument is not active, the bank establishes fair value using a valuation technique.
    valuation techniques include using recent arm's length transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties (if
    available), reference to the current fair value of other instruments that are substantially the same, and discounted
    cash flow analysis. the chosen valuation technique makes maximum use of market inputs, relies as little as
    possible on estimates specific to the bank, incorporates all factors that market participants would consider in
    setting a price, and is consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments. inputs
    to valuation techniques reasonably represent market expectations and measures of the risk return factors
    inherent in the financial instrument. the bank calibrates valuation techniques and tests them for validity using
    prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument or based on other available
    observable market data.

    the best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument at initial recognition is the transaction price – i.e. the
    fair value of the consideration given or received. however, in some cases, the fair value of a financial instrument
    on initial recognition may be different to its transaction price. if such fair value is evidenced by comparison with
    other observable current market transactions in the same instrument (without modification or repackaging) or
    based on a valuation technique whose variables include only data from observable markets, then the difference is
    recognised in profit or loss on initial recognition of the instrument. in other cases, the difference is not recognised
    in profit or loss immediately but is recognised over the life of the instrument on an appropriate basis or when the
    instrument is redeemed, transferred or sold, or the fair value becomes observable.




                                                                                          77 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

     assets and long positions are measured at a bid price; liabilities and short positions are measured at an asking
     price. where the bank has positions with offsetting risks, mid-market prices are used to measure the offsetting
     risk positions and a bid or asking price adjustment is applied only to the net open position as appropriate. fair
     value reflects the credit risk of the instrument and includes adjustments to take account of the credit risk of the
     bank and the counterparty where appropriate. fair value estimates obtained from models are adjusted for any
     other factors, such as liquidity risk or model uncertainties; to the extent that the bank believes a third-party
     market participant would take this into account in pricing a transaction.

(viii) identification and measurement of impairment

     at each reporting date the bank assesses whether there is objective evidence that financial assets not carried at
     fair value through profit or loss are impaired. financial assets are impaired when objective evidence
     demonstrates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event has an
     impact on the future cash flows on the asset that can be estimated reliably.

     objective evidence that financial assets (including equity securities) are impaired can include significant financial
     difficulty of the obligor, default or delinquency by a borrower resulting in a breach of contract, restructuring of a
     loan or advance by the bank on terms that the bank would not otherwise consider, indications that a borrower or
     issuer will enter bankruptcy, the disappearance of an active market for a security, or other observable data
     relating to a group of assets such as adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers or issuers in the group, or
     economic conditions that correlate with defaults in the group. in addition, for an investment in an equity security,
     a significant or prolonged decline in its fair value below cost is objective evidence of impairment.

     the bank considers evidence of impairment for loans and advances and held-to-maturity investment securities at
     both a specific asset and collective level. all individually significant loans and advances and held-to-maturity
     investment securities are assessed for specific impairment. all individually significant loans and advances and
     held-to-maturity investment securities found not to be specifically impaired are then collectively assessed for any
     impairment that has been incurred but not yet identified. loans and advances and held-to-maturity investment
     securities that are not individually significant are collectively assessed for impairment by grouping together loans
     and advances and held-to-maturity investment securities with similar risk characteristics.

     in assessing collective impairment, the bank uses statistical modelling of historical trends of the probability of
     default, the timing of recoveries and the amount of loss incurred, adjusted for management's judgement as to
     whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or less than
     suggested by historical trends. probability of default and the expected timing of future recoveries are regularly
     benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure that they remain appropriate.

     impairment losses on available-for-sale investment securities are recognised by transferring the difference
     between the amortised acquisition cost and current fair value out of equity to profit or loss.

     impairment losses on assets carried at amortised cost are measured as the difference between the carrying
     amount of the financial assets and the present value of estimated cash flows discounted at the assets' original
     effective interest rate. losses are recognised in profit or loss.

     if the terms of a financial asset are renegotiated or modified or an existing financial asset is replaced with a new
     one due to financial difficulties of the borrower, then an assessment is made whether the financial asset should be
     derecognised. if the cash flows of the renegotiated asset are substantially different, then the contractual rights to
     cash flows from the original financial asset are deemed to have expired. in this case the original financial asset is
     derecognised and the new financial asset is recognised at fair value.

(ix) designation at fair value through profit or loss

     the bank designates financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss in the following
     circumstances:

          ÿ the assets or liabilities are managed, evaluated and reported internally on a fair value basis.
          ÿ the designation eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
          ÿ the asset or liability contains an embedded derivative that significantly modifies the cash flows that would
           otherwise be required under the contract.



78 2016 annual report

                                                                          notes to the financial statements


    the impairment loss is measured as follows:

         ÿ if the expected restructuring does not result in derecognition of the existing asset, the estimated cash flows
           arising from the modified financial asset are included in the measurement of the existing asset based on
           their expected timing and amounts discounted at the original effective interest rate of the existing financial
           asset.
         ÿ if the expected restructuring results in derecognition of the existing asset, then the expected fair value of
           the new asset is treated as the final cash flow from the existing financial asset at the time of its
           derecognition. this amount is discounted from the expected date of derecognition to the reporting date
           using the original effective interest rate of the existing financial asset.

    impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss and reflected in an allowance account against loans and
    advances or held-to-maturity investment securities. interest on the impaired assets continues to be recognised
    through the unwinding of the discount. when an event occurring after the impairment was recognised causes the
    amount of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.

    if, in a subsequent period, the fair value of an impaired available-for-sale debt security increases and the increase
    can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit and loss, the
    impairment loss is reversed, with the amount of the reversal recognised in profit and loss. however, any
    subsequent recovery in the fair value of an impaired available-for-sale equity security is recognised in other
    comprehensive income.

    the bank writes off certain loans and advances and investment securities when they are determined to be
    uncollectible.

    the amount of each class of financial asset or liability that has been designated at fair value through profit or loss
    will be set out in a note. a description of the basis for each designation is set out in the note for the relevant asset or
    liability class.

(x) derivative financial assets

    derivatives are recognised initially, and are subsequently re-measured, at fair value. fair values of exchange-traded
    derivatives are obtained from quoted market prices. fair values of over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using
    valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.

    derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
    derivative assets and liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset where there is a legal right of
    offset of the recognised amounts and the parties intend to settle the cash flows on a net basis, or realize the asset
    and settle the liability simultaneously.

    the method of recognizing fair value gains and losses depends on whether derivatives are held for trading or are
    designated as hedging instruments, and if the latter, the nature of the risks being hedged.

    all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading are recognised in the income
    statement.

(xi) embedded derivatives

    hybrid contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative component. in such cases, the derivative
    component is termed an embedded derivative. where the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded
    derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contract, and the host contract itself is not carried at fair value
    through profit or loss, the embedded derivative is bifurcated and measured at fair value with gains and losses being
    recognised in the income statement.

    (j) cash and cash equivalents

    cash and cash equivalents include notes and coins on hand, unrestricted balances held with central banks and




                                                                                            79 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


    highly liquid financial assets with original maturities of less than three months, which are subject to insignificant
    risk of changes in their fair value, and are used by the bank in the management of its short-term commitments.

    cash and cash equivalents are carried at amortised cost in the statement of financial position.

    (k) trading assets and liabilities

    trading assets and liabilities are those assets and liabilities that the bank acquires or incurs principally for the
    purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term, or holds as part of a portfolio that is managed together for
    short-term profit or position taking.

    trading assets and liabilities are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value in the statement of
    financial position with transaction costs taken directly to profit or loss. all changes in fair value is recognised as part
    of net trading income in profit or loss. trading assets and liabilities are not reclassified subsequent to their initial
    recognition, except that non-derivative trading assets, other than those designated at fair value through profit or
    loss on initial recognition may be reclassified out of fair value through profit or loss i.e. trading category if they are
    no longer held for the purpose of being sold or repurchased in the near term and the following conditions are met:

         ÿ if the financial asset would have met the definition of loans and receivables (if the financial asset had not
           been required to be classified as held for trading at initial recognition), then it may be reclassified if the
           bank has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
         ÿ if the financial asset would not have met the definition of loans and receivable, then it may be reclassified
           out of the trading category only in rare circumstances.

(l) loans and advances

    loans and advances are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted
    in an active market and that the bank does not intend to sell immediately or in the near term. when the bank is the
    lessor in a lease agreement that transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an
    asset to the lessee, the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a receivable equal to the net investment in
    the lease and recognised and presented within loans and advances.

    when the bank purchases a financial asset and simultaneously enters into an agreement to resell the asset (or a
    substantially similar asset) at a fixed price on a future date ("reverse repo or stock borrowing"), the arrangement is
    accounted for as a loan or advance, and the underlying asset is not recognised in the bank's financial statements.

    loans and advances are initially measured at fair value plus incremental direct transaction costs, and
    subsequently measured at their amortised cost using the effective interest method.

(m) investment securities

    investment securities are initially measured at fair value plus, in case of investment securities not at fair value
    through profit or loss, incremental direct transaction costs and subsequently accounted for depending on their
    classification as either held for trading, held-to-maturity, fair value through profit or loss or available-for-sale.

    (i) held-to-maturity

    held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity
    that the bank has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity, and which are not designated at fair value
    through profit or loss or available-for-sale.

    held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any
    impairment losses. any sale or reclassification of a significant amount of held-to-maturity investments not close to
    their maturity would result in the reclassification of all held-to-maturity investments as available-for- sale, and
    prevent the bank from classifying investment securities as held-to-maturity for the current and the following two
    financial years.




80 2016 annual report

                                                                           notes to the financial statements


     however, sales and reclassifications in any of the following circumstances would not trigger a reclassification:
     · sales or reclassification that are so close to maturity that changes on the market rate of interest would not have a
     significant effect on the financial asset's fair value.

           ÿ sales or reclassification after the bank has collected substantially all the asset's original principal.
           ÿ sales or reclassification attributable to non-recurring isolated events beyond the bank's control that could
              not have been reasonably anticipated.

(ii) fair value through profit or loss

     the bank designates some investment securities at fair value with fair value changes recognised immediately in
     profit or loss as described in accounting policy i (ix).

(iii) available-for-sale

     available-for-sale investments are non-derivative investments that are not designated as another category of
     financial assets. available for sale investments comprise equity securities and debt securities. unquoted equity
     securities whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost. all other available-for-sale investments
     are carried at fair value.

     interest income is recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. dividend income is recognised in
     profit or loss when the bank becomes entitled to the dividend. foreign exchange gains or losses on available-for-
     sale debt security investments are recognised in profit or loss. impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.

     other fair value changes other than impairment losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and
     presented in the fair value reserve in equity until the investment is sold whereupon the cumulative gains and losses
     previously recognised in other comprehensive income are recognised to profit or loss as a reclassification
     adjustment.

     a non-derivative financial asset may be reclassified from the available-for-sale category to the loans and receivable
     category if it otherwise would have met the definition of loans and receivables and if the bank has the intention and
     ability to hold that financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.

(n) investment properties

     investment properties are properties held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but
     not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or for
     administrative purposes. the bank holds some investment property as a consequence of the ongoing
     rationalisation of its retail branch network. other property has been acquired through the enforcement of security
     over loans and advances. investment property is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment
     losses in line with the cost model in ias 16. cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition
     of the investment property.

(o) property and equipment

     (i) recognition and measurement

     items of property and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
     cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. the cost of self-constructed
     assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the assets to
     a working condition for their intended use, the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site
     on which they are located, where the bank has an obligation to remove the asset or restore the site and capitalised
     borrowing costs. purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as
     part of equipment.

     when parts of an item of property or equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate
     items (major components) of property and equipment.




                                                                                            81 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements




     (ii) subsequent costs

     the cost of replacing part of an item of property or equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is
     probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the bank and its cost can be
     measured reliably. the carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. the costs of the day-today servicing
     of property and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

     (iii) depreciation

     depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis to write down the cost of each asset, to their
     residual values over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property and equipment. leased assets
     under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives. depreciation begins
     when an asset is available for use and ceases at the earlier of the date that the asset is derecognised or classified as
     held for sale in accordance with ifrs 5. a non-current asset or disposal group is not depreciated while it is classified
     as held for sale

    land is not depreciated. the estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:

    buildings                          50 years
    leasehold properties               over the lease period
    furniture and fittings             5 years
    equipment and machinery            5 years
    computer equipment                 4 years
    motor vehicles                     4 years
    work in progress                   not depreciated

    assets that are subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. an asset's carrying amount is written down immediately
    to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. the
    recoverable amount is the higher of the asset's value less costs to sell or the value in use.

    depreciation methods, useful lives and residual value are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if
    appropriate.

    (iv) de-recognition

    an item of property and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected
    from its use or disposal. any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference
    between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in profit or loss in the year the
    asset is derecognised.

(p) intangible assets

    (i) software

    software acquired by the bank is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment
    losses.

    expenditure on internally developed software is recognised as an asset when the bank is able to demonstrate its
    intention and ability to complete the development and use the software in a manner that will generate future
    economic benefits, and can reliably measure the costs to complete the development. the capitalised costs of
    internally developed software include all costs directly attributable to developing the software, and are amortised
    over its useful life. internally developed software is stated at capitalised cost less accumulated amortisation and
    impairment.

    subsequent expenditure on software assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits
    embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. all other expenditure is expensed as incurred.




82 2016 annual report

                                                                           notes to the financial statements


     amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software,
     from the date that it is available for use since this most closely reflects the expected pattern of consumption of the
     future economic benefits embodied in the asset. the estimated useful life of software is shorter of 3 years or the
     contractual licensing period.

     amortisation method, useful lives, and residual values are reviewed at each financial year-end and adjusted if
     appropriate.

(q) impairment of non-financial assets

     the carrying amounts of the bank's non-financial assets other than investment property and deferred tax assets
     are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. if any such
     indication exists, then the asset's recoverable amount is estimated.

     an impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. the
     recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. in assessing value
     in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that
     reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

     impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss
     has decreased or no longer exists. an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used
     to determine the recoverable amount. an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset's carrying
     amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or
     amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.

(r) deposits and subordinated liabilities

     deposits and subordinated liabilities are the bank's sources of debt funding. when the bank sells a financial asset
     and simultaneously enters into a "repo" or "stock lending" agreement to repurchase the asset (or a similar asset) at
     a fixed price on a future date, the arrangement is accounted for as a deposit, and the underlying asset continues to
     be recognised in the bank's financial statements.

     the bank classifies capital instruments as financial liabilities or equity instruments in accordance with the
     substance of the contractual terms of the instrument.

     deposits and subordinated liabilities are initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs, and subsequently
     measured at their amortised cost using the effective interest method, except where the bank chooses to carry the
     liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.

(s) provisions

     a provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the bank has a present legal or constructive obligation that
     can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the
     obligation. provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects
     current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
     the unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost.

     (i) restructuring

     a provision for restructuring is recognised when the bank has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan,
     and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly. future operating costs are not
     provided for.

     (ii) onerous contracts

     a provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the bank from a
     contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. the provision is
     measured at the present value of the lower of the expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net
     cost of continuing with the contract. before a provision is established, the bank recognises any impairment loss on



                                                                                             83 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


    the assets associated with that contract.

(t) financial guarantees

    financial guarantees are contracts that require the bank to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a
    loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt
    instrument. financial guarantee liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value, and the initial fair value is
    amortised over the life of the financial guarantee. the guarantee liability is subsequently carried at the higher of
    this amortised amount and the present value of any expected payment (when a payment under the guarantee has
    become probable). financial guarantees are included within other liabilities.

(u) employee benefits

    (i) defined contribution plans

    a defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into
    a separate entity and has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.

    obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as personnel expenses in profit
    or loss when they are due in respect of service rendered before the end of the reporting period.

    prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments
    is available. contributions to a defined contribution plan that is due more than 12 months after the end of the
    reporting period in which the employees render service are discounted to their present value at the reporting date.
    the bank operates a funded, defined contribution pension scheme for employees in nigeria. obligations in respect
    of the bank's contributions to the scheme are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account on an annual
    basis. the employee and the bank contribute 7.5% and 17.5% of basic salary, housing, luncheon and transport
    allowance respectively to each employee's retirement savings account maintained with their nominated pension
    fund administrators.

    (ii) termination benefits

    termination benefits are recognised as an expense when the bank is demonstrably committed, without realistic
    possibility of withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to terminate employment before the normal retirement date.
    termination benefits for voluntary redundancies are recognised if the bank has made an offer encouraging
    voluntary redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted, and the number of acceptances can be
    estimated reliably. if benefits are payable more than 12 months after the reporting period, then they are
    discounted to their present value.

    (iii) short-term employee benefits

    short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related
    service is provided.

    a liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if
    the bank has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the
    employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

    (iv) long term employee benefit- staff gratuity scheme

    the bank operates a defined benefit pension plan, which requires provisions to be made to a separately unfunded
    plan. the cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit
    method.

    remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts
    included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts
    included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the statement of
    financial position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through oci in the period in which they




84 2016 annual report

                                                                             notes to the financial statements


     occur. remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.

    past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on the earlier of:

           ÿ the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and
           ÿ the date that the bank recognises related restructuring costs


    actuarial valuation computation was carried out on members (excluding directors) in the staff gratuity scheme for
    the financial years ended 31 december 2015 and 31 december 2016under the international accounting standard
    19 revised.

    the most recent actuarial valuation of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were
    carried out at 31 december, 2016 by bestwole developments limited.

    the present values of the defined benefit obligation and the related current service cost and past service cost were
    measured using the projected unit credit method.

    the principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows:

                                                                                                    31 december, 2016

    discount rate                                                                                                  16%
    expected rate of salary increase                                                                               13%
    average longevity at retirement age for current pensioners (years)                                              nil
    males                                                                                                           nil
    females                                                                                                         nil
    average longevity at retirement age for current employees (future pensioners)                       55years (years)
    males                                                                                                          562
    females                                                                                                         449
    others (described)                                                                                             n/a



                                                                      group                 bank                    bank
                                                                  31-dec-16           31-dec-16               31-dec-17
 current service cost                                                 82,494               82,494              166,424
 past service cost                                                   352,076           352,076                       -
 total current service cost                                          434,570           434,570                 166,424
 interest cost                                                        65,925               65,925              142,748
 interest income                                                     (49,061)           (49,061)              (150,190)
                                                                     451,434           451,434                 158,982



ias revised amendments and actuarial basis

the projected unit credit method, as required by ias 19, has been used to carry out the valuation exercise.
the amendments specified in the ias 19 revised have been reflected in the report:

recognition of actuarial gains and losses (re measurements)
ÿ all actuarial gains and losses are recognized in full in the year in which they arise in the statement of other
   comprehensive income

recognition of past service cost/ curtailment
ÿ the past service cost under the plan's amendment was recognized in the year of occurrence


measurement of pension expense
ÿ the plan is funded as at 31 december, 2016. the net benefit cost (interest cost) has been computed on the defined
  benefit obligation




                                                                                        85 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements



presentation in the income statement
ÿ under the plan the net benefit cost comprises the service cost and past service cost


disclosure requirements
ÿ the gratuity plan operates under a defined benefit arrangement. the employer pays benefits for the members on a
   pay as you go basis. members don't bear any financial risk on funding. the employer bears all financial risks under
   the plan.

distinction between short term and long term benefits
ÿ short term benefits are considered under the plan. payments are settled within 12 calendar months.
ÿ treatment of expenses and taxes relating to employee benefits
ÿ under the plan, the defined benefits obligations are not taxable.


risk or cost sharing features
ÿ the plan is wholly funded by the employer. the employees do not contribute to plan's funding
ÿ sensitivity analysis
ÿ tables of sensitivity analysis showing impact on the defined benefit obligations and benefit costs if each of the
   financial assumptions vary by -1% or +1% are provided herein

description of the benefits valued
we have summarized the benefits valued in the present valuation exercise as follows.

eligibility for membership
to be eligible for membership, one has to be an employee of the bank who has completed any probationary period of
employment.

gratuity computations
benefits payable to a member depends on the “gratuity emolument” and the completed years of service spent as at
the member's exit date.

gratuity emolument
gratuity emolument has been defined as sum of the monthly basic salary, monthly housing allowance, monthly
transport allowance and monthly luncheon allowance for the members.

gratuity benefits
gratuity payment will be on the basis of percentage upward movement from 50% monthly total emolument multiplied
by length of service at 5 years of service up to a maximum of 100% at 10 years of service and beyond.

scale of gratuity benefits
based on the description of gratuity benefits, we have shown in the table below, the analysis of benefits computations


completed years of service                                                                            gratuity benefit
less than 5                                                                                                        nil
5                                                                                         50% of monthly emolument *5
6                                                                                         60% of monthly emolument *6
7                                                                                         70% of monthly emolument *7
8                                                                                         80% of monthly emolument *8
9                                                                                         90% of monthly emolument *9
10 and above                                                                            100% of monthly emolument *10




86 2016 annual report

                                                                            notes to the financial statements


appendix 2 - summary of active membership data
as at 31 december, 2016

    age band                                              count                                     total annual emolument

    21 – 25                                                    8                                                    12,162,932
    26 – 30                                                   97                                                   152,394,971
    31 – 35                                                  313                                                   606,786,495
    36 – 40                                                  308                                                   865,029,364
    41 – 45                                                  208                                                   985,986,672
    46 – 50                                                   58                                                   426,972,280
    51 – 55                                                   17                                                   134,679,341
    above 55                                                   2                                                    60,579,780
    total                                                   1011                                                 3,244,591,835



valuation method
in accordance with ias 19, the bank has adopted the projected unit credit method, using first principles, to establish the
values of the accrued liabilities.

in calculating the liabilities, the method:

ÿ     recognizes the company service rendered by each member of staff at review date
ÿ     anticipates that salaries will increase between the review date and the anticipated exit date of member
ÿ     discount the expected benefit payments to the review date

under the projected unit method, the liability accrues uniformly whilst the member is in service; the liability is divided into
two parts for each serving member namely:

ÿ     the accrued past service liability based on service rendered as at valuation date and
ÿ     the future service liability in respect of future service.

the "defined benefit obligation" under this method of valuation is the present value of all accrued benefits as at the
valuation date by reference to all years of service up to that date, but computed on projected final total emoluments.

the “asset ceiling” is the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions
in future contributions to the plan

the "current service cost" is the value of benefits acquired by service rendered in the review year. it is the projected
contributions for the year, using the valuation assumptions. these projected benefits are then discounted to the valuation
date at the discounting rate adopted for the valuation.

ÿ     the "interest cost" is the expected increase in liability values in the course of the review year.
ÿ     the "expected return on plan assets" is the expected increase in asset values after allowing for expected increase in
      benefit payments during the year.
ÿ     the 'actuarial (gains)/losses' represent the changes in benefit obligations or fair value of assets arising from changes
      in actuarial valuation assumptions or actual experience deferring from expectation.
ÿ     while ignoring any gains/losses, the employer's net annual cost is the current service cost plus the interest cost minus
      expected return on any planned assets.

(v) contingent liabilities and contingent assets

a contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the bank or the bank
has a present obligation as a result of past events which is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of
resources will be required to settle the obligation; or the amount cannot be reliably estimated.

contingent liabilities normally comprise of legal claims under arbitration or court process in respect of which a liability is not
likely to crystallise.

a contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the bank. contingent



                                                                                              87 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

assets are never recognised rather they are disclosed in the financial statements when an inflow of economic benefit is
probable.

(w) share capital and reserves

     (i) share issue costs
     incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of an equity instrument are deducted from the initial measurement
     of the equity instruments.

     (ii) dividend on the bank's ordinary shares
          dividend on the bank's ordinary shares are recognised in equity when approved by the bank's shareholders.

(x) earnings per share

    the bank presents basic earnings per share (eps) for its ordinary shares. basic eps is calculated by dividing the profit or
    loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the bank by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
    during the period. diluted eps is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and
    the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.

(y) segment reporting

     an operating segment is a component of the bank that engages in business activities from which it can earn revenues
     and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the bank's other
     components, whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the executive management committee to make
     decisions about resources allocated to each segment and assess its performance and for which discrete financial
     information is available.

(z) non-current assets held for sale
     non-current assets and disposal group are classified as held for sale of their carrying amount will be recovered
     principally through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use.
         this condition is regarded as met only when the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its
     present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such asset (or disposal group) and its
     sale is highly probable. management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for
     recognition as a completed sale within one year from date of classification. non-current assets (and disposal group)
     classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.

     (aa) related party transactions
     transactions with related parties are conducted and recorded at arm's length and disclosed in accordance with ias 24
     "related party disclosures".

     (ab) application of new and revised international financial reporting standards (ifrss)

     1.1 new and revised ifrss/ifrics affecting amounts reported and/or disclosures in these financial statements

     in the current year, the group has applied a number of amendments to ifrss issued by the international accounting
     standards board (iasb) that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1st january
     2016.

     amendments to ifrs 10. ifrs 12 and las 28 investment entities: applying the consolidation exception
     the group has applied these amendments for the first time in the current year. the amendments clarify that the
     exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements is available to a parent entity that is a subsidiary of an
     investment entity, even if the investment entity measures all its subsidiaries at fair value in accordance with ifrs 10.
     the amendments also clarify that the requirement for an investment entity to consolidate a subsidiary providing
     services related to the former's investment activities applies only to subsidiaries that are not investment entities
     themselves.
     the application of these amendments has had no impact on the group's consolidated financial statements as the
     group is not an investment entity and does not have any holding company, subsidiary, associate or joint venture that
     qualifies as an investment entity.




88 2016 annual report

                                                                     notes to the financial statements



amendments to ifrs 11 accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations

the group has applied these amendments for the first time in the current year. the amendments provide guidance on
how to account for the acquisition of a joint operation that constitutes a business as defined in ifrs 3 business
combinations. specifically, the amendments state that the relevant principles on accounting for business
combinations in ifrs 3 and other standards should be applied. the same requirements should be applied to the
formation of a joint operation if and only if an existing business is contributed to the joint operation by one of the
parties that participate in the joint operation.

a joint operator is also required to disclose the relevant information required by ifrs 3 and other standards for
business combinations.

the application of these amendments has had no impact on the group's consolidated financial statements as the
group did not have any such transactions in the current year.

amendments to ias 1 disclosure initiative

the group has applied these amendments for the first time in the current year. the amendments clarify that an entity
need not provide a specific disclosure required by an ifrs if the information resulting from that disclosure is not
material and give guidance on the bases of aggregating and disaggregating information for disclosure purposes.
however, the amendments reiterate that an entity should consider providing additional disclosures when compliance
with the specific requirements in ifrs is insufficient to enable users of financial statements to understand the impact
of particular transactions, events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance.

in addition, the amendments clarify that an entity's share of the other comprehensive income of associates and joint
ventures accounted for using the equity method should be presented separately from those arising from the group
and should be separated into the share of items that, in accordance with other ifrss: (i) will not be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss; and (ii) will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are
met.

as regards the structure of the financial statements, the amendments provide examples of systematic ordering or
grouping of the notes.

the application of these amendments has not resulted in any impact on the financial performance or financial
position of the group.

amendments to ias 16 and ias 38 clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation

the group has applied these amendments for the first time in tne current year. the amendments to ias 16 prohibit
entities from using a revenue-based depreciation method for items of property, plant and equipment. the
amendments to ias 38 introduce a rebuttable presumption that revenue is not an appropriate basis
for amortisation of an intangible asset. this presumption can only be rebutted in the following two limited
circumstances:

a)   when the intangible asset is expressed as a measure of revenue; or
b)   when it can be demonstrated that revenue and consumption of the economic benefits ofthe intangible asset are
     highly correlated.

as the group already uses the straight line method for depreciation and amortisation for its property, plant and
equipment and intangible assets respectively, the application of these amendments has had no impact on the
group's consolidated financial statements.

amendments to ias 16 and ias 41 agriculture: bearer plants

the group has applied these amendments for the first time in the current year. the amendments define a bearer
plant and require biological assets that meet the definition of a bearer plant to be accounted for as property, plant and
equipment in accordance with ias 16, instead of ias 41. the produce growing on bearer plants continues to be
accounted for in accordance with ias 41.




                                                                                      89 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


        the application of these amendments has had no impact on the group's consolidated financial statements as the
        group is not engaged in agricultural activities.

        annual improvements to ifrss 2012-2014 cycle

        the group has applied these amendments for the first time in the current year. the annual improvements to ifrss
        2012-20/4 cycle include a number of amendments to various ifrss, which are summarised below.

        the amendments to ifrs 5 introduce specific guidance in ifrs 5 for when an entity reclassifies an asset (or disposal
        group) from held for sale to held for distribution to owners (or vice versa). the amendments clarify that such a change
        should be considered as a continuation of the original plan of disposal and hence requirements set out in ifrs 5
        regarding the change of sale plan do not apply. the amendments also clarify the guidance for when held-for-
        distribution accounting is discontinued.

        the amendments to ifrs 7 provide additional guidance to clarify whether a servicing contract is continuing
        involvement in a transferred asset for the purpose of the disclosures required in relation to transferred assets.

        the amendments to ias 19 clarify that the rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations should be
        determined by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds. the
        assessment of the depth of a market for high quality corporate bonds should be at the currency level (i.e. the same
        currency as the benefits are to be paid). for currencies for which there is no deep market in such high quality corporate
        bonds, the market yields at the end of the reporting period on government bonds denominated in that currency
        should be used instead.


    ifrs 9                                                                          financial instruments2
    ifrs 15                                                                         revenue from contracts with customers2
    ifrs 16                                                                         leases3
    amendments to ifrs 2                                                            classification and measurement of share-based transactions2
                                                                                    sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or
    amendments to ifrs 10 and ias 28
                                                                                    joint venture4
    amendments ias 7                                                                disclosure initiative1

    amendments to ias 12                                                            recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses1

1
  effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 january 2017, with earlier application permitted.
2
  effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 january 2018, with earlier application permitted.
3
  effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 january 2019, with earlier application permitted.
4
  effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date to be determined.



ifrs 9 financial instruments

(effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 january 2018)
in july 2014, the iasb finalised the reform of financial instruments accounting and issued ifrs 9 (as revised in 2014), which
contains the requirements for a) the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, b)
impairment methodology and c) general hedge accounting. ifrs 9 (as revised in 2014) will supersede ias 39 financial
instruments: recognition and measurement upon its effective date.

phase 1: classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities

with respect to the classification and measurement, the number of categories of financial assets under ifrs 9 has been
reduced; all recognised financial assets that are currently within the scope of ias 39 will be subsequently measured at
either amortised cost or fair value under ifrs 9. specifically:

ÿ a debt instrument that (i) is held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows and (ii)
       has contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding must
       be measured at amortised cost (net of any write down for impairment), unless the asset is designated at fair value
       through profit or loss (fvtpl) under the fair value option.
ÿ       a debt instrument that (i) is held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual
       cash flows and selling financial assets and (ii) has contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
       are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding, must be measured at fvtoci, unless
       the asset is designated at fvtpl under the fair value option.




90 2016 annual report

                                                                             notes to the financial statements


ÿ all other debt instruments must be measured at fvtpl.
ÿ all equity investments are to be measured in the statement of financial position at fair value, with gains and losses
    recognised in profit or loss except that if an equity investment is not held for trading, an irrevocable election can be
    made at initial recognition to measure the investment at fvtoci, with dividend income recognised in profit or loss.

ifrs 9 also contains requirements for the classification and measurement of financial liabilities and derecognition
requirements. one major change from ias 39 relates to the presentation of changes in the fair value of a financial liability
designated as at fvtpl attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability. under ifrs 9, such changes are presented in
other comprehensive income, unless the presentation of the effect of the change in the liability's credit risk in other
comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. changes in fair value attributable
to a financial liability's credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. under ias 39, the entire amount of the
change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as fvtpl is presented in profit or loss.

phase 2: impairment methodology

the impairment model under ifrs 9 reflects expected credit losses, as opposed to incurred credit losses under ias 39.
under the impairment approach in ifrs 9, it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses
are recognised. instead, an entity always accounts for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses.
the amount of expected credit losses should be updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial
recognition
.
phase 3: hedge accounting

the general hedge accounting requirements of ifrs 9 retain the three types of hedge accounting mechanisms in ias 39.
however, greater flexibility has been introduced to the types of transactions eligible for hedge accounting, specifically
broadening the types of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial
items that are eligible for hedge accounting. in addition, the effectiveness test has been overhauled and replaced with the
principle of an 'economic relationship'. retrospective assessment of hedge effectiveness is no longer required. far more
disclosure requirements about an entity's risk management activities have been introduced.

the work on macro hedging by the iasb is still at a preliminary stage - a discussion paper was issued in april 2014 to gather
preliminary views and direction from constituents with a comment period which ended on 17 october 2014. the project is
under deliberation at the time of writing.

transitional provisions

ifrs 9 (as revised in 2014) is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 january 2018 with earlier application
permitted. if an entity elects to apply ifrs 9 early, it must apply all of the requirements in ifrs 9 at the same time, except for
those relating to:

     1.    the presentation of fair value gains and losses attributable to changes in the credit risk of financial liabilities
           designated as at fvtpl, the requirements for which an entity may early apply without applying the other
           requirements in ifrs 9; and
     2.     hedge accounting, for which an entity may choose to continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of
           ias 39 instead of the requirements of ifrs 9.

an entity may early apply the earlier versions of ifrs 9 instead of the 2014 version if the entity's date of initial application of
ifrs 9 is before 1 february 2015. the date of initial application is the beginning of the reporting period when an entity first
applies the requirements of ifrs 9.

ifrs 9 contains specific transitional provisions for i) classification and measurement of financial assets; ii) impairment of
financial assets; and iii) hedge accounting.




                                                                                               91 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements



the directors of the company anticipate that the application of ifrs 9 in the future may have a material impact on amounts
reported in respect of the group's financial assets and financial liabilities. however, it is not practicable to provide a
reasonable estimate of the effect of ifrs 9 until the group undertakes a detailed review.

ifrs 15 revenue from contracts with customers

in may 2014, ifrs 15 was issued which establishes a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for
revenue arising from contracts with customers. ifrs 15 will supersede the current revenue recognition guidance including
ias 18 revenue, ias 11 construction contracts and the related interpretations when it becomes effective.

the core principle of ifrs 15 is that an entity should recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services
to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those
goods or services. specifically, the standard introduces a 5-step approach to revenue recognition:




                                                                                                                 step 5:
                                                                                       step 4:
           step 1:                   step 2:                                                                     recognise
                                                              step 3:                  allocate the
           identify the              identify the                                                                revenue
                                                              determine                transaction
           contract(s)               performance                                                                 when (or as)
                                                              the                      price to the
           with a                    obligations in                                                              the entity
                                                              transaction              performance
           customer                  the contract                                                                satisfies a
                                                              price                    obligations in
                                                                                                                 performance
                                                                                       the contract
                                                                                                                 obligation



under ifrs 15, an entity recognises revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied, i.e. when 'control' of the
goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. far more prescriptive
guidance has been added in ifrs 15 to deal with specific scenarios. furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by ifrs
15.

the directors of the company do not anticipate that the application of ifrs 15 will have a material impact on the group's
consolidated financial statements.

ifrs 16 leases

ifrs 16 introduces a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and accounting treatments for
both lessors and lessees. ifrs 16 will supersede the current lease guidance including ias 17 leases and the related
interpretations when it becomes effective. ifrs 16 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an
identified asset is controlled by a customer. distinctions of operating leases (off balance sheet) and finance leases (on
balance sheet) are removed for lessee accounting and is replaced by a model where a right-to-use asset and a
corresponding liability have to be recognised for all leases by lessees (i.e. all on balance sheet) except for short-term leases
and leases of low value assets.

the right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost (subject to certain exceptions) less
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. the lease liability
is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. subsequently, the lease
liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others.
furthermore, the classification of cash flows will also be affected as operating lease payments under ias 17 are presented
as operating cash flows; whereas under the ifrs 16 model, the lease payments will be split into a principal and an interest
portion which will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively.

in contrast to lessee accounting. ifrs 16 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in ias 17 and
continues to require a lessor to classify a lease either as an operating lease or a finance lease.

furthermore, extensive disclosures are required by ifrs 16.

as at 31 december 2016, the group has non-cancellable operating lease commitments of 0.932 miliion. ias 17 does not
require the recognition of any right-of-use asset or liability for future payments for these leases; instead, certain
information is disclosed as operating lease commitments in note 31. a preliminary assessment indicates that these



92 2016 annual report

                                                                            notes to the financial statements


arrangements will meet the definition of a lease under ifrs 16 and hence the group will recognise a right-of-use asset and a
corresponding liability in respect of all these leases unless they qualify for low value or short-term leases upon the
application of ifrs 16. the new requirement to recognlse a right-of-use asset and a related lease liability is expected to have
a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the group's consolidated financial statements and the directors are
currently assessing its potential impact. it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the financial effect until the
directors complete the review.

in contrast, for finance leases where the group is a lessee, as the group has already recognised an asset and a related
finance lease liability for the lease arrangement and in cases where the group is a lessor (for both operating and finance
leases), the directors of the company do not anticipate that the application of ifrs 16 will have a significant impact on the
amounts recognised in the group's consolidated financial statements.

amendments to ifrs 2 classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions

the amendments clarify the following:

      1. in estimating the fair value of a cash-settled share-based payment, the accounting for the effects of vesting and
         non-vesting conditions should follow the same approach as for equity-settled share-based payments.

      2. where tax law or regulation requires an entity to withhold a specified number of equity instruments equal to the
         monetary value of the employee's tax obligation to meet the employee's tax liability which is then remitted to the
         tax authority, i.e. the share-based payment arrangement has a 'net settlement feature', such an arrangement
         should be classified as equity-settled in its entirety, provided that the share-based payment would have been
         classified as equity-settled had it not included the net settlement feature.

      3. a modification of a share-based payment that changes the transaction from cash-settled to equity-settled should
         be accounted for as follows:

           i)   the original liability is derecognised;
           ii)  the equity-settled share-based payment is recognised at the modification date fair value of the equity
                instrument granted to the extent that services have been rendered up to the modification date; and
           iii) any difference between the carrying amount of the liability at the modification date and the amount
                recognised in equity should be recognised in profit or loss immediately.

the amendments are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 january 2018 with earlier application
permitted. specific transition provisions apply. the directors of the company do not anticipate that the application of the
amendments in the future will have a significant impact on the group's consolidated financial statements as the group
does not have any cash-settled share-based payment arrangements or any withholding tax arrangements with tax
authorities in relation to share-based payments.

amendments to 'ifrs 10 and ias 28 sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint
venture

the amendments to ifrs 10 and ias 28 deal with situations where there is a sale or contribution of assets between an
investor and its associate or joint venture. specifically, the amendments state that gains or losses resulting from the loss of
control of a subsidiary that does not contain a business in a transaction with an associate or a joint venture that is
accounted for using the equity method, are recognised in the parent's profit or loss only to the extent of the unrelated
investors' interests in that associate or joint venture. similarly, gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of
investments retained in any former subsidiary (that has become an associate or a joint venture that is accounted for using
the equity method) to fair value are recognised in the former parent's profit or loss only to the extent of the unrelated
investors' interests in the new associate or joint venture.

the effective date of the amendments has yet to be set by the iasb; however, earlier application of the amendments is
permitted. the directors of the company anticipate that the application of these amendments may have an impact on the
group's consolidated financial statements in future periods should such transactions arise.

amendments to ias 7 disclosure initiative

the amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in
liabilities arising from financing activities. the amendments apply prospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1
january 2017 with earlier application permitted.




                                                                                              93 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements



the directors of the company do not anticipate that the application of these amendments will have a material impact on the
group's consolidated financial statements.

amendments to ias 12 recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses

the amendments clarify the following:

     1. decreases below cost in the carrying amount of a fixed-rate debt instrument measured at fair value for which the
        tax base remains at cost give rise to a deductible temporary difference, irrespective of whether the debt
        instrument's holder expects to recover the carrying amount of the debt instrument by sale or by use, or whether it
        is probable that the issuer will pay all the contractual cash flows;
     2. when an entity assesses whether taxable profits will be available against which it can utilise a deductible
        temporary difference and the tax law restricts the utilisation of losses to deduction against income of a specific
        type (e.g. capital losses can only be set off against capital gains), an entity assesses a deductible temporary
        difference in combination with other deductible temporary differences of that type, but separately from other
        types of deductible temporary differences;
     3. the estimate of probable future taxable profit may include the recovery of some of an entity's assets for more than
        their carrying amount if there is sufficient evidence that it is probable that the entity will achieve this; and
     4. in evaluating whether sufficient future taxable profits are available, an entity should compare the deductible
        temporary differences with future taxable profits excluding tax deductions resulting from the reversal of those
        deductible temporary differences.

the amendments apply retrospectively for annual periods beginning on or after 1st january 2017 with earlier application
permitted.

the directors of the company do not anticipate that the application of these amendments will have a material impact on the
group's consolidated financial statements
.

4(a) key sources of estimation uncertainty

     (i) allowances for credit losses

     assets accounted for at amortised cost are evaluated for impairment on the basis described in accounting policy i
     (viii).

     the specific counterparty component of the total allowances for impairment applies to claims evaluated individually
     for impairment and is based upon management's best estimate of the present value of the cash flows that are
     expected to be received. in estimating these cash flows, management makes judgements about a counter party's
     financial situation and the net realisable value of any underlying collateral. each impaired asset is assessed on its
     merit and the workout strategy and estimate of cash flows considered recoverable are independently approved by
     the credit risk function.

     collectively assessed impairment allowances cover credit losses inherent in portfolios of claims with similar
     economic characteristics when there is objective evidence to suggest that they contain impaired claims, but the
     individual impaired items cannot yet be identified. in assessing the need for collective loan loss allowances,
     management considers factors such as credit quality, portfolio size, concentrations and economic factors. in order to
     estimate the required allowance, assumptions are made to define the way interest losses are modeled and to
     determine the required input parameters, based on historical experience and current economic conditions. the
     accuracy of the allowances depends on how well these estimated future cash flows for specific counterparty
     allowances and the model assumptions and parameters used in determining collective allowances are made.

     (ii) determining fair values

     the determination of fair value for financial assets and liabilities for which there is no observable market price
     requires the use of techniques as described in accounting policy i (viii). for financial instruments that trade
     infrequently and have little price transparency, fair value is less objective and requires varying degrees of judgement
     depending on liquidity, concentration, uncertainty of market factors, pricing assumptions and other risks affecting
     the specific instrument.




94 2016 annual report

                                                                              notes to the financial statements


(b) critical accounting judgements made in applying the group's accounting policies include:

     (i) valuation of financial instruments

     the group's accounting policy on fair value measurements is discussed under note i (viii)
     the group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs
     used in making the measurements:

     level 1: quoted market price (unadjusted) in an active market for an identical instrument.

     level 2: valuation techniques based on observable inputs, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e., derived
     from prices). this category includes instruments valued using: quoted market prices in active markets for similar
     instruments; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are considered less than active; or
     other valuation techniques where all significant inputs are directly or indirectly observable from market data.

     level 3: valuation techniques using significant unobservable inputs. this category includes all instruments where the
     valuation technique includes inputs not based on observable data and the unobservable inputs could have a
     significant effect on the instrument's valuation. this category includes instruments that are valued based on quoted
     prices for similar instruments where significant unobservable adjustments or assumptions are required to reflect
     differences between the instruments.

     the table below analyses financial instruments measured at fair value at the end of the reporting period, by the level
     in the fair value hierarchy into which the fair value measurement is categorised:

    group
    in thousands of nigerian naira

    31 december 2016                                                    level 1        level 2         level 3        total
    trading assets                                                     238,036               -               -      238,036
    investment securities                                            3,017,863        140,345                -    3,158,208
                                                                     3,255,899        140,345                -    3,396,244

    bank
    31 december 2016                                                    level 1         level 2        level 3         total
    trading assets                                                     238,036               -                -     238,036
    investment securities                                            3,017,863        140,345                 -   3,158,208
                                                                     3,255,899        140,345                 -   3,396,244


     31 december 2015                                                    level 1         level 2       level 3         total
     trading assets                                                   4,688,492                  -           -     4,688,492
     investment securities                                            7,494,721         135,410              -     7,630,131
                                                                    12,183,213          135,410              -    12,318,623


    (ii)   financial asset and liability classification

    the bank's accounting policies provide scope for assets and liabilities to be designated on inception into different
    accounting categories in certain circumstances:

    details of the group's classification of financial assets and liabilities are given in note 6.

    (iii) depreciation and carrying value of property and equipment

    the estimation of the useful lives of assets is based on management's judgement. any material adjustment to the
    estimated useful lives of items of property and equipment will have an impact on the carrying value of these items.

    (iv) determination of impairment of property and equipment and intangible assets

    management is required to make judgements concerning the cause, timing and amount of impairment. in the
    identification of impairment indicators, management considers the impact of changes in current competitive
    conditions, cost of capital, availability of funding, technological obsolescence, discontinuance of services and other
    circumstances that could indicate that impairment exists. the bank applies the impairment assessment to its
    separate cash generating units. this requires management to make significant judgements and estimates concerning


                                                                                                 95 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


      the existence of impairment indicators, separate cash generating units, remaining useful lives of assets, projected
      cash flows and net realisable values. management's judgement is also required when assessing whether a previously
      recognised impairment loss should be reversed.

      (v) determination of recognised deferred tax balances

       management is required to make judgements concerning the recoverability of unused tax losses. judgement is
       required in determining the estimated future profitability from which tax assets are expected to be realised.

5.    operating segments

      the group, which has a national authorization, has six reportable geographical segments, which are the group's
      strategic zones. the strategic zones offer different products and services and are managed separately based on the
      bank's management and internal reporting structure. for each of the strategic zones, the bank's management
      reviews internal management reports on a monthly basis.

      segment information is presented in respect of the group's geographic segments which represents the primary
      segment reporting format and is based on the group's management and reporting structure.


geographical segments

the bank operates in four geographical regions; south-west, south-south, abuja and lagos zones:

(i) group


 31-dec-16


in thousands of nigerian naira            south-west         south-south          abuja           lagos           total




derived from external customers              9,262,200          1,882,429      2,832,119      39,972,100     53,948,848

interest and similar expenses                4,229,903          1,026,909      1,767,715      18,885,756     25,910,283

operating income                             5,032,297            855,520      1,064,404      21,086,344     28,038,565

operating expenses                           4,482,814            544,811        729,158      19,036,637     24,793,420

profit on ordinary activities before
                                              549,483             310,709        335,246       2,049,707       3,245,145
taxation

income tax expense                           (115,914)            (65,544)       (70,720)      (432,387)       (684,565)


profit on ordinary activities after
                                              433,569             245,165        264,526       1,617,320       2,560,580
taxation


assets and liabilities:

total assets                              105,022,650          16,417,446     21,086,127     281,517,358    424,043,581

total liabilities                         136,870,176          21,359,359     26,212,303     191,131,009    375,572,847

net asset                                 (31,847,526)         (4,941,913)    (5,126,176)     90,386,349     48,470,734




96 2016 annual report

                                                                          notes to the financial statements

(ii)    bank


 in thousands of nigerian naira          south-west       south-south              abuja                 lagos          total



 derived from external customers           9,262,200         1,882,429          2,832,119           39,857,659     53,834,407

 interest and similar expenses             4,229,903         1,026,909          1,761,658           18,747,157     25,765,627

 operating income                          5,032,297           855,520          1,070,461           21,110,502     28,068,780

 operating expenses                        4,482,814           544,811            729,158           19,035,632     24,792,415

 profit on ordinary activities before        549,483           310,709            341,303            2,074,870      3,276,364
 taxation


 income tax expense                         (114,809)          (64,920)           (71,312)                           (684,565)
                                                                                                      (433,524)
 profit/ (loss) on ordinary activities       434,674           245,789            269,991            1,641,346      2,591,800
 after taxation


 assets and liabilities:

 total assets                            105,022,650        16,417,446         21,086,128          278,694,814    421,221,037

 total liabilities                       136,870,176        21,359,359         26,212,303          188,277,245    372,719,083

 net asset                               (31,847,526)       (4,941,913)        (5,126,176)          90,417,569     48,501,954




(iii)   bank


 31 december 2015

 in thousands of nigerian naira          south-west     south-south             abuja                 lagos             total


 derived from external customers          11,469,455      3,196,566         5,097,939             26,105,481       45,869,441
 derived from other segments                       -              -                 -        -             -                -

 total revenues                           11,469,455      3,196,566         5,097,939             26,105,481       45,869,441


 interest and similar expenses             3,599,742        930,149         2,968,282             11,910,293       19,408,466


 operating income                          7,869,713      2,266,417         2,129,657             14,195,188       26,460,975


 operating expenses                        7,409,329      1,857,100         1,810,712             12,338,306       23,415,446

 profit on ordinary activities before
 taxation income tax expense                 460,384        409,317           318,945              1,802,812        2,991,458

 income tax expense                        (106,431)        (97,248)          (75,575)             (438,999)        (718,253)

 profit on ordinary activities after
 taxation                                    353,953        312,069           243,370              1,363,813        2,273,205


 assets and liabilities:
 total assets                             65,472,523     12,070,645        17,165,779            302,034,367      396,743,314

 total liabilities                        84,508,674     14,392,826        24,057,379            227,720,325      350,679,204


 net asset                               (19,036,151)    (2,322,181)       (6,891,600)            74,314,042       46,064,110




                                                                                             97 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements




6     financial assets and liabilities

accounting classification, measurement basis and fair values
the table below sets out the bank's classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values

group




        in thousands of nigerian naira
                                                                                                  loans and
                                                                       at fair                   receivables
                                                                        value                             at                        other          other          total
                                                                     through        held-to-      amortised      available-      amortised      financial      carrying
                                                                          p/l       maturity            cost       for sale           cost     liabilities     amount       fair value
(a)     31 december 2016
        cash and cash equivalents                       15                    -              -               -               -    27,623,945             -    27,623,945    27,623,945
        pledged assets                                  16                    -    16,419,725                -               -             -             -    16,419,725    16,049,228
        loans and advances to customers                 18                    -              -   229,840,981                 -             -             -   227,008,550   225,035,916
        investment securities                           17             238,036     58,679,662                -    3,158,208                -             -    62,075,906    61,323,265

                                                                       238,036     75,099,387    229,840,981      3,158,208       27,623,945             -   333,128,126   330,032,354

        deposits from banks                             26                    -              -               -               -    37,433,906             -    37,433,906    37,433,906
        deposits from customers                         27                    -              -               -               -   283,302,604             -   283,302,604   283,302,604
        interest bearing liability                      29                    -              -               -               -          932              -          932           932
        other borrowed funds                            30                    -              -               -               -             -   32,093,404     32,093,404    32,093,404

                                                                              -              -               -               -   320,737,442   32,093,404    352,830,846   352,830,846




98        2016 annual report

                                                                                                           notes to the financial statements




bank


      in thousands of nigerian naira




                                               at fair                   loans and
                                                value                  receivables                   other          other          total
                                             through     held-to-     at amortised   available-   amortised      financial      carrying
                                                  p/l    maturity             cost     for sale        cost     liabilities     amount       fair value

(b)   31 december 2016
                                                                  -              -            -    27,608,708             -    27,608,708    27,608,708
      cash and cash equivalents         15           -
                                                         16,419,725              -            -             -             -    16,419,725    16,049,228
      pledged assets                    16           -
                                                                  -    229,840,981            -             -             -   227,008,550   225,035,916
      loans and advances to customers   18           -

      investment securities             17    238,036    55,871,354              -    3,159,208             -             -    59,268,598    58,543,040

                                              238,036    72,291,079    229,840,981    3,159,208    27,608,708             -   330,305,581   327,236,892


                                                     -            -              -            -    37,433,906             -    37,433,906    37,433,906
      deposits from banks               26
                                                     -            -              -            -   283,328,215             -   283,328,215   283,328,215
      deposits from customers           27
                                                     -            -              -            -          932              -          932           932
      interest bearing liability        29
                                                     -            -              -            -             -   29,282,289     29,282,289    29,282,289
      other borrowed funds              30

                                                                                              -   320,763,053   29,282,289    350,045,342   350,045,342
                                                     -            -              -




                                                                                                                         99    2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


       bank




      in thousands of nigerian naira


                                               at fair                   loans and
                                                value                  receivables                   other          other
                                             through     held-to-     at amortised   available-   amortised      financial    total carrying
                                                  p/l    maturity             cost     for sale        cost     liabilities         amount       fair value


(c)   31 december 2015


      cash and cash equivalents         15           -            -              -            -    56,583,610             -       56,583,610     56,583,610


      pledged assets                    16           -   16,455,942              -            -             -             -       16,455,942     16,350,706


      loans and advances to customers   18           -            -    188,022,922            -             -             -      185,596,590   179,558,1389


      investment securities             17   4,688,492   28,788,649              -    7,630,131             -             -       41,107,271     40,603,035

                                             4,688,492   45,244,591    188,022,922    7,630,131    56,583,610             -      299,744,806    293,096,827




      deposits from banks               26           -            -              -            -                           -                -              -


      deposits from customers           27           -            -              -            -   284,977,836             -      284,977,836    284,977,836


      interest bearing liability        29           -            -              -            -       79,485              -           79,485        79,485


      other borrowed funds              30           -            -              -            -             -   52,289,916        52,289,916     52,289,916

                                                     -            -              -            -   285,057,321   52,289,916       337,347,237    337,347,237




100 2016 annual report

                                                       notes to the financial statements



in thousands of nigerian naira                             group          bank         bank
                                                        31-dec-16    31-dec-16    31-dec-15
7 interest income
  cash and cash equivalents                               609,528      609,528     1,088,571
  loans and advances to banks and customers            38,693,553    38,693,553   30,287,007
  investments securities                                5,257,380     5,142,939    5,752,507


total interest income                                  44,560,461    44,446,020   37,128,085


   interest expense
   deposits from banks                                  3,471,622     3,471,622     829,962
   deposits from customers                             21,388,702    21,388,702   15,123,227
   other borrowed funds                                 1,049,959      905,303     3,455,277


total interest expense                                 25,910,283    25,765,627   19,408,466


8 fees and commission income
  retail banking customer fees & commissions            2,730,300     2,730,300    2,529,517
  corporate banking customer fees & comm.               1,721,001     1,721,001    2,505,169
  other fees and charges                                1,739,438     1,739,438     570,511
total fee and commission income                         6,190,739     6,190,739    5,605,197


9 net trading income


  fixed income securities                                       -             -     257,524
  treasury bills                                          451,588      451,588     1,299,117
  foreign exchange trading (see (i) below)              1,671,520     1,671,520     225,195


                                                        2,123,108     2,123,108    1,781,836


10 other income


   dividends on available-for-sale equity securities       27,448        27,448       56,057
   gains on disposal of property and equipment              4,029         4,029           -
   rental income (see (ii) below)                          45,474        45,474       47,862
   fair value loss writeback                                    -             -      418,612
   insurance claim received                                56,770        56,770      102,229
   income on contingents                                  368,107       368,107      198,350
   income on deposit accounts                             202,675       202,675      203,932
   fund transfer                                           28,816        28,816       22,630
   fx revaluation (see (iii) below)                       611,244       611,244       59,128
   swift transactions                                      24,855        24,855       45,315
   others                                                 117,524       117,524      122,568


                                                         1,486,942    1,486,942    1,276,683




                                                                     101 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


    (i)    foreign exchange trading income is principally made up of trading income on foreign currencies, as well as
           gains and losses from revaluation of trading position. the amount reported above are totally from financial
           assets carried at fair value through profit or loss

    (ii)   the bank has a number of investment properties from which rental income is derived. during the year ended
           31 december 2016, the bank spent n7.66million (31 dec 2015: n5.28million) to generate rental income as
           disclosed above. refer to note 21 for details of the investment properties.

    (iii) foreign currency revaluation gain represents gains realised from the revaluation of foreign currencies
          denominated assets and liabilities held in the banking books.


in thousands of nigerian naira                                                group             bank                bank
                                                                           31-dec-16       31-dec-16         31-dec-15

11 impairment write back/(loss) of financial assets

    impairment losses on loans and advances
    - specific impairment                                                  1,082,400        1,082,400           434,815
    -collective impairment                                                    13,684           13,684           207,655
    - recoveries on loans                                                   (178,382)        (178,382)        (199,050)
    - write offs                                                            (689,985)        (689,985)        (650,869)
    impairment loss on other assets                                          184,684          184,684           129,809



                                                                             412,401          412,401           (77,640)



12 personnel expenses
    wages and salaries                                                      7,528,860       7,528,860          7,092,509
    contributions to defined contribution plans                               571,937         571,937              628,328
    gratuity expenses                                                         451,433         451,433              365,293
    other staff costs                                                       1,800,091       1,800,091          1,758,418


                                                                           10,352,321      10,352,321          9,844,548



                                                                              group              bank                bank
    in thousands of nigerian naira                                         31-dec-16         31-dec-16         31-dec-15
13a other operating expenses

    advertising and market mg                                                 428,490         428,490              927,750
    amcon levy                                                              1,984,739        1,984,739          1,916,232
    auditors remuneration                                                     120,000         120,000              110,000
    business expenses                                                         158,945         158,945              149,641
    cash movement expenses                                                    443,631         443,631              326,330
    diesel expenses                                                           507,569         507,569              379,436
    directors expenses                                                         15,923          15,923               16,092
    directors fees                                                             65,900          65,900               57,225
    donations                                                                  30,200          30,200               32,428
    electricity                                                               159,430         159,430              140,364
    general administrative expenses                                           520,050         520,050              398,957




102 2016 annual report

                                                                           notes to the financial statements


 13a other operating expenses continued.
                                                                           31-dec-16           31-dec-16          31-dec-15

      insurance                                                                 287,433           287,433             262,934
      loss on disposal of property and equipment                                       -                 -              3,429
      ndic premium                                                            1,150,009         1,150,009           1,053,502
      other accruals                                                                   -                 -            100,000
      other premises and equipment costs                                        457,939           457,939             466,790
      paye/withholding expenses                                                  73,143            73,143             377,619
      printing and stationery                                                   304,289           304,289             245,830
      professional fees                                                         873,050           873,050             378,079
      repairs and maintenance                                                 1,685,078         1,685,078           1,653,410
      security expenses                                                         595,024           595,024             532,352
      service charge                                                            628,545           628,545             525,691
      sms expenses & others                                                      29,896            29,896              76,943
      statutory expenses                                                         68,017            67,012              79,785
      technology and alternative channels                                     1,068,557         1,068,557             482,225
      transport & communications                                                299,892           299,892             288,183
      vat                                                                        97,833            97,833             235,035
      wema anniversary expense                                                    1,523             1,523             158,683
      wema homes & wema asset cessation taxes                                    77,498            77,498                    -

                                                                             12,132,603        12,131,598          11,374,945



13b     depreciation and amortization


        property, plants and equipment                                        1,986,701         1,986,701           1,543,522
        investment property                                                       8,554             8,554               8,598
        intangible                                                              313,242          313,242              697,904

                                                                              2,308,497         2,308,497           2,250,024



14 earnings per share

      basic and diluted earnings per share
      basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to shareholders by the weighted
      average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

      the calculation of basic earnings per share as at 31 december 2015 was based on the profit attributable to ordinary
      shareholders and weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding




                                                                                            103 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

 in thousands                                                              group                 bank          bank
                                                                        31-dec-16            31-dec-16     31-dec-15



 weighted average number of ordinary shares – basic                    38,574,466           38,574,466    38,574,466



 profit attributable to ordinary shareholders -basic

 profit for the year attributable to equity holders
 of the bank                                                            2,560,580            2,591,800     2,273,205
 earnings per share –basic (kobo)                                              6.6                 6.7           5.9




15 cash and cash equivalents                                               group                 bank         bank
                                                                       31-dec-16            31-dec-16    31-dec-15
 cash and balances with banks                                         12,950,646            12,935,409    9,534,945
 unrestricted balances with central bank                                9,407,329            9,407,329   29,663,708
 money market placements                                                5,265,970            5,265,970   17,394,364


                                                                      27,623,945            27,608,708   56,593,017
 specific provision                                                              -                   -      (9,407)


                                                                      27,623,945            27,608,708   56,583,610



15b   restricted deposit with cbn

this represents mandatory cash deposit held with central bank of nigeria as a regulatory cash reserve requirements
(crr). the crr rate was increased from 20% to 22.5% for both private and public sector funds during the year 2016.
the balance as at end of financial year was n48,161,682,000 (n2015 - n53,386,000,000)

restricted deposits with central bank are not available for use in day to day operations.

                                                                           group                bank         bank
         in thousands of nigerian naira                                 31-dec-16           31-dec-16    31-dec-15


16    pledged assets - held to maturity


         treasury bills                                                  6,511,903           6,511,903    7,008,396
         bonds                                                           9,907,822           9,907,822    9,447,546

                                                                        16,419,725          16,419,725   16,455,942




104 2016 annual report

                                                                      notes to the financial statements


the treasury bills are pledged for clearing activities with first bank and as collection bank for government taxes and
electronic card transactions with federal inland revenue service (firs), nigerian interbank settlement system (nibss)
and interswitch nigeria limited. the bank cannot trade on these pledged assets during the period that such assets are
committed as pledged.

the bonds are pledged as collateral for the intervention credit granted to the bank by the bank of industry for the
purpose of refinancing existing loans to small and medium scale enterprises scheme under secured borrowing with
related liability of n5.18billion (2015: n6.17billion) as disclosed in note 30.



                                                                             group             bank             bank
              in thousands of nigerian naira                              31-dec-16        31-dec-16       31-dec-15


17           investment securities


              investment securities                                     62,075,906        59,268,598      41,107,271


              current                                                    35,553,455       35,553,455      15,960,185
              non-current                                                26,522,451       23,715,143      25,147,086


 (a)          available-for-sale investment securities comprise:
              bonds                                                                  -             -                  -
              treasury bills                                              3,005,125        3,005,125       7,481,865
              equity (see note (i) below                                    153,083          154,083         148,265
              less: specific allowance for impairment                                              -                  -


                                                                         3,158,208         3,159,208       7,630,131


     (b)      held for trading investment securities comprise:


              treasury bills (see (ii) below)                              238,036           238,036       4,688,492
              fgn bonds (see (iv) below)                                                           -                  -


                                                                           238,036          238,036        4,688,492
              held to maturity investment securities comprise:
       (c)
              treasury bills                                            32,310,294        32,310,294       3,789,828
              fgn bonds                                                  21,626,779       18,818,471      19,448,724
              other bonds (see (iii) below)                               4,742,589        4,742,589       5,550,097

                                                                         58,679,662       55,871,354      28,788,648




                                                                                         105 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

(i)                                                                       group                 bank                 bank
                                                                       31-dec-16            31-dec-16            31-dec-15

quoted investments:                                                        12,738              12,738               12,855
unquoted investments:
unified payment services limited                                           4,935                4,935                    -
nig. automated clearing sys                                               18,000               18,000               18,000
central securities system nigeria limited                                 87,928               87,928               87,928
nigeria inter-bank settlement system                                      29,482               29,482               29,482
wema funding spv plc (a)                                                       -                1,000                    -
                                                                         140,345              141,345              135,410

                                                                         153,083              154,083              148,265


(a)     wema funding spv plc was incorporated on 30 june 2016 and commenced operations on 12 october 2016. the
        principal activity of the company is to raise or borrow money by the issue of bond or debt instruments and invest
        the money raised or borrowed in securities or any other investments as the company may deem fit.

(ii)    this represents nigerian treasury bills with maturity of less than 180days; a face value of n250,000,000 stated at
        fair value through profit or loss.

(iii)   other bonds - these are held to maturity securities for state and corporate entities, stated at amortised cost as
        shown below:



 corporate
         1                         7yr: dana group bond series 1                                                  1,811,737

 state bonds
          2                        ekiti state govt bond                                                            788,373
          3                        ekiti state govt bond tranche 11                                                 762,469
          5                        ondo state govt bond                                                           1,380,010
                                                                                                                  2,930,852

                                                                                                                 4,742,589




106 2016 annual report

                                                         notes to the financial statements



18   loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
                                                              group            bank           bank
                                                          31-dec-16       31-dec-16      31-dec-15
     in thousands of nigeria naira
     overdrafts                                           15,359,623      15,359,623     12,598,629
     term loans                                          209,091,346     209,091,346    169,511,700
     advances under finance lease                          5,390,012       5,390,012      5,912,593


     gross loans and receivables                         229,840,981     229,840,981    188,022,922


     less allowances for impairment
     specific allowances for impairment                   (2,136,061)     (2,136,061)    (1,327,916)
     collective allowances for impairment                  (696,370)       (696,370)     (1,098,416)

                                                          (2,832,431)     (2,832,431)    (2,426,332)


     net loans and advances to customers                 227,008,550     227,008,550    185,596,590


     overdrafts
     gross overdrafts                                     15,359,623      15,359,623     12,598,629


     less allowances for impairment
     specific allowances for impairment                    (386,901)       (386,901)      (464,627)
     collective allowances for impairment                    (79,830)       (79,830)      (208,201)


                                                           (466,731)       (466,731)      (672,828)


     net overdrafts                                       14,892,892      14,892,892     11,925,801


     term loans
     gross term loans                                    209,091,346     209,091,346    169,511,700


     less allowances for impairment
     specific allowances for impairment                   (1,644,820)     (1,644,820)     (863,289)
     collective allowances for impairment                  (614,506)       (614,506)      (865,441)

                                                          (2,259,326)     (2,259,326)    (1,728,730)


     net term loans                                      206,832,020     206,832,020    167,782,970

     advance under finance lease
                                                              group            bank           bank
     in thousands of nigerian naira                       31-dec-16       31-dec-16       31-dec-15
     gross advance                                         5,390,012       5,390,012      5,912,593
     less allowances for impairment
     specific allowances for impairment                    (104,340)       (104,340)               -
                                                              (2,034)        (2,034)        (24,774)
     collective allowances for impairment
                                                           (106,374)        (106,374)       (24,774)

     net advances                                          5,283,638       5,283,638      5,887,819


     total loans and advances
     current                                              79,293,850      79,293,850     73,063,173
     non-current                                         150,547,131     150,547,131    114,959,749


                                                         229,840,981     229,840,981    188,022,922




                                                                        107 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

a    reconciliation of impairment allowance on loans and advances to customers


                                                                                     advances
                                                    overdraft       term loan     under finance            totals
                                                                                           lease


     in thousands of nigerian naira

     balance as at 1 january 2016                     627,828        1,728,730           27,774         2,426,332

     specific impairment                              464,627         863,289                  -        1,327,916

     collective impairment                            208,201         865,411            24,774         1,098,416



     additional impairment for the year {note 11}     388,335         626,149            81,600         1,096,084

     specific impairment                                              877,084           104,304         1,082,400
                                                      100,975

                                                      287,360        (250,935)          (22,740)          13,684
     collective impairment



                                                                                               -
     written off in the year as uncollectible       (594,432)          (95,553)                         (689,985)

     amounts recovered during the year                      -                                  -                -



     balance as at 31 december 2016                   466,731        2,259,326          106,374         2,832,431

     specific impairment                              386,901        1,644,820                          2,136,061
                                                                                        104,340
     collective impairment                             79,830         614,506             2,034          696,370



                                                                                        advances
                                                                                            under
                                                     overdraft        term loan                           totals
                                                                                          finance
                                                                                             lease
in thousands of nigerian naira
balance as at 1 january 2015                            804,118        2,150,026           44,022      2,998,166
specific impairment                                     595,756          313,312             4,258      913,326
collective impairment                                   208,362         1,836,714          39,764      2,084,840


additional impairment for the year {note 11}            329,141          285,098           28,231       642,470
specific impairment                                     329,141            77,443          28,231       434,815
collective impairment                                           -        207,655                   -    207,655


written off in the year as uncollectible              (434,057)         (213,573)          (3,239)     (650,869)
amounts recovered during the year                      (26,374)         (492,821)         (44,240)     (563,435)


balance as at 31 december 2015                          672,828        1,728,730           24,774      2,426,332
specific impairment                                     464,627          863,289                   -   1,327,916
collective impairment                                   208,201          865,441           24,774      1,098,416




108 2016 annual report

                                                                         notes to the financial statements

b.   maximum exposure to credit risk before collateral held or other credit enhancements

     concentration of risks of financial assets with credit risk exposure
     credit risk exposures relating to on-balance sheet assets are as follows:

                                                                             group               bank                bank
     in thousands of nigeria naira                                        31-dec-16          31-dec-16          31-dec-15


     loans and advances to banks                                                                      -                    -
     loans and advances to customers:
     corporate bank
     − overdrafts                                                        14,194,930         14,194,930          12,096,497
     − term loans                                                       197,931,334        197,931,334        157,638,131
     − others                                                              5,264,938          5,264,938          5,714,240
     domestic bank                                                                 -                  -                  -
     − overdrafts                                                          1,164,693          1,164,693           502,133
     − term loans                                                        11,160,013         11,160,013          11,873,568
     − others                                                               125,073            125,073            198,353
     trading assets                                                                -                  -                 -
     − debt securities                                                      238,036            238,036           4,688,492
     investment securities                                                        -                  -                   -
     - debt securities                                                   61,837,870         59,030,562          36,418,779
     other assets                                                                 -                  -                     -


                                                                        291,916,887        289,109,579        229,130,193


contingent liabilities & commitments:


financial guarantee                                                      23,226,063         23,226,063           8,814,014
other contingent                                                         14,300,404         14,300,404          10,242,514

                                                                         37,526,467         37,526,467          19,056,528


nature of collateral in respect of loans and advances                        group                bank                   bank

                                                                          31-dec-16          31-dec-16           31-dec-15
secured against real estates                                            160,032,604         160,032,604          71,187,378
secured against shares                                                    4,466,152           4,466,152           2,928,785
otherwise secured                                                        65,342,226          65,342,226         113,906,759
unsecured                                                                         -                   -                        -


                                                                        229,840,981        229,840,981         152,292,015


the bank is not permitted to sell or re-pledge the collateral in the absence of default by the owner of the collateral




                                                                                          109 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


     in thousands of nigerian naira                                      group                bank               bank
                                                                     31-dec-16           31-dec-16          31-dec-15
     nature of assets and carrying amount:


    real estate                                                    160,032,604         160,032,604          71,187,377
    shares                                                            4,466,152           4,466,152          2,928,785


     finance lease receivable


     gross investment in the finance lease
     less than one year                                                  99,728              99,728             11,695
     between one and five years                                       1,598,196           1,598,196          1,885,571
     more than five years                                             4,929,246          4,929,246           4,015,327


                                                                      6,627,170           6,627,170          5,912,593
     unearned finance income                                         (1,237,158)        (1,237,158)         (1,357,105)


     net investment in finance lease                                  5,390,012          5,390,012           4,555,488


     net advances under finance lease
     less than one year                                                  81,098              81,098             10,825
     between one and five years                                       1,297,142           1,297,142          1,331,148
     more than five years                                             4,011,772           4,011,772          3,213,515


                                                                      5,390,012          5,390,012           4,555,488


loans and advances neither past due nor impaired

the credit quality of the portfolio of loans and advances that were neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by
reference to the internal rating system adopted by the bank. current indicates those facilities which were within their
running periods and had no interest and or principal overdue and no indication of impairment displayed. watchlist
indicates those that were within their running periods and had no indication of impairment but had interest/ principal
between 0 - 90 days due.


group
                                                                loans and advances to customers
31-dec-16
                                                                                         advances
in thousands of nigerian naira                   overdrafts           term loans      under finance               total
                                                                                               lease
grades:
1. current                                         12,575,559        148,838,550          1,265,326        162,679,435
ia. watchlist                                       1,462,328         50,040,092          4,009,058         55,511,478


total                                              14,037,887        198,878,642          5,274,384        218,190,913




110 2016 annual report

                                                                          notes to the financial statements

bank
                                                                 loans and advances to customers
31-dec-16
                                                                                               advances
in thousands of nigerian naira                  overdrafts               term loans         under finance             total
                                                                                                     lease
grades:
1. current                                        12,575,559             148,838,550            1,265,326       162,679,435
ia. watchlist                                      1,462,328              50,040,092            4,009,058        55,511,478


total                                             14,037,887             198,878,642            5,274,384       218,190,913


bank

31 december 2015

                                                                 loans and advances to customers

                                                                                               advances
in thousands of nigerian naira                  overdrafts                term loans        under finance              total
                                                                                                     lease

grades:
1. current                                        10,119,440             141,977,877            5,888,557       157,985,874
ia. watchlist                                      1,280,287              24,272,957                     -       25,553,244


total                                             11,399,727             166,250,834            5,888,557       183,539,118



loans and advances past due but not impaired

late processing and other administrative delays on the side of the borrower can lead to a financial asset being past
due but not impaired. therefore, loans and advances less than 90 days past due are not usually considered impaired,
unless other information is available to indicate the contrary. gross amount of loans and advances by class to
customers that were past due but not impaired were as follows:

loans and advances less than 90 days past due are not considered impaired, unless other information is available to
indicate the contrary. gross amount of loans and advances by class to customers that were past due but not impaired
were as follows:

group

    31-dec-16
    in thousands of nigerian naira                                  loans and advances to customers
                                                                                           advances
    in thousands of nigerian naira                       overdrafts     term loans   under finance                    total
                                                                                               lease
    past due up to 30 days                                  178,084         411,768           11,099                600,951
    past due 30-60 days                                      67,072       7,751,452                -              7,818,524
    past due 60-90 days                                     545,011         283,808                -                828,819

    total                                                      790,167         8,447,028              11,099      9,248,294

    fair value of collateral                                   966,041          8,425,000              24,427      9,415,468
    amount of under/ (over) – collaterisation                (175,874)             22,028            (13,328)      (167,174)




                                                                                             111 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

    bank
    31-dec-16
    in thousands of nigerian naira                                     loans and advances to customers
                                                                                              advances
    in thousands of nigerian naira                          overdrafts     term loans   under finance              total
                                                                                                  lease
    past due up to 30 days                                     178,084         411,768           11,099          600,951
    past due 30-60 days                                         67,072       7,751,452                -        7,818,524
    past due 60-90 days                                        545,011         283,808                -          828,819

    total                                                      790,167       8,447,028             11,099      9,248,294

    fair value of collateral                                    966,041       8,425,000             24,427     9,415,468
    amount of under/ (over) – collaterisation                 (175,874)          22,028           (13,328)     (167,174)

     bank
     31 december 2015
                                                                     loans and advances to customers
                                                                                              advances
                                                                                                  under
                                                                                                finance
     in thousands of nigerian naira                       overdrafts      term loans               lease          total
     past due up to 30 days                                   10,436           22,582                  -         33,018
     past due 30-60 days                                      79,894          172,877                  -        252,771
     past due 60-90 days                                     498,032        1,077,662                  -      1,575,694

     total                                                   588,362        1,273,121                   -     1,861,483

     fair value of collateral                               1,623,316       1,894,359                   -     3,517,675

                                                                                                        -
     amount of under/ (over) - collaterisation             (1,034,954)      (621,238)                        (1,656,192)


individually impaired loans

loans and advances to customers
the individually impaired loans and advances to customers before taking into consideration the cashflow from
collateral held is n billion {2015: n2.6 billion}. the breakdown of the gross amount of individually impaired loans and
advances by class are as follows:


     group                                       loans and advances to customers
                                                                                             advances
     31-dec-16                                                                            under finance
                                                           overdraft      term loan                lease          totals
     individually impaired loan                              531,568       1,765,677            104,529       2,401,774
     impairment allowance                                    386,901       1,644,820            104,340       2,136,061
     fair value of collateral                                144,668         120,857                 189        265,714


     bank
                                                                                             advances
     31-dec-16                                                                            under finance
                                                           overdraft      term loan                lease         totals
     individually impaired loan                              531,568       1,765,677            104,529       2,401,774
     impairment allowance                                    386,901       1,644,820            104,340       2,136,061
     fair value of collateral                                144,668        120,857                  189        265,714




112 2016 annual report

                                                                      notes to the financial statements


 in thousands of nigerian naira                                loans and advances to customers


                                                                                   advances under
                                             overdraft          term loan            finance lease                   totals
 bank
 31 december 2015
 individually impaired loan                     610,541          1,987,745                  24,035            2,622,321
 impairment allowance                           464,627            858,923                   4,366            1,327,916
 fair value of collateral                       145,001            746,839                  19,022              910,862


restructuring policy

loans with renegotiated terms are loans that have been restructured because the bank has made concession by
agreeing to terms and conditions that are more favourable for the customer than the bank has provided initially. the
bank implements restructuring policy in order to maximize collection opportunities and minimize the risk of default.

the bank's credit committee grant's approval for restructuring of certain facilities due to the following reasons:

i)     where the execution of the loan purpose and the repayment is no longer realistic in light of new cashflows.
ii)    to avoid unintended default arising from adverse business conditions
iii)   to align loan repayment with new pattern of achievable cashflows.
iv)    where there are proven cost over runs that may significantly impair the project repayment capacity.
v)     where there is temporary down turn in the customers' business environment.
vi)    where the customer's going concern status is not in doubt or threatened.


group
31-dec-16


                                             gross         specific       collective            total          carrying
in thousands of nigerian naira            amount       impairment       impairment       impairment             amount


loans to individuals
                                        6,406,241          447,792             4,635          452,427          5,953,815
loans to corporate entities and other
organisations                         223,434,760         1,688,269          691,735        2,380,004       221,054,735



                                       229,840,981        2,136,061          696,370        2,832,431       227,008,550



bank

                                             gross         specific       collective            total          carrying
in thousands of nigerian naira            amount       impairment       impairment       impairment             amount


loans to individuals
                                        6,406,241           447,792            4,635          452,427          5,953,815
loans to corporate entities and other
organisations                         223,434,760         1,688,269          691,735        2,380,004       221,054,735



                                       229,840,981        2,136,061          696,370        2,832,431       227,008,550




                                                                                       113 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

    bank
    31 december 2015
                                              gross           specific        collective           total      carrying
    in thousands of nigerian naira         amount       impairment          impairment      impairment        amount

    loans to individuals                 12,574,055          1,156,421         1,014,237       2,170,658    10,403,397
    loans to corporate entities and
    other organisations                 175,448,867           171,495            84,179         255,674    175,193,193


                                       188,022,922           1,327,916        1,098,416        2,426,332   185,596,590


   in thousands of nigerian naira                                            group              bank            bank

                                                                          31-dec-16         31-dec-16       31-dec-15

   impairment allowance on loans and advances to
   customers



   specific impairment


   balance, beginning of year                                              1,327,916         1,327,916        913,326
   charge for the year                                                     1,082,400         1,082,400        434,815
   write-offs                                                              (274,255)         (274,255)        (20,225)

   balance, end of year                                                    2,136,061         2,136,061       1,327,916


   collective impairment


   at 1 january                                                            1,098,416         1,098,416       2,084,840
   charge for the year                                                       13,684            13,684         207,655
   allowance no longer required                                                    -                 -       (563,435)
   write-offs                                                              (415,730)         (415,730)       (630,644)
   at 31 december                                                           696,370           696,370        1,098,416

   the maturity profile of loans & advances is as follows:



   less than 3months                                                      22,999,394        22,999,394      16,486,649
   3 -6months                                                             42,633,300        42,633,300      14,701,005
   6 -12months                                                            13,661,156        13,661,156      13,722,104
   1 -5years                                                              98,787,523        98,787,523      98,286,031
   5years and above                                                       48,927,177        48,927,177      42,400,801
                                                                         227,008,550       227,008,550     185,596,590




114 2016 annual report

                                                                          notes to the financial statements


in thousands of nigerian naira                                   group                      bank                  bank
                                                           31-dec-16                    31-dec-16            31-dec-15

impairment allowance on loans and advances
to customers


specific impairment


balance, beginning of year                                  1,327,916                    1,327,916             913,326
charge for the year                                         1,082,400                    1,082,400             434,815
allowance no longer required                                (274,255)                    (274,255)                   -
write-offs                                                            -                          -             (20,225)
balance, end of year                                        2,136,061                    2,136,061            1,327,916


collective impairment


at 1 january                                                1,098,416                    1,098,416            2,084,840
charge for the year                                              13,684                    13,684              207,655
allowance no longer required                                          -                          -            (563,435)
write-offs                                                  (415,730)                    (415,730)            (630,644)
at 31 december                                               696,370                      696,370             1,098,416


the maturity profile of loans & advances is as follows:




less than 3months                                          22,999,394                   22,999,394          16,486,649
3 -6months                                                 42,633,300                   42,633,300          14,701,005
6 -12months                                                13,661,156                   13,661,156          13,722,104
1 -5years                                                  98,787,523                   98,787,523          98,286,031
5years and above                                           48,927,177                   48,927,177          42,400,801
                                                          227,008,550                  227,008,550         185,596,590


19   derivative financial instruments

                                            notional contract       fair value 2016
                                                                                               fair value 2015 liability
                                                     amount                liability


foreign exchange derivative                                  -                     -                                   -
foreign exchange forward                                     -                     -                                   -
currency swaps                                               -                     -                                   -
                                                             -                     -                                   -




                                                                                         115 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


20     assets classified as held for sale

the bank has disposed its shares in associated discount house in 2015 and the transaction cost was borne by the
buyer of the shares.

in thousands of nigeria naira                                               group                  bank                 bank
                                                                        31-dec-16             31-dec-16            31-dec-15


balance, beginning of year                                       -                                       -        2,964,626
share of profit                                                                                          -                     -
adjustment for dividend paid                                                                             -                     -
share of other comprehensive
                                                                                                         -                     -
income
disposal                                                         -                                       -      (2,964,626)
balance, end of year                                             -                                       -                     -

 21        investment properties                                            group                   bank                bank
                                                                         31-dec-16             31-dec-16           31-dec-15


           carrying amount at the beginning of year                        393,547               393,547             402,145


           cost                                                            442,165               442,165             442,165
           accumulated depreciation                                        (48,618)              (48,618)            (40,020)

           additions                                                                                                           -
           disposals                                                       (23,195)              (23,195)                      -
           cost                                                            (38,107)              (38,107)                      -
           depreciation                                                     14,912                14,912                       -
           depreciation charge for the year                                 (8,554)               (8,554)              (8,598)


           carrying amount at the end of the year                          361,798               361,798             393,547

           cost                                                            404,058               404,058             442,165
           accumulated depreciation                                        (42,260)              (42,260)            (48,618)


(i)    investment properties represent land and buildings that are not substantially occupied by the bank but held for
       investment purposes. investment properties are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment
       losses in accordance with the cost model. investment properties are depreciated over a useful life of 50 years with a nil
       residual value. had investment property been carried at fair value, the fair value as at 31 december 2016 would have
       been n1,382,250,000 (december 2015: n1,410,250,000). the valuations were provided by messrs diya fatimilehin &
       co. chartered surveyors and valuers (frc/2013/niesv/00000000754).



(ii)   on 19 december, 2013 the central bank of nigeria issued a circular that all deposit money banks should dispose off all
       the investment properties in their books on or before 30 june, 2014. the directors are aware of this directive and all
       necessary efforts is being made to ensure compliance.

       although the directors are committed to a plan to sell the asset as directed by the central bank of nigeria; the active
       programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan has not been initiated. hence, the sale is not expected to qualify
       for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.

       consequently, the assets were not classified as held for sale as the stipulated criteria in ifrs 5 regarding this has
       not been met.

116 2016 annual report

                                                                                              notes to the financial statements




22.   property and equipment



group
                                              land     buildings    furniture       motor       computer        work in         total
in thousands of nigerian naira (000s)                              equipment      vehicles     equipment       progress

cost
balance at 1 january 2016                 1,096,084   13,306,168    4,541,028    1,788,364       4,872,216       972,874   26,576,734
additions                                    91,950      322,490      892,213      264,356         776,849       493,886    2,840,744
reclassification from wip                         -      637,279        43,978           -           34,259    (715,516)            -
transfer from wip                                 -            -       (2,877)           -            6,896    (164,084)    (160,065)
disposals                                                             (26,281)   (148,415)         (12,885)            -    (187,581)

balance at 31 december 2016               1,188,034   14,265,937    5,448,061    1,904,305       5,677,335      587,160    29,070,832

accumulated depreciation and impairment
balance at 1 january 2016                         -    3,627,707    3,137,304    1,156,569       2,687,443             -   10,609,023
charge for the year                               -      265,181      561,244       313,002        847,274             -    1,986,701
disposals                                         -            -      (19,709)    (107,440)        (12,208)            -     (139,357)
transfer                                                       -             -            -               -            -             -
balance at 31 december 2016                       -    3,892,888    3,678,839    1,362,131       3,522,509             -   12,456,367

carrying amounts

balance at 1 january 2016                 1,096,084    9,678,461    1,403,724     631,795        2,184,773      972,874    15,967,711

balance at 31 december 2016               1,188,034   10,373,049    1,769,222     542,174        2,154,826      587,160    16,614,465




                                                                                                         117   2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements




    property and equipment


    bank
                                                  land     buildings   furniture &      motor     computer     work in          total
    in thousands of nigerian naira (000s)                              equipment       vehicles   equipment    progress


    cost
    balance at 1 january 2016                 1,096,084   13,306,168     4,541,028    1,788,364    4,872,216    972,874    26,576,734
    additions                                   91,950      322,490        892,213     264,356      776,849     493,886     2,840,744
    reclassification from wip                         -     637,279         43,978            -      34,259    (715,516)            -
    transfer from wip                                 -            -        (2,877)           -        6,896   (164,084)    (160,065)
    disposals                                                             (26,281)    (148,415)     (12,885)           -    (187,581)


    balance at 31 december 2016               1,188,034   14,265,937     5,448,061    1,904,305    5,677,335    587,160    29,070,832


    accumulated depreciation and impairment
    balance at 1 january 2016                         -    3,627,707     3,137,304    1,156,569    2,687,443           -   10,609,023
    charge for the year                               -     265,181        561,244     313,002      847,274            -    1,986,701
    disposals                                         -           -       (19,709)    (107,440)     (12,208)           -    (139,357)
    transfer                                                       -              -           -            -           -            -
    balance at 31 december 2016                       -    3,892,888     3,678,839    1,362,131    3,522,509           -   12,456,367


    carrying amounts


    balance at 1 january 2016                 1,096,084    9,678,461     1,403,724     631,795     2,184,773    972,874    15,967,711


    balance at 31 december 2016               1,188,034   10,373,049     1,769,222     542,174     2,154,826    587,160    16,614,465




   118 2016 annual report

                                                                        notes to the financial statements


                                                                          group              bank                 bank
       in thousands of nigerian naira                                 31-dec-16         31-dec-16            31-dec-15


23     intangible assets


       cost
       balance beginning of the year                                   2,695,392        2,695,392             3,256,010
       additions                                                         233,677          233,677               555,863
       transfer to computer equipment                                     (8,528)          (8,528)           -1,100,264
       written off                                                               -                -             -16,218


       balance end of the year                                         2,920,541        2,920,541             2,695,392


       amortization and impairment losses
       balance beginning of the year                                   2,207,282        2,207,282             2,254,056
       amortization for the year                                         313,242          313,242               697,904
       transfer to computer equipment                                            -                -           (632,940)
       write back of excess amortization to income                                                -             (95,921)
       written off                                                               -                -             (16,218)


       balance end of the year                                         2,520,524        2,520,524             2,207,282


       carrying amounts                                                  400,017          400,017              488,110



     (a)   the intangible assets have got finite lives and are amortised over the higher of 3 years or the contractual
           licensing period. no impairment losses were recognised against intangible assets.

     (b)   the authorised and contracted capital commitments as at the balance sheet date was nil (31 december
           2015: nil)

     (c)   there were no capitalised borrowing costs related to the acquisition of intangible assets during the year (31
           december 2015: nil)




                                                                                        119 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

24            deferred tax assets and liabilities
              (a)   recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
                    deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:

                                                                                group                   bank               bank
                                                                          31 december            31 december        31 december
                                                                                 2016                   2016               2015
                     in thousands of nigerian naira

                     at 1 january
                                                                             22,569,702            22,569,702         22,969,702

                     allowances for loan losses
                                                                               (400,000)            (400,000)          (400,000)

                     others
                                                                                       -                    -                   -

                     at 31 december
                                                                             22,169,702            22,169,702         22,569,702



      in thousands of nigerian naira                                                    group             bank             bank
                                                                                    31-dec-16         31-dec-16        31-dec-15
25    other assets

      accounts receivables                                                           3,248,708         3,248,708       4,549,980
      receivable from tsa                                                                    -                  -        122,997
      prepayments                                                                    1,725,500         1,725,500       1,249,611
      stock                                                                           347,585           347,585          249,987
      collaterised placement                                                            52,917           52,917           52,917
      clearing balance                                                                434,461           434,461          423,187
      fraud & burglary                                                                448,496           448,496          449,661
      electronic card related receivable                                              469,085           469,085          358,982
      others                                                                          175,685           175,685          374,935
                                                                                    6,902,437         6,902,437        7,832,257


     specific impairment on other assets                                           (3,694,646)       (3,694,646)      (3,637,495)


                                                                                    3,207,791         3,207,791        4,194,762


     at 1 january                                                                   3,637,495         3,637,495        4,394,925
     allowance made during the year                                                   184,684           184,684          278,814
     allowance written off                                                           (127,533)         (127,533)      (1,036,244)


                                                                                    3,694,646         3,694,646        3,637,495




120 2016 annual report

                                                                    notes to the financial statements

                                                                     group                 bank             bank
                                                                 31-dec-16            31-dec-16         31-dec-15

26    deposits from banks

      money market deposits                                     37,433,906            37,433,906                   -

      items in the course of collection                         37,433,906            37,433,906                   -




27a   deposits from customers                                        group                 bank              bank
                                                                 31-dec-16             31-dec-16        31-dec-15
      retail customers:
      term deposits                                              33,234,310           33,234,310        36,707,520
      current deposits                                           22,357,225           22,357,225        17,452,282
      savings                                                    45,399,150           45,399,150        35,579,680


      corporate customers:
      term deposits                                             108,808,264          108,808,264       124,571,511
      current deposits                                           65,494,472           65,520,083        68,842,472
      others                                                      8,009,183            8,009,183         1,824,371

                                                                283,302,604          283,328,215      284,977,836




27b    the maturity profile of customers’ deposit is as
       follows:
       under 3 months                                           170,690,866          170,690,866       170,690,866
       3 – 6months                                               16,399,786           16,399,786        16,399,786
       6 – 12months                                              11,000,288           11,000,288        11,000,288
       over 12months                                             85,211,664           85,237,275        86,886,896


                                                                283,302,604          283,328,215       284,977,836



at 31 december 2016 n85.24billion (31 december 2015: n86.9billion) of deposits from customers are expected to be
settled more than 12 months after the reporting date.




                                                                                   121 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

                                                                            group                bank               bank
                                                                      31 december         31 december        31 december
28   taxation
     in thousands of nigerian naira                                            2016                  2016            2015



     income tax expense

     company income tax                                                     311,091               311,091         287,798
     education tax                                                            5,502                 5,502                -
     nitda levy                                                              32,651                32,651          30,455
     capital gains tax                                                             -                     -               -
     (over) / under provision                                               (64,679)              (64,679)
     current income tax expense                                             284,565               284,565         318,253



     deferred tax expenses                                                  400,000               400,000         400,000

                                                                            684,565               684,565         718,253


     the income tax expense for the year can be reconciled to the accounting profit as follows:


                                                                            group                bank               bank
                                                                      31 december         31 december        31 december
                                                                             2016                2016               2015



     profit before tax from continuing operations                         3,245,145           3,276,365         2,991,458



     income tax expense calculated at 30% (2015:30%)                        973,544               982,910         897,437
     effect of income that is exempt from taxation                       (1,774,717)         (1,740,385)       (2,209,562)
     effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining
     taxable profit                                                       1,192,455           1,148,757         1,770,887
     education tax at 2% of assessable profit                                 5,502                 5,502                -
     effect of concessions and other allowances)                            (55,961)              (55,961)        (58,762)
     minimum tax adjustment                                                 311,091               311,091         287,798
     information technology tax levy adjustment
                                                                             32,651                32,651          30,455

                                                                            684,565               684,565        718,253




122 2016 annual report

                                                                         notes to the financial statements

                                                                      group                 bank                  bank
                                                                31 december          31 december           31 december
                                                                       2016                 2016                  2015

      current tax liabilities
      at 1 january                                                     349,245                 382,694          338,536
      payment during the year                                         (318,014)           (318,014)            (274,095)

      charge for the year                                              284,565                 284,565          318,253


      at 31 december                                                   315,796                 349,245          382,694



      the charge for taxation is based on the provision of the company income tax act cap c21 lfn 2004. education tax is
      based on 2% of the assessable profit for the year in accordance with the education tax act cap e4 lfn 2004.

      nitda levy is based on 1% of profit before tax in accordance with nitda levy act 2007.


29     other liabilities
                                                                         group                    bank            bank
       in thousands of nigerian naira                                31-dec-16            31-dec-16          31-dec-15


       creditors and accruals                                           827,048                 827,048        922,646
       other current liabilities                                        427,068                 427,068        290,383
       pension contribution (see note (i) below                             330                     330            766
       defined benefit plan (see note (ii)below)                         19,909                  19,909        165,437
       accounts payable                                               1,276,520            1,208,260           636,038
       certified cheques                                              1,498,923            1,498,923          1,038,683
       foreign currency transfers payable                             8,242,032            8,242,032           644,960
       discounting line                                               7,526,234            7,526,234          3,059,561
       fbn settlement                                                   643,660                 643,660       1,237,360
       other settlements                                              1,534,203            1,534,203          4,444,898
       remittances                                                      396,828                 396,828        508,542

                                                                    22,392,756            22,324,495        12,949,273



(i)    pension contribution
       at 1 january                                                         766                     766         48,028
       contribution in the year                                         822,269                 822,269        861,547
       remittance to pfa                                              (822,705)                (822,705)      (908,810)


       at 31 december                                                      330                      330            766




                                                                                          123 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


      (ii)   defined benefit plan

             the bank operates a defined benefit pension plan, which requires provisions to be made to a separately
             unfunded plan. the cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected
             unit credit method.

             re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts
             included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts
             included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the statement of
             financial position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through oci in the period in which
             they occur. re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.

             past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on the earlier of:

             ÿ   the date of the plan amendment or curtailment and
             ÿ   the date that the bank recognises related restructuring costs

             actuarial valuation computation was carried out on members (excluding directors) in the staff gratuity scheme
             for the financial years ended 31 december 2015 and 31 december 2016 under the international accounting
             standard 19 revised.

             the items disclosed in the balance are as follows:

                                                                             group             bank                 bank
                                                                         31 -dec -16      31 -dec -16          31 -dec -15
      defined benefit obligation                                           (958,598)       (958,598)               (542,827)
      fair value of plan assets                                             938,689            938,689              377,390
      deficit/surplus                                                       (19,909)           (19,909)            (165,437)
      asset ceiling                                                                   -               -                    -
      net(liability)/asset recognition                                      (19,909)        (19,909)             (165,437)

     consequently, the financial position items that were recognized are as follows:

     a deficiency of n165,437,000 as at 31 december,2015 and
     a deficiency of n19,909,000 as at 31 december, 2016

     the estimated expense figures for the next fiscal years are as follows:

                                                                            group             bank                  bank
                                                                         31-dec-16        31-dec-16             31-dec-17
     current service cost                                                     82,494         82,494               166,424
     past service cost                                                      352,076         352,076                      -
     total current service cost                                             434,570         434,570               166,424
     interest cost                                                            65,925         65,925               142,748
     interest income                                                        (49,061)        (49,061)             (150,190)
                                                                            451,434         451,434                 158,982



the most recent actuarial valuation of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation were carried
out at 31 december, 2016 by bestwole developments limited (frc/2013/nas/00000000986).
the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current service cost and past service cost were measured
using the projected unit credit method.

the principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows:

                                                                                                31 december, 2016

discount rate                                                                                                16%
expected rate of salary increase                                                                             13%




124 2016 annual report

                                                                           notes to the financial statements


average longevity at retirement age for current pensioners (years)                                             nil
males                                                                                                          nil
females                                                                                                        nil
average longevity at retirement age for current employees (future pensioners)                              55years
males                                                                                                          562
females                                                                                                        449
others (describe)                                                                                             n/a



in thousands of nigerian naira                                         group                   bank                   bank
                                                                   31-dec-16              31-dec-16             31-dec-15
30 other borrowed funds


due to cbn (see (i) below)                                          6,422,814              6,422,814            25,000,000
due to boi (see (ii) below)                                         5,177,727              5,177,727             6,170,965
osun bailout fund (see iii below)                                   9,735,070              9,735,070             9,974,985
cbn agric. loan (see iv below)                                      1,048,034              1,048,034               848,259
cbn msmedf (see v below)                                              139,997               139,997                  40,000
wema spv (see vi below)                                             6,308,747              3,497,359                       -
debt securities                                                               -                     -            8,140,296
national housing fund                                                 113,783               113,783                122,412

shelter afrique (see vii below)                                     3,147,505              3,147,505             1,993,000

                                                                  32,093,404              29,282,289            52,289,916



     (i)      this represents a subordinated convertible loan, plus accrued interest, granted to the bank by the   central
             bank of nigeria (cbn) in october 2009 for a period of 7 years. the principal amount is repayable as a bullet
             payment at maturity while interest is payable monthly at mpr (monetary policy rate) minus 3% per annum. the
             loan is convertible to either preference shares or ordinary shares of the bank at the option of the 'cbn and
             becomes exercisable from 61 months after the draw-down date

             the bank commenced the process of making principal repayments in january 2015, with an outstanding
             balance of n6,250,000,000 as at 31 december, 2016, which is the final repayment. however, this was made good
             in january 2017 and the bank has been issued a letter of non-indebtedness by the central bank of nigeria
             subsequently.

     (ii)      the amount represents an intervention credit granted to the bank by the bank of industry (boi), a company
             incorporated in nigeria for the purpose of refinancing or restructuring existing loans to small and medium scale
             enterprises (smes) and manufacturing companies. the total facilities are secured by nigerian government
             securities worth n8,934,491,000 and have a maximum tenor of 15 years.

             a management fee of 1% deductible at source is paid by the bank under the on-lending agreement and the bank
             is under obligation to on-lend to customers at an all-in interest rate of 7% per annum. though the facility is
             meant for on-lending to borrowers in specified sectors, the bank remains the primary obligor to the boi and
             therefore assumes the risk of default of customers.

     (iii)    amount represents salary credit bail out facility from central bank of nigeria. it has a moratorium of twenty
             years at bank's interest rate of 9%. the corresponding entry is in loans and advances and the bank is expected to
             provide central bank of nigeria with periodic progress on the facility. the principal repayment is by bullet
             payment at the expiration of the moratorium granted.

     (iv)     this represents cbn intervention funds to some of the bank's customers in the agricultural sector. the fund is
             administered at a maximum interest rate of 9% per annum. the maximum tenor of the facility is 7 years.




                                                                                            125 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


       (v)    this represents cbn intervention funds to some bank's customers in small & medium scale sector. the fund is
              administered at a maximum interest rate of 9% per annum and maximum tenor of 5 years.

       (vi)   the debt securities of n6,308,474,000 represents amortized cost of the fixed rate unsecured bond issued by
              wema funding spv plc. the outstanding bond of n6,295,000,000 (principal) was issued on 12 october 2016 for a
              period of 7 years at 18.5% per annum with interest payable semi-annually and principal payable at maturity in
              october 2023.

       (vii) this amount represents the bank's foreign facility from shelter afrique, this was granted to the
             bank for a period of 7 years. it is repayable bi-annually with interest rate of l+6.5% (libor plus 6.5%)

31. obligations under finance leases

       leasing arrangements

       the bank leased certain of its motor vehicles and equipment under finance leases. the average lease term is 4 years.
       the bank has acquires automatic ownership on full settlement of all related lease as installments are completed at
       the end of the lease terms.

       the bank's obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors' title to the leased assets.

       interest rates underlying all obligations under finance leases are fixed at respective contract dates
       ranging from 15% to 24% per annum.

       finance lease liabilities                                                                       present value of minimum
                                                                     minimum lease payments
                                                                                                                 lease payments


                                                                       31/12/16         31/12/15         31/12/16         31/12/15
                                                                           n’000           n’000             n’000           n’000


       not later than one year                                             1,044          87,979               932          78,553
       later than one year and not later than five years                        -          1,044                               932
       later than five years                                                    -               -                                -


                                                                           1,044          89,023               932          79,485
       less: future finance charges                                        (112)          (9,426)                -               -


       present value of minimum lease payments                               932          79,597               932          79,485




32     share capital and reserves


(a)     the share capital comprises:
(i)     authorised -
        40,000,000 ordinary shares (2014 -) ordinary
        shares of 50k each (2014)                                           40,000,000              40,000,000          40,000,000
(ii)    issued and fully paid -
        38,574,466,000 ordinary shares (2014-ordinary
        shares of 50k each (2014)                                           19,287,233              19,287,233          19,287,233




126 2016 annual report

                                                                      notes to the financial statements


as approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting of 24th december, 2012 the bank did a special placing
offer to strategic investors to raise additional shares of 26,667,123,333.00 at 1.50kobo per share. the shares have been
allotted and registered with the corporate affairs commission with necessary approval obtained from relevant
regulatory authorities.


                                                                          group                bank                bank
      in thousands of nigerian naira                                  31-dec-16           31-dec-16           31-dec-15


(b)   share premium


      at 1 january                                                   48,870,107          48,870,107          48,870,107
      additions during the year                                                 -                    -                      -
      share issue expenses                                                      -                    -                      -
      at 31 december, 2016                                           48,870,107          48,870,107          48,870,107



(c)    statutory reserves

      nigerian banking regulations require the bank to make an annual appropriation to a statutory reserve. as
      stipulated by s.16(1) of the banks and other financial institution act of nigeria, an appropriation of 30% of
      profit after tax is made if the statutory reserve is less than paid-up share capital and 15% of profit after tax if
      the statutory reserve is greater than the paid up share capital.

(d)   fair value reserve

      the fair value reserve includes the net cumulative change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments
      until the investment is derecognised or impaired.



(e)   smeies reserve

      the smeeis reserve is maintained to comply with the central bank of nigeria (cbn) requirement that all licensed
      banks set aside a portion of the profit after tax in a fund to be used to finance equity investment in qualifying
      small and medium scale enterprises. under the terms of the guideline (amended by cbn letter dated 11 july
      2006), the contributions will be 10% of profit after tax and shall continue after the first 5 years but banks'
      contributions shall thereafter reduce to 5% of profit after tax. however, this is no longer mandatory.

      the bank has suspended further appropriation to smeeis (now known as microcredit fund) reserve account
      in line with the decision reached at the banker's committee meeting and approved by cbn. in prior year,
      10% of profit after taxation was transferred to smeeis reserves in accordance with small and medium
      enterprise equity investment scheme as revised in april 2005."

(f)   retained earnings

      retained earnings are the carried forward recognised income net of expenses plus current period profit
      attributable to shareholders.




                                                                                       127 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements



   in thousands of nigeria naira                                     31-dec-16             31-dec-16             31-dec-15


   at 1 january                                                    (36,017,406)          (36,017,406)          (34,793,663)


   profit or loss                                                     2,560,580            2,591,800             2,273,205



   transfer to regulatory risk reserve                               (4,758,550)          (4,758,550)           (2,852,836)



   transfer to statutory reserve                                      (777,540)             (777,540)             (698,183)


   re-measurement of defined benefit contribution                     (165,850)             (165,850)               54,070


   at 31 december 2016                                             (39,158,766)         (39,127,546)          (36,017,406)




   (g)    regulatory risk reserve

          the regulatory risk reserve warehouses the excess of the impairment on loans and advances computed under
          the nigerian gaap based on the central bank of nigeria prudential guidelines compared with the incurred loss
          model used in calculating the impairment under ifrss.

   33     contingencies

   (i)    litigation and claims

          there are litigation claims against the bank as at 31 december 2016 amounting to n15,282,011,944.97 (31
          december 2015: n9,005,445,799. these litigations arose in the normal course of business and are being
          contested by the bank. the directors, having sought advice of professional counsel, are of the opinion that no
          significant additional liability will crystallise from these claims; other than as recognised in these financial
          statements.

   (ii)   contingent liabilities and commitments

          in common with other banks, the bank conducts business involving acceptances, performance bonds and
          indemnities. the majority of these facilities are offset by corresponding obligations of third parties. contingent
          liabilities and commitments comprise acceptances, endorsements, guarantees and letters of credit.

   nature of instruments

   an acceptance is an undertaking by a bank to pay a bill of exchange drawn on a customer. the bank expects most
   acceptances to be presented, but reimbursement by the customer is normally immediate. endorsements are residual
   liabilities of the bank in respect of bills of exchange, which have been paid and subsequently rediscounted.

   guarantees and letters of credit are given as security to support the performance of a customer to third parties. as the
   bank will only be required to meet these obligations in the event of the customer's default, the cash requirements of
   these instruments are expected to be considerably below their nominal amounts.

   other contingent liabilities include performance bonds and are, generally, short-term commitments to third parties
   which are not directly dependent on the customers' credit worthiness.

   commitments to lend are agreements to lend to a customer in the future, subject to certain conditions. such
   commitments are either made for a fixed period, or have no specific maturity but are cancellable by the lender subject
   to notice requirements.




128 2016 annual report

                                                                        notes to the financial statements


     documentary credits commit the bank to make payments to third parties, on production of documents, which are
     usually reimbursed immediately by customers.

     the following tables summarise the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments with off-


                                                                        group                  bank                bank
     in thousands of nigerian naira                                  31-dec-16            31-dec-16          31-dec-15


     contingent liabilities:
     guarantees and indemnities                                     20,960,058             20,960,058         8,200,675
     bonds                                                           2,266,005              2,266,005           613,339
     clean-line facilities & irrevocable letters of credit          14,300,404             14,300,404        10,242,514

                                                                    37,526,467            37,526,467         19,056,528



34   related party transactions

     transactions with key management personnel

     the bank's key management personnel and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties
     for disclosure purposes. the definition of key management includes close members of family of key personnel and
     any entity over which key management exercise control. the key management personnel have been identified as the
     executive and non-executive directors of the bank. close members of family are those family members who may be
     expected to influence, or be influenced by that individual in their dealings with wema bank plc.

     key management personnel and their immediate relatives transacted with the bank during the year as follows:


     loans and advances:
                                                                        group                  bank                bank
     in thousands of nigerian naira                                 31-dec-16             31-dec-16           31-dec-15


     loans and advances:
     at 1 january                                                  12,898,416            12,898,416           9,707,548
     granted during the period                                         376,782              376,782           6,101,500
     repayments during the year                                    (5,995,969)           (5,995,969)         (2,910,632)


     at 31 december, 2016                                           7,279,229             7,279,229          12,898,416


     interest earned                                                 1,945,013             1,945,013          1,720,895


     deposit liabilities
     deposits                                                          527,000              527,000           2,884,778



     interest rates charged on balances outstanding are rates that would be charged in an arm's length transaction. the
     secured loans granted are secured over real estate, equities and other assets of the respective borrowers. impairment
     losses of n12,084 (2015: n38,903) have been recorded against balances outstanding during the period with key
     management personnel and their immediate relatives at the year end.



     personnel expenses
     compensation for the staff are as follows:



                                                                                        129 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


                                                                   group                  bank               bank

in thousands of nigerian naira                                 31-dec-16             31-dec-16          31-dec-15

employee costs, including executive directors, during
the year is shown below:


wages and salaries                                              7,528,860            7,528,860          7,092,509
pension cost: -
gratuity expenses                                                 451,433              451,433            365,293
defined contribution plans                                        571,937              571,937            628,328
                                                                8,552,230            8,552,230          8,086,130
other staff costs                                               1,800,091            1,800,091          1,758,417

                                                              10,352,321            10,352,321          9,844,548



(a) the average number of persons employed during the period by category:

                                                                 number               number             number
                                                                   group                 bank                bank
                                                               31-dec-16             31-dec-16          31-dec-15


executive directors                                                       5                   5                  6
management                                                             22                    22                 21
non-management                                                        984                  984               1,053

                                                                    1,011                1,011               1,080



employees other than directors, earning more than n200,000 per annum, whose duties were wholly or mainly discharged
in nigeria, received emoluments (excluding pension contributions and certain benefits) in the following ranges:



                                                               number                 number             number
                                                                 group                   bank                bank
                                                             31-dec-16              31-dec-16           31-dec-15
n500,000 - n1,000,000                                                 0                      0                   0
n1,490,001 - n 2,500,000                                              8                      8                   4
n2,510,001 - n 3,020,000                                            129                    129                140
n3,240,001 - n 3,750,000                                            351                    351                367
n3,990,001 - n 4,500,000                                              2                      2                   0
n4,710,001 - n 5,220,000                                            108                    108                119
n5,390,001 - n 5,900,000                                              2                      2                   0
n5,990,001 - n6,600,000                                             101                    101                122
n6,900,001 - n7,710,000                                             109                    109                115
above - n7,710,000                                                  196                    196                208




130 2016 annual report

                                                                           notes to the financial statements


directors' remuneration (excluding pension contributions and
certain benefits) was provided as follows:

in thousands of nigerian naira                                               group               bank                bank
                                                                          31-dec-16          31-dec-16          31-dec-15
executive compensation/fees                                                 227,838            227,838            187,429
other emoluments                                                            206,396            206,396              47,200


                                                                            434,234            434,234            234,629


the directors' remuneration shown above includes:


chairman                                                                     6,266               6,266               6,266


highest paid director                                                       70,050              70,050              70,050


the emoluments of other directors fell within the following ranges:

                                                                           number             number            number


n2,370,001 -   n2,380,000                                                          -                  -                -
n2,720,001 -   n2,730,000                                                          -                  -                -
n3,060,001 -   n5,070,000                                                         6                  6                6
n7,360,001 -   n7,370,000                                                         4                  4                5

staff loans

staff received loans at below the market interest rate. these loans are measured at fair value at initial recogni tion. the
difference between the pv of cash flows discounted at the contractual rate and present value of cash flows discounted
at market rate has been recognised as prepaid employee benefit which is amortised to personnel expense (other staff
cost) over the life of the loan.


key management personnel compensation for the year comprised:


in thousands of nigerian naira                                               group               bank                bank
                                                                          31-dec-16          31-dec-16           31-dec-15


short term employee benefits                                                256,238            256,238              66,781
post-employment benefits                                                    177,996            177,996             206,615
                                                                           434,234             434,234            273,396


transactions with other related parties

31 december 2016                                                  loans         deposits            interest       interest
                                                                                                   received            paid
                                                                   =n’m              =n’m              =n’m           =n’m

leasing partners ltd-principal shareholder                        3,661                  -                927              -
applemark nigeria limited-principal shareholder                     230                  -                 37              -

wemabod estates-principal shareholder                             1,074                277                213              -

petrolex oil & gas limited-principal shareholder                  1,694                207                659              -
gti microfinance bank ltd-principal shareholder                      30                 43                 5               -



                                                                                             131 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


31 december 2015                                        loans   deposits    interest   interest
                                                                           received        paid
                                                        =n’m       =n’m        =n’m       =n’m


leasing partners ltd-principal shareholder              5,025          -        277           -
applemark nigeria limited-principal shareholder         1,685          -         26           -
wemabod estates-principal shareholder                   1,132       342         180           -
remus properties ltd – principal shareholder            1,093      2,543         76           -
inland deepsea port ltd- principal shareholder           459           -         40           -
hibiscus import and exports ltd-principal shareholder    375           -         22           -
romulus associates ltd-principal shareholder             356           -         31           -
baseline entertainment ltd-principal shareholder         305           -         26           -




132 2016 annual report

principal shareholders and their related interests
as at 31st december, 2015
account name                          facility type   relationship                                 director's name             date granted/   expiry date      amortized cost    interest rate         security nature     security value       remarks
                                                                                                                               renewed                       31/12/2016 (n'000)                                                       n'000

petrolex oil & gas limited            term loan       related coy to a principal shareholder       principal shareholder       28-oct-16       31-jan-22              1,693,843                    guarantees & pledges         6,000,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             25

oladipupo olatunde adebutu            term loan       related obligor to a principal shareholder   principal shareholder       18-jul-16       31-jan-18                67,581                          legal mortgage           140,000.00    performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             27

oladipupo olatunde adebutu            term loan       related obligor to a principal shareholder   principal shareholder       23-aug-16       31-jan-18                22,422                          legal mortgage           140,000.00    performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             27

applemark nigeria limited             term loan       serving director                             abubakar r. lawal           12-may-15       31-jan-17               230,333                          legal mortgage           147,000.00    performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             20

samuel oladipupo durojaye             overdraft       serving director                             samuel durojaiye            4-aug-16        3-aug-17                 15,099                          legal mortgage             10,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             25

moruf abiola oseni                    overdraft       serving director                             moruf oseni                 26-jul-16       26-jul-18                  5,675                           domiciliation                        performing
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5                                     6,000.00

premier hotel                         overdraft       related coy to a principal shareholder       odua group                  2-mar-16        1-mar-17                   4,489                           domiciliation            10,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             19

oladipupo olatunde adebutu            overdraft       related obligor to a principal shareholder   principal shareholder       21-oct-14       23-sep-16                  4,775                           domiciliation                        performing
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5                                     6,000.00

oluwole stephen akinleye              overdraft       serving director                             oluwole akinleye            21-apr-16       21-apr-18                   108                            domiciliation                        performing
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5                                     1,500.00

gti microfinance bank limited         overdraft       cross directorship                           abubakar r. lawal           18-mar-16       18-mar-17                30,432                                     cash            41,500.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             18

adebode adefioye                      overdraft       serving director                             adebode adefioye            5-may-16        5-may-18                   2,404                         legal mortgage             50,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             25

adebode adefioye                      overdraft       serving director                             adebode adefioye            5-may-16        5-may-18                     31                          legal mortgage             50,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5

adebode adefioye                      overdraft       serving director                             adebode adefioye            22-nov-16       22-jan-17                  3,180                         legal mortgage             50,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             25

leasing partners limited              term loan       serving director                             abubakar r. lawal           14-jun-16       27-feb-17              2,319,589                   legal mortgage/shares        27,810,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             20

leasing partners limited              term loan       serving director                             abubakar r. lawal           22-jun-16       27-feb-17                21,484                    legal mortgage/shares        27,810,001.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             20

leasing partners limited              overdraft       serving director                             abubakar r. lawal           28-dec-16       31-jan-17              1,319,380                   legal mortgage/shares        27,810,001.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             33

spectrum ventures limited account 2   term loan       cross directorship                           adebode adefioye            29-dec-16       31-jan-17               161,281                            domiciliation          100,000.00    performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             22

segun olaniyi oloketuyi               overdraft       managing director                            segun olaniyi oloketuyi     24-jun-16       24-jun-18                     0                            domiciliation                        performing
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5                                     5,000.00

apexgate nigeria limited              overdraft       cross directorship                           ademola adebise             20-jan-16       20-jan-17                  4,666                     all assets debenture           30,820.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             22

samuel oladipupo durojaye             overdraft       serving director                             samuel durojaiye            29-feb-16       23-feb-18                  2,928                         legal mortgage             10,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5

ademola a adebise                     overdraft       serving director                             ademola abimbola adebise    6-jul-16        20-apr-18                   749                            domiciliation         1,500,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5

segun olaniyi oloketuyi               term loan       managing director                            segun olaniyi oloketuyi     26-jun-14       23-jun-24                50,320                            domiciliation            59,192.59   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             12

oladipupo olat unde adebutu           term loan       related obligor to a principal shareholder   principal shareholder       29-jan-16       31-jul-19                24,654                     guarantees & pledges       200,000,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             21

ademola a adebise                     term loan       serving director                             ademola abimbola adebise    6-mar-14        23-feb-24                56,917                            domiciliation            10,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             20

oladipupo olatunde adebutu            term loan       related obligor to a principal shareholder   principal shareholder       11-may-15       30-apr-18               117,272                          legal mortgage           140,000.00    performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             23

wemabod estates ltd acc 1             term loan       related coy to a principal shareholder       odua group                  5-nov-14        30-nov-21              1,074,309                         legal mortgage          2,000,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             21

segun olaniyi oloketuyi               overdraft       related coy to a principal shareholder       odua group                  29-nov-16       28-may-17                     0                          legal mortgage          2,000,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             21

traderite limited                     overdraft       related coy to the managing director         segun olaniyi oloketuyi     8-jun-16        8-jun-17                 36,698                          legal mortgage             60,300.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                             23

nurudeen adeyemo fagbenro             term loan       ex- director                                 nurudeen adeyemo fagbenro   8-sep-15        8-sep-19                   3,745           22.00              bill of sale                      performing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,000.00

nurudeen adeyemo fagbenro             term loan       ex- director                                 nurudeen adeyemo fagbenro   14-apr-14       23-mar-18                  3,192           22.00           domiciliation                        performing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,120.00

nurudeen adeyemo fagbenro             overdraft       ex- director                                 nurudeen adeyemo fagbenro   14-apr-16       23-mar-18                  1,675                           domiciliation            10,000.00   performing
                                                                                                                                                                                            2.5
                                                                                                                                                                     7,279,229



                                                                                                                                                                                                          133 2016 annual report

unlimited banking transactions from the comfort of
your home or office and even on-the-go with
wemaonline




                                                     with you. all the way.
       2016 annual report

                                                                        notes to the financial statements


35.   contraventions

      the bank contravened the following legislations during the year and paid penalties to the tune of n32,050,000:

      in thousands of nigeria naira

      particulars    nature of contravention                                                                  penalties

      cbn            bng penalty charge iro illegal int. money trf imto                                           30,000
      cbn            penalty iro of aml/cft examnatn-oct12014-31may2015                                            2,000
      cbn            penalty for renditn of daily rturn-jul29-aug19-"16                                               50
                     total                                                                                       32,050


36. events after reporting period

a.    the balance due to central bank of nigeria amounting to n6.42billion (note 30) has been paid by the bank in january,
      2017 and the bank received a letter from the central bank of nigeria on 21 february, 2017 confirming the full
      settlement of the financial accommodation of n50bilion granted to the bank in october,2009.

b.    as a follow up to the resolution at the annual general meeting held on 6 may, 2016 on the proposed scheme of
      arrangement for the reorganization of shareholders' funds of the bank, a no objection order was obtained from the
      financial reporting council nigeria on the capital reorganization subject to certain stipulated conditions therein.
      other regulatory steps for the consummation of the scheme including the approvals of the federal high court to
      convene a court ordered meeting of shareholders to approve the scheme are currently on-going. we hope to
      conclude the process in the next couple of months.




                                                                                         135 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements



risk overview
enterprise risk management

“in the future we will look at risks affecting the whole of an organization and its place in the community. we will address both
upside and downside consequences, and our view will be enterprise-wide, integrated and holistic. the result will be a more
intelligent balance between potential benefits and harms. we will increase the confidence of stakeholders in our
organizations and make them more resilient in a day and age of increased uncertainty. this is the real goal of risk
management.” - felix kloman

introduction

the business activities that wema bank engages in are, by their very nature, risky. the bank profits from the creation of risk
assets and mitigates losses by the effective management of the risks it assumes. consequently, risk management drives
and encompasses all our activities and decisions.

the bank's enterprise risk management (erm) framework is integrated with its governance and compliance framework.
effective governance ensures that risks are understood, managed and communicated in an appropriate manner.
ultimately, the purpose of the bank's enterprise risk management functions is to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor,
report and control all material risks on a timely basis and to assess the adequacy of our capital and liquidity in relation to
our risk profile and market/macroeconomic conditions.

the board, either directly or acting through its committees sets the risk appetite of the bank. the board sets this risk
appetite taking into cognizance our strategic objectives and the risks that the organization is willing to assume in the pursuit
of these objectives. at all points, the board is acutely aware of the fact that while risk appetites and tolerance levels are set
individually for various risks, there is a strong correlation amongst several risks and often these risks reinforce each other.
our policies and processes are aligned with our risk management strategy and established risk appetite.

our employees are encouraged to monitor, assess, report and actively manage risks within their operational spheres.
comprehensive risk registers are maintained and an annual review is undertaken of all business units and process through
the risk and control self-assessment exercise (rcsa). a culture of personal accountability and integrity is encouraged
throughout the organization and employees are encouraged to report observed wrong doings anonymously through
dedicated whistleblowing channels. regular training in all aspects of our risk culture helps to reinforce expected behavior.

risks are identified and documented through the bank's risk map process which sets out the bank's risk profile in relation to
key risk categories in its component business units. identified risks are regularly assessed through the bank's risk appetite
framework, stress testing process and in terms of emerging risks. using the basel ii pillar 1 framework, our credit,
operational and market risks are regularly measured and monitored. other pillar 2 risks are measured and provided for
through our internal capital adequacy assessment process (icaap).

risk management framework and governance

the bank's activities and processes involve the identification, measurement, evaluation, acceptance and management of
risk or combinations of risks. the board, advised by the various board and management risk committees, requires and
encourages a strong risk governance culture which shapes the bank's attitude to risk. we believe that risk management
encompasses the insights delivered by information which facilitate appropriate actions. our annual risk cycle is designed to
give management relevant and timely information from which trends can be observed and evaluated.

the governance structure supporting our risk cycle is designed to deliver the right information, at the right time, to the right
people. the bank adopts a holistic view in the assessment and management of all major risks. we remain vigilant regarding
both known and emerging risks and ensure that we are strong enough to withstand any exogenous shocks. our board risk
committees play a critical role in providing oversight of risk management and ensuring that our risk appetite, risk culture
and risk profile are consistent with and support our strategy to deliver long-term and sustainable growth.

the management of risk is evolving and necessitate a regular review of the effectiveness of each enterprise risk
management component. it is in the light of this that the bank's erm framework is subject to continuous review to ensure
effective and cutting-edge risk management. the review is done in the following ways:

ÿ through continuous self-evaluation and monitoring by the risk management and compliance functions in conjunction
   with internal audit;



136 2016 annual report

                                                                             notes to the financial statements

ÿ and through independent evaluation by external auditors, examiners and consultants.

wema bank runs an automated approach to managing, communicating, and implementing enterprise risk management
policies and procedures across the bank. this provides an integrated and dynamic platform for documenting and
analysing risks, developing mitigation plans, defining controls, and managing continuous risk assessments. it provides
clear visibility on key risk indicators, assessment results, and compliance initiatives. we believe that understanding and
managing our risks and continuously improving our controls are central to the delivery of our strategic objectives.

balancing risk and return

striking a balance between risk and return aims is to minimize the downside, while optimizing the upside with a view to
enhancing shareholders' values, and transmit confidence to our other capital providers and clients, as well as ensure the
overall sustainability of our business. every business activity requires the bank to put capital at risk in exchange for the
possibility of earning a return. in some activities, the level of return is quite predictable, whereas in others it can vary over a
very wide spectrum, ranging from loss to profit.

over the years we have continuously improved our erm framework, to focus on where we take risks. this helps us to:

ÿ   understand the nature of the risks we are taking and the range of possible outcomes under various scenarios
ÿ   understand the capital required to assume these risks
ÿ   understand the range of returns that we can earn on the capital allocated to these risks; and
ÿ   attempt to optimize the risk-adjusted return on investments

our objective of balancing risk, return and capital has led us to enhance substantially our risk management methods, to be
able to identify threats, uncertainties and opportunities and in turn develop mitigation and management strategies to
achieve a desired outcome.

enterprise-wide scenario and stress testing

we use robust and appropriate scenario stress testing to assess the potential impact on the group's capital adequacy and
strategic plans. our stress testing and scenario analysis programme is central to the monitoring of strategic and potential
risks. it highlights the vulnerabilities.

the bank has exposure to the following risks from financial instruments:

ÿ   credit risk
ÿ   liquidity risk
ÿ   market risk
ÿ   operational risk

this note presents information about the bank's exposure to each of the above risks, the bank's objectives, policies and
processes for measuring and managing risk and the bank's management of capital

enterprise risk managementreport

in the course of the financial year ended 31 december, 2014, the bank reviewed its enterprise risk management structure
and decided to embark on a transformation of its entire risk management process to align with international best practice
by introducing new units and re-invigorating the existing ones. the bank also instituted the process for review and
implementation on its enterprise risk framework as well as deployment of a new lending solution that will improve the
quality of its risk assets.

the enterprise risk management division has enhanced its staff compliments to further improve on the quality of risk
assets and identify, analyze, measure and control economic impact of risks on the bank's assets or earning capacity.
the bank's enterprise risk management comprises six (6) functional departments, namely:

ÿ   credit risk management
ÿ   operational risk management
ÿ   market and liquidity risk management
ÿ   remedial asset management




                                                                                               137 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


ÿ loan review and monitoring

the bank's corporate vision, mission and objectives remain the fulcrum around which the risk management strategies
revolve, these include:

ÿ   definition of strategic objectives;
ÿ   proactive portfolio planning;
ÿ   proactive control over money and capital market activities;
ÿ   proactive account planning;
ÿ   conduct of consistent portfolio review;
ÿ   regular conduct of macro-economic review;
ÿ   institution of robust it - driven operational process; and
ÿ   definition of risk and return preferences.

the various risk management related committees and sub committees of the board and management improved
substantially in the discharge of their statutory and oversight functions. the committees include:

ÿ   the board risk
ÿ   the management risk committee (mrc);
ÿ   the board credit committee (bcc);
ÿ   the management credit committee (mcc);
ÿ   the asset and liability committee (alco);
ÿ   the executive committee (exco);

credit risk management

overview

credit risk refers to the probability of loss due to a borrower's failure to make payments on any type of debt. credit risk
management is the practice of mitigating losses by understanding the adequacy of a bank's capital and loan loss reserves at
any given time.

the credit risk management of the bank is mainly concerned with generation of profits, which are commensurate with the
risks being undertaken to meet the bank's target returns on assets and investment.

the credit risk management functions of the bank involve credit analysis and credit quality assurance process principally to
identify and mitigate the risks inherent in the system. secondly, it involves credit administration and loan review to ensure
that the quality of the aggregate risk asset portfolio is not compromised from disbursement to full payback.

credit risk management helps to guide lending officers in balancing the quality and quantity of the loan portfolio of the bank
to achieve earnings objectives while also meeting appropriate credit needs, maintaining proper credit standards, holding
risk to reasonable limits, minimizing losses, evaluating new business opportunities, adjusting to changes in the regulatory
environment and providing adequate liquidity.

the bank's credit risk management objective is to enable us have high quality and well diversified risk asset portfolio, which
will:

ÿ generate profits which are commensurate with the risks and meet the bank's target return on assets;
ÿ enable the bank to identify potential problem risk assets thus keeping non-performing assets and charge-offs to the
    barest possible;
ÿ adhere (as much as practicable) to directives concerning exposure to industries/sectors identified to be strategic.

to achieve these objectives, the bank does the following:

ÿ   identify target markets
ÿ   determine its risk appetite and appropriate returns;
ÿ   structure and develop products that will meet clients' requirements but with minimal risk to the bank;
ÿ   manage the risk asset portfolio effectively and efficiently.

in wema bank, credit risk management is guided by the following;




138 2016 annual report

                                                                             notes to the financial statements



trust and integrity

individuals and companies place their funds with us trusting our integrity in managing these funds. this integrity flows
through everything the bank does. any break in the chain of “continuous integrity, no matter how small and no matter
where; will eventually lead to the decline of the bank - if it is not checked.” the bank will not take any action that may
compromise its integrity.

it is easy to forget the importance of integrity. in credit functions, you are far removed from the depositors who have
entrusted their money to you. as the funds you lend come from so many sources, you often feel no specific responsibility.
as a banker, we must make conscious effort to continuously strengthen our integrity. the name wema bank is a constant
reminder of this need.

two examples of the application of the integrity principle are, avoiding conflicts of interest (for instance loans to the bank's
auditors) and complying with government regulations.

understanding risk

the bank's main activity is to manage risk. risk, simply defined, is the variability of possible outcomes. for every
transaction, you must learn to identify and optimize returns from all risks undertaken. risk in this sense is an opportunity
once fully understood.

one method is to think through the transaction step by step. at each point ask what could go wrong and how can i:

ÿ alert myself to the event.
ÿ identify inherent risks and minimize unwanted risks/outcomes.
ÿ optimize returns from risks undertaken.

it is this principle that guides us to always have at least two separate ways out of a loan.

matching risk and return

for every risk the bank takes we must have a matching return for taking that risk. all too often we take the interest and fees
we charge as fixed and simply apply our efforts to structuring a credit. in many instances the return on the credit is far too
low for the risk of lending. for instance, a 10% profit margin on a loan is a small compensation for losing the whole loan. it
would take the profit of 10 good loans just to break even. in this situation, our success rate must be over 90% of all loans.

however, in special cases we might decide to have an exposure to a company at a low return with the expectation of
getting other business accounts which will improve our profitability from the relationship.

delinquent loans are costly to manage. from experience, a bad loan takes more than ten times as much management
effort as a good loan. for every bad loan, the opportunity cost in lost income from other activities is very high. bad loans
are a major drag on a bank's efficiency.

independent verification

a guiding principle of credit is that all information should be independently verified. this may involve an external expert or
a skilled member of staff. independently verified information helps to reduce risk considerably.

an important aspect of independent verification is the separation of controls. for instance, the person who prepares a
credit should not be the one who approves it.



complying with government regulations

a key principle of credit policy is that the bank will always comply with all government regulations. this principle is based
on several factors. the bank operates under a license. the terms of the license call for compliance with government
regulations. by not complying, we not only breach our contract with the authorities, we also risk losing our license or
incurring penalties.




                                                                                               139 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

also, if we assume that government regulations are in the best interest of the country, then we work against this interest
when we break them. if we break regulations and this information reaches the market, then our reputation will be
diminished. the fall in reputation could result in lost business and reduced profit. considering all the negative results of
breaking regulations, we are much better off complying with them.



credit risk policies

the following are the principal credit policies of the bank:

target market & client focus policy

establishing a target market and focusing on clients forms the basis of a strong business and credit relationships. we do not
intend to meet all the finance needs of all customers. we shall thus focus our efforts on target markets specifically chosen
by us after detailed studies.

the target markets are the industries a credit team concentrates its marketing efforts on. client focus identifies the specific
customers within that target market for whom we wish to be the primary bank. lending to these customers will be
dependent on their meeting our risk acceptance criteria (rac).

building a profitable, high quality credit portfolio should be the key aim of every account officer. a good account officer is
not one that aims at winning and retaining any client at all costs but the one that learns to say “no' not just to low quality
credit proposals but also to those credit requests that do not fit into our corporate strategy.

credit concentration risk policy

credit concentration risk refers to any single exposure or group of exposures with the potential to result in large losses
which may impair the bank's earnings or capital because of significant credit risk events affecting the single obligor or group
of obligors with similar business or risk profile.

basel ii recognizes that credit risk concentrations are the single most important cause of major problems in banks globally.
credit concentration risk is defined in the basel ii accord as “any single exposure or group of exposures with the potential to
produce losses large enough (relative to a bank's capital, total assets, or overall risk level) to threaten a bank's health or
ability to maintain its core operations.”

responsibilities of business and credit risk management

in wema bank, business units and credit risk management have a joint responsibility for the overall accuracy of risk ratings
assigned to obligors and facilities. business relationship managers will be responsible for deriving the orr using approved
methods as set out in the bank's policy, however credit risk management will validate such ratings.

credit risk management is responsible for reviewing and ensuring the correctness of the orr assigned to a borrower and
facilities. this review includes ensuring the ongoing consistency of the business' risk rating process; ongoing appropriate
application of the risk rating process and tools; review of judgmental and qualitative inputs into the risk rating process;
ensuring the timeliness and thoroughness of risk rating reviews; and ensuring that the documentation of the risk rating
process is complete and current. in wema bank, credit risk management has the final authority if there is a question about
a specific rating.

credit process

wema bank's credit process starts with target market identification and portfolio planning. credit requests are initiated by
the strategic business units, and the credit requests are subjected to review and approvals by applicable credit approving
authorities. further to appropriate approvals, loans are disbursed to beneficiaries.

monitoring of facilities is undertaken by both the strategic business units and the bank's loan review and monitoring
department. the process is centralized.

credit risk rating policy

a risk rating is a grade given to a loan (or a group of loans), reflecting its quality. risk ratings are usually in numbers. for
instance, risk ratings range from aaa to d, where aaa represents a loan of highest quality and d represents a loan of lowest




140 2016 annual report

                                                                             notes to the financial statements


quality. risk classifications are in form of interpretation such as extremely low risk, average risk, high risk, substandard
or lost. in many cases both ways of assessing risks are used together.

as the bank manages a large number of loans, by giving each one a grade or risks rating, a number of processes can be
performed more effectively.



risk rating methods and process

the credit rating of the obligors plays a vital role in final credit decisions as well as in the terms offered for successful loan
applications.

wema bank employs a robust credit rating system in the determination of the obligor and inherent risks and thus allows
the bank to maintain its asset quality at a desired level.

as the bank manages a large number of loans, by giving each one a grade or risks rating, a number of processes can be
performed more effectively. these processes include:

1.   measuring the riskiness of the total portfolio of loans (for instance a weighted average).
2.   monitoring the trend in the quality of loans (for instance from january to december average risk rating fell 2 points
     from b to cc).
3.   establishing guidelines for risk based pricing (e.g. rating a may be priced as prime while rating c may be priced at
     prime + 3%).
4.   providing performance measures (for instance, recognition could be given to the team with the lowest average risk
     rating).
5.   providing criteria for taking action on loans (for instance all loans of risk rating ccc will be mentioned at mcc to ensure
     they do not deteriorate further).

6.   providing early warning signals, which lead to early detection of problems and opportunity for remedy.

once established, a risk rating system can have many benefits. however, to be effective, the rating process must be
credible, consistent, reliable, objective and efficient.

risk rating metrics

the bank's risk rating scale is detailed below:




 risk classification                                    risk grade                                               risk weight
 extremely low risk                                     aaa                                                           9.0 – 10.0
 very low risk                                          aa-                                                            8.0 – 8.9

 low risk                                               a                                                              7.0 – 7.9
 above average risk                                     bbb                                                            6.0 – 6.9

 average risk                                           bb                                                             5.5 – 5.9

 below average risk                                     b                                                              5.0 – 5.4
 high risk/ watchlist                                   ccc                                                            4.5 – 4.9
 very high risk/ substandard                            cc                                                             4.0 – 4.4
 extremely high risk/doubtful                           c                                                              3.5 – 3.9
 bad and lost                                           d                                                             below 3.5




                                                                                              141 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


credit risk rating models in wema bank

the following are the credit risk rating models deployed by the bank.

obligor risk rating models have been developed for:

1.    retail exposures
2.    commercial exposures
3.    corporate exposures

facility risk rating models have been developed for:

1.    probability of default
2.    loss given default
2.    exposure at default

credit approval and lending authorities

the key objective of wema bank lending is to make profits. in making a credit decision a relationship manager must have
sufficient information to evaluate a potential borrower's character, collateral, capital and capacity. they must also
understand the external conditions, which will affect the borrower's ability to meet their financial obligations. to ensure
that decisions to lend are made at levels that reflect the size and complexity of the loans, different loan amounts fall under
special approval authorities. the proper lending authority must approve all facilities, loans and commitments to all clients.

the lending authority in the bank shall flow through the management hierarchy with the final authority residing in the
board of directors.

the bank maintains internal credit approval limits for various levels of authority in the credit process. the current position
as approved by the board and management is as shown in the table below:

authority level                                            approval limit
board                                                      above n1.5 billion
board credit committee                                     n1.5 billion
management credit committee                                n500 million
managing director                                          n150 million

some other specific control and mitigation measures are outlined below:

collateral

in line with the bank's credit policy, security is taken for all credits granted. in order to ensure adequacy of collateral in the
event of default of principal loan and interest, the bank's policy requires a minimum of 150% of the forced sale value (fsv)
of all non-cash collateral and 110% cover for cash collaterised loans.

furthermore, in order to ensure credibility and integrity of security valuation, the bank has limited acceptable security
valuation to two (2) prominent accredited estate valuers in nigeria.

the major types of collateral acceptable for loan and advances include:

1.   mortgages over residential properties;
2.   charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts receivable;
3.   charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and equities.
4.   cash

longer-term finance and lending to corporate entities as well as individuals are generally secured. in addition, in order to
minimise the credit loss, the bank will seek additional collateral from the counterparty as soon as loss indicators are
noticed for the relevant loans and advances.

collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and advances is determined by the nature of the
instrument. debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the exception of asset- backed
securities and similar instruments, which are secured by portfolios of financial instruments.




142 2016 annual report

                                                                        notes to the financial statements

an estimate of the fair value of any collateral and other security enhancements held against loans and advances to
customers and banks is shown below:


in thousands of nigerian naira                                        group                  bank                  bank
                                                                  31-dec-16             31-dec-16             31-dec-15

against individually impaired                                      9,681,182             9,681,182             4,129,530
against collectively impaired                                   215,354,734           215,354,734           259,364,161
total                                                           225,035,916           225,035,916           263,493,691
against individually impaired:
property                                                           6,756,216             6,756,216             2,538,400
equities                                                            200,000               200,000               288,191
cash                                                                264,444               264,444                315,154
debenture on stock and companies’ assets                           2,460,522             2,460,522              987,785

                                                                  9,681,182             9,681,182             4,129,530

against collectively impaired:
property                                                        148,996,832           148,996,832            73,189,628
equities                                                           5,789,950            5,789,950              8,052,822
cash                                                             22,993,649            22,993,649            14,889,541
debenture on stock and companies’ assets                         37,624,303            37,624,303           163,232,170

                                                                215,354,734           215,354,734           259,364,161


master netting arrangements

as a matter of policy and practice, the bank takes advantage of netting/set off arrangements to settle gaps emanating from
outstanding balances in favour and/or against defaulting counter parties.
credit-related commitments

the bank consistently deploys robust asset and liability management strategies to ensure its cash and contingent
commitments are easily honoured as and when due. adequate steps are also taken to effectively optimize gaps deriving
from undrawn commitments.




                                                                                        143 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

credit concentration

the bank monitors concentrations of credit risk by sector and by geographic location. an analysis of concentrations of
credit risk at the reporting date is shown below:

group

                                     loans and                                                         cash and cash
                                                       investment          pledged        trading
                                    advances to                                                          equivalents
                                                         securities          assets        assets
                                     customers                                                          (placements)
31 december 2016
in thousands of nigerian naira
carrying amount, net of
                                    227,008,550         61,837,870       16,419,725       238,036           5,265,970
allowance for impairment

concentration by sector
corporate:
finance & insurance                   3,332,987                                                             5,265,970
real estate and construction         69,603,441
oil and gas                          41,047,175
government                           13,387,924         60,026,133       16,419,725       238,036
manufacturing                        11,606,498
general                              17,067,440
others                               59,477,866          1,811,737
retail:
mortgage                                395,692
others                               11,089,528

                                    227,008,550         61,837,870       16,419,725       238,036           5,265,970

concentration by location:
nigeria                             227,008,550         61,837,870       16,415,725       238,036           5,265,970
                                    227,008,550         61,837,870       16,415,725       238,036           5,265,970


bank
                                       loans and                                                       cash and cash
                                                           investmen           pledged     trading
                                      advances to                                                        equivalents
                                                          t securities           assets     assets
                                       customers                                                        (placements)

31 december 2016
in thousands of nigerian naira
carrying amount, net of allowance
                                       227,008,550         59,030,562       16,419,725      238,036         5,265,970
for impairment

concentration by sector
corporate:
finance & insurance                      3,332,987                                                          5,265,970
real estate and construction            69,603,441
oil and gas                             41,047,175
government                              13,387,924         57,218,825        16,419,725     238,036
manufacturing                           11,606,498
general                                 17,067,440
others                                  59,477,866          1,811,737
retail:
mortgage                                   395,692
others                                  11,089,528


                                       227,008,550         59,030,562       16,419,725      238,036         5,265,970

concentration by location:
nigeria                                227,008,550         59,030,562       16,415,725      238,036         5,265,970
                                       227,008,550         59,030,562       16,415,725      238,036         5,265,970



144 2016 annual report

                                                                           notes to the financial statements

                                           loans and                                                          cash and cash
                                                            investment           pledged          trading
bank                                      advances to                                                           equivalents
                                                              securities           assets          assets
                                           customers                                                           (placements)
 31 december 2015
in thousands of nigerian naira



carrying amount, net of allowance for
                                          185,596,590        36,418,779       16,455,942        4,688,492         17,394,364
impairment

concentration by sector
corporate:
finance & insurance                         10,288,724
real estate and construction                54,836,244
oil and gas                                 32,294,563
government                                  10,089,386       30,868,682       16,455,942        4,688,492
manufacturing                                8,945,740
general                                     27,894,640
others                                      26,829,565        5,550,097
retail:
mortgage                                       447,314
others                                      13,970,414
                                          185,596,590        36,418,779       16,455,942       4,688,492         17,394,364

concentration by                                                                                                 35,235,744
location: nigeria                         185,596,590        36,418,779       16,455,942       4,688,492         35,235,744
                                          185,596,590        36,418,779       16,455,942       4,688,492         17,394,364


credit definitions

i.     impaired loans and investment securities

       impaired loans and securities are loans and securities for which the bank determines that it is probable that it will
       be unable to collect all principal and interest due according to the contractual terms of the loan / securities
       agreement(s). these are loans and securities specifically impaired and are graded cc, c and d in the bank's
       internal credit risk grading system.

ii.    allowances for impairment

       the bank establishes an allowance for impairment losses that represents its estimate of incurred losses in its loan
       portfolio. the main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant
       exposures and a collective loan loss allowance, established for groups of homogeneous assets in respect of losses
       that have been incurred but have not been identified on loans subject to individual assessment for impairment.

iii.   write-off policy

       the bank writes off a loan / security balance (and any related allowances for impairment losses) when bank
       management credit committee determines that the loans / securities are uncollectible. this determination is
       reached after considering information such as the occurrence of significant changes in the borrower / issuer's
       financial position such that the borrower / issuer can no longer pay the obligation, or that proceeds from
       collateral will not be sufficient to pay back the entire exposure. for smaller balance standardised loans, charge off
       decisions are generally based on a product specific past due status.

all loans and advances are categorised as either:

ÿ collectively impaired
ÿ individually impaired

the impairment allowance includes allowances against financial assets that have been individually impaired and those
subjects to collective impairment.




                                                                                            145 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

exposure to credit risk
                                                                                    non-        cash and
                                   loans and
                                                 investment                      pledged            cash
 group                            advances to                   pledged assets
                                                   securities                    trading     equivalents
                                   customers
                                                                                   assets   (placements)
 31-dec-16


 in thousands of nigerian naira
 carrying amount, net of
                                  227,008,550     61,837,870        16,419,725   238,036       5,265,970
 allowance for impairment


 assets at amortised cost:        229,840,981
 individually impaired:
 a
 aa                                 2,787,640
 bbb
 bbb-                                 115,096
 bb+                                   83,162
 bb                                   323,194
 b                                    245,605
 ccc                                        0
 cc                                 1,726,615
 c                                          0
 d                                          0
 gross amount                       5,281,312


 allowance for impairment          (2,136,250)
 carrying amount, net of
                                    3,145,062
 allowance for impairment


 collectively impaired:
 aaa
 aa                                   363,900     58,679,662        16,419,725   238,036       5,265,970
 a                                 59,838,149
 bbb                               97,755,628
 bbb-                               4,486,918
 bbb+                               4,813,678
 bb                                12,477,754
 b                                 44,634,352
 ccc                                        0
 cc                                   189,290
 c                                          0
 d                                          0
 gross amount                     224,559,669     58,679,662        16,419,725   238,036       5,265,970
 allowance for impairment            (696,181)
 carrying amount, net of
                                  223,863,488     58,679,662        16,419,725   238,036       5,265,970
 allowance for impairment


 available-for-sale assets
 (afs):
 grade aaa-a: low risk                             3,005,125
 grade ccc-d: high risk                              153,083
 allowance for impairment
 carrying amount, net of
                                                   3,158,208
 allowance for impairment
 total carrying amount, net
 of allowance for                 227,008,550     61,837,870        16,419,725   238,036       5,265,970
 impairment




146 2016 annual report

                                                          notes to the financial statements

                                                                            non-
                             loans and                                              cash and cash
                                                            pledged      pledged
bank                        advances to    investment                                 equivalents
                                                              assets     trading
                             customers       securities                              (placements)
                                                                           assets
31-dec-16

in thousands of nigerian
naira
carrying amount, net of
                            227,008,550     59,030,562    16,419,725     238,036        5,265,970
allowance for impairment


assets at amortised cost:   227,008,550
individually impaired:
a
aa                            2,787,640
bbb
bbb-                            115,096
bb+                              83,162
bb                              323,194
b                               245,605
ccc                                   0
cc                            1,726,615
c                                     0
d                                     0
gross amount                  5,281,312
allowance for impairment     (2,136,250)

carrying amount, net of
                              3,145,062
allowance for impairment

collectively impaired:
aaa
aa                              363,900     55,871,354    16,419,725     238,036        5,265,970
a                            59,838,149
bbb                          97,755,628
bbb-                          4,486,918
bbb+                          4,813,678
bb                           12,477,754
b                            44,634,352
ccc                                   0
cc                              189,290
c                                     0
d                                     0
gross amount                224,559,669     55,871,354    16,419,725     238,036        5,265,970
allowance for impairment       (696,181)

carrying amount, net of
                            223,863,488     55,871,354    16,419,725     238,036        5,265,970
allowance for impairment


available-for-sale assets
(afs):
grade aaa-a: low risk                        3,005,125
grade ccc-d: high risk                         154,083
allowance for impairment
carrying amount, net of
                                             3,159,208
allowance for impairment
total carrying amount,
net of allowance for        227,008,550     59,030,562    16,419,725     238,036        5,265,970
impairment



                                                                       147 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

                                                                                                            cash and
                                               loans and                                 non-pledged
                                                             investment       pledged                           cash
bank                                          advances to                                    trading
                                                               securities       assets                   equivalents
                                               customers                                       assets
                                                                                                        (placements)
31-dec-15


in thousands of nigerian naira
carrying amount, net of allowance for
                                              185,596,590     36,418,779    16,455,942      4,688,492     17,394,364
impairment


assets at amortised cost:                     185,596,590
individually impaired:


a
bbb                                                                     -            -              -              -
bb                                                                      -            -              -              -
b                                                                       -            -              -              -
ccc                                               830,933               -            -              -              -
cc                                                960,403               -            -              -              -
c                                                 394,486               -            -              -              -
d                                                 436,500               -            -              -              -
gross amount                                    2,622,322               -            -              -              -
allowance for impairment                       (1,327,916)              -            -              -              -
carrying amount, net of allowance for
                                                1,294,406               -            -              -              -
impairment


collectively impaired:
aaa
aa                                             26,633,295     28,788,649    16,455,942      4,688,492     17,394,364
a                                              76,796,318               -            -              -              -
bbb                                            50,931,682               -            -              -              -
bb                                             15,375,149               -            -              -              -
b                                              11,646,634
ccc                                             3,058,982               -            -              -              -
cc                                                898,435               -            -              -              -
c                                                  60,105               -            -              -              -
d                                                        -              -            -              -              -
gross amount                                  185,400,600     28,788,649    16,455,942      4,688,492     17,394,364
allowance for impairment                       (1,098,416)             -             -              -              -
carrying amount, net of allowance for         184,302,184               -            -              -              -
impairment                                               -
available-for-sale assets (afs):
grade aaa-a: low risk                                    -     7,481,865             -              -              -
grade ccc-d: high risk                                   -       148,265             -              -              -
allowance for impairment                                 -              -            -              -              -
carrying amount, net of allowance for                    -     7,630,131             -              -              -
impairment
total carrying amount, net of allowance for
                                              185,596,590     36,418,779    16,455,942      4,688,492     17,394,364
impairment




148 2016 annual report

                                                                          notes to the financial statements




market risk management
overview

this is the risk that movement in market factors, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices
and commodity prices, will reduce our income and capital or the value of our on/off balance sheet portfolios.

exposure to market risk

exposure to market risk is separated into two portfolios:

ÿ trading portfolios comprise positions arising from market making.
  ÿ the models/tools used to measure and control traded market risk (interest rate and foreign exchange risk) include
       daily valuation of positions, limit monitoring, sensitivity analysis, value-at-risk, and stress testing analyses amongst
       others.

ÿ non-trading portfolios comprise positions that primarily arise from the interest rate management of our retail and
   commercial banking assets and liabilities, financial investments designated as available-for-sale (afs) and held-to-
   maturity (htm).
   ÿ the principal objective of market risk management of non-trading portfolios is to optimize net interest income.

wema bank is exposed to market risk arising from positions created in its trading and banking books. where appropriate,
we apply similar risk management policies and measurement techniques to both trading and non-trading portfolios.

one of the primary objectives of market risk management, as part of our independent risk function, is to ensure that our
business units' risk exposure is within the approved appetite commensurate with its defined strategy. to achieve this
objective, market risk management works closely with risk takers (“the business units”) and other control and support
groups.

market risk governance

market risk management governance is designed and established to promote oversight of all market risks, effective
decision-making and timely escalation to senior management and board. market risk management defines and
implements a framework to systematically identify, assess, monitor and report our market risk vulnerabilities. market risk
managers identify market risks through active portfolio analysis and engagement with the business areas.

market risk is managed and controlled in wema bank through policies and limits approved by the board (brac). these
policies and limits ensure that risks faced across business activities and on an aggregate basis are within the stipulated risk
appetite of the bank, while taking cognizance of regulatory constraints.

the specific limits are proposed by the head, market risk management through the chief risk officer (cro) and approved
by the relevant management committees, and ultimately by the board (brac).

the risk reporting framework involves presentation of reports to the asset and liability committee (alco), management
risk committee (mrc) and board risk & audit committee (brac). the management committees receive periodic market
risk reports and recommendations, while relevant reports are presented to the board risk & audit committee (brac) on a
quarterly basis.

exposures to market risks are managed through various metrics/models such as re-pricing gap, ratio, value at risk, earning
at risk (ear), economic value of equity (eve), sensitivity and scenario analysis, amongst others. also, the bank regularly
conduct stress testing to monitor its vulnerability to very extreme, but plausible shocks.

in line with the cbn circular on basel ii/iii capital framework, the bank adopts the standardized approach for market risk
regulatory capital requirement. also, the bank has put in place a detailed plan for the full implementation of basel ii/iii
framework with timelines for migration to more advance capital computation methods in the future.




                                                                                            149 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements



market risk measures

monitoring and limiting market risk exposures

we aim to accurately measure all types of market risks by a comprehensive set of risk metrics reflecting economic and
regulatory requirements.

in accordance with economic and regulatory requirements, we measure market risks by several internally developed key
risk metrics/tools and regulatory defined market risk approaches.

limits setting

specific limits and triggers (regulatory and internal) have been set across the various market risk areas to prevent undue
market risk exposures. market risk management ensures that these limits and triggers are adhered to by the bank at all
times.

the following limits amongst others currently exist:

•         open position limits
•         interbank placement limits (dpls):
•         management action triggers (mats)
•         stop loss limit
•         dealer limits
•         deal authorization limits
•         value-at-risk limits

mark-to-market (mtm)

the mark-to-market technique establishes unrealized profit/loss by revaluing open traded positions at prevailing market
prices. when no market prices are available for a specific contract period, mark-to-model is used to derive the relevant
market prices. it is the bank's policy to revalue all exposures under the traded market risk portfolio on a daily basis. as a
general guide, marking to market is performed independently of the trading unit.

sensitivity analysis

sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios,
including interest rates and foreign exchange rates, such as the effect of a one basis point change in yield. we use
sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions within each risk type. sensitivity limits are set for portfolios,
products and risk types, with the depth of the market being a principal factor in determining the level.

value at risk

value at risk ('var') is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates
and prices over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence. the use of var is integrated into market risk
management and calculated for all trading positions. in addition, we calculate var for non-trading portfolios to have a
complete picture of risk. where we do not calculate var explicitly, we use alternative tools as highlighted in the 'stress
testing' section below.

our models are predominantly based on historical and parametric simulations which incorporate the following features:

ÿ historical market rates and prices are calculated with reference to foreign exchange rates, interest rates, and the
    associated volatilities;
ÿ potential market movements utilised for var are calculated with reference to data from the past five years; and
ÿ var measures are calculated to a 99% confidence level and use a one-day holding period.

the nature of the var models means that an increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in var without
any changes in the underlying positions.

var model limitations

although a valuable guide to risk, var should always be viewed in the context of its limitations. for example:



150 2016 annual report

                                                                             notes to the financial statements

ÿ     use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events may not encompass all potential events, particularly
      extreme ones;
ÿ     the use of a holding period assumes that all positions can be liquidated or the risks offset during that period, which may
      not fully reflect the market risk arising at times of severe illiquidity, when the holding period may be insufficient to
      liquidate or hedge all positions fully;
ÿ     the use of a 99% confidence level does not take into account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence;
      and
ÿ     var is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of business and therefore does not necessarily
      reflect intra-day exposures.

risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and incorporated directly in the var models, where possible.

stresstesting

stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated into our market risk management framework to evaluate the
potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or movements in a set of financial
variables. in such scenarios, losses can be much greater than those predicted by var modelling. scenarios are tailored to
capture the relevant potential events or market movements for risk factors. the risk appetite around potential stress
losses for the bank is set and monitored. market risk reverse stress tests are undertaken on the premise that there is a fixed
loss. the stress testing process identifies which scenarios lead to this loss. the rationale behind the reverse stress test is to
understand scenarios that are beyond normal business settings and could have contagion and systemic implications.
stressed var and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing and the management of gap risk, provide
management with insights regarding the 'tail risk' beyond var, for which wema bank's appetite is limited.

back-testing

we routinely validate the accuracy of our var models by backtesting them against both actual and hypothetical profit and
loss against the corresponding var numbers. hypothetical profit and loss excludes non-modelled items such as fees,
commissions and revenues of intra-day transactions. we would expect, on average, to see two or three losses in excess of
var at the 99% confidence level over a one-year period. the actual number of losses in excess of var over this period can
therefore be used to gauge how well the models are performing.

structural foreign exchange exposures

structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in currencies other than the naira. exchange differences
on structural exposures are recognised in 'other comprehensive income'. we use the naira as our presentation currency in
our consolidated financial statements. our consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange differences
between the naira and all other currencies underlying our day to day operations. our structural foreign exchange
exposures are managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our capital ratios are largely protected
from the effect of changes in exchange rates.


foreign currency concentrations risk as at 31 december 2016

exchange rate exposure limits

group
                                              us dollar        euro       pound              naira     others              total
    in thousands of nigerian naira
     31 december 2016
    cash and cash equivalents                11,382,877     751,423      652,703       14,785,517       51,425       27,623,945
    pledged assets                                    -           -            -       16,419,725            -       16,419,725
    non-pledged trading assets                        -           -            -          238,036            -          238,036
    loans and advances to customers          21,787,364           -            -      205,221,186            -      227,008,550
    investment securities                             -           -            -       61,837,870            -       61,837,870
    other assets                                661,228           -            -        2,546,563            -        3,207,791

    total financial assets                  33,831,469      751,423      652,703      301,048,897      51,425       336,335,917

    deposits from banks                               -           -            -       37,433,906            -       37,433,906
    deposit from customers                    5,634,251     322,679      266,638      277,074,445        4,591      283,302,604
    other borrowed funds                      3,050,000           -            -       29,043,404            -       32,093,404
    other liabilities                        12,735,521     378,145       26,568        9,251,642          881       22,392,756
    total financial liabilities             21,419,772      700,824      293,206      352,803,397        5,472      375,222,671



                                                                                             151 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

bank

                                          us dollar           euro        pound            naira     others             total

in thousands of nigerian naira


31 december 2016
cash and cash equivalents                11,382,877        751,423       652,703    14,770,280       51,425        27,608,708
pledged assets                                     -                 -         -    16,419,725            -        16,419,725
non-pledged trading assets                         -                 -         -         238,036          -          238,036
loans and advances to customers          21,787,364                  -         -   205,221,186            -       227,008,550
investment securities                              -                 -         -    59,030,562            -        59,030,562
other assets                                661,228                  -         -        2,546,563         -         3,207,791

total financial assets                   33,831,469        751,423       652,703   298,226,352       51,425       333,513,372


deposits from banks                                -                 -         -    37,433,906            -        37,433,906
deposit from customers                    5,634,251        322,679       266,638   277,100,056        4,591       283,328,215
other borrowed funds                      3,050,000                  -         -    26,232,289            -        29,282,289

other liabilities                        12,735,521        377,213        26,568        9,184,313       881        22,324,496
total financial liabilities              21,419,772        699,892       293,206   349,950,564        5,472       372,368,906



bank
                                           us dollar         euro        pound              naira      others           total
   in thousands of nigerian naira


   31 december 2015
   cash and cash equivalents               6,319,880       306,835       530,392        49,204,504     221,999     56,583,610
   pledged assets                                      -         -             -        16,455,942            -    16,455,942
   non-pledged trading assets                          -         -             -         4,688,492            -     4,688,492

   loans and advances to customers        12,566,714             -             -    173,029,876               -   185,596,590

   investment securities                               -         -             -        36,418,779            -    36,418,779

   other assets                            1,261,873             -             -         2,932,889            -     4,194,762

   total financial assets                 20,148,467       306,835       530,392    282,730,482        221,999 303,938,175


   deposits from banks
   deposit from customers                  5,366,196       215,240       263,208    278,939,826        193,365    284,977,835
   other borrowed funds                    1,993,000             -             -        50,296,916            -    52,289,916
   other liabilities                       9,729,710        91,594       267,184         2,832,150     108,119     13,028,757

   total financial liabilities            17,088,907       306,835       530,392    332,068,892        301,484 350,296,508


interest rate risk in the banking book

a major component of market risk exposures in the bank is the interest rate in the banking book. interest rate risk is the
exposure of the bank's financial condition to adverse movements in interest rates or yield curves. the bank is exposed to
interest rate risk through the interest-bearing assets and liabilities in its trading and banking books.

measurement of interest rate risk in the banking book

interest rate risk in the banking book is measured and controlled using four metrics:

ÿ non-traded var;
ÿ re-pricing gap analysis


152 2016 annual report

                                                                          notes to the financial statements

ÿ net interest income sensitivity; and
ÿ economic value of equity.

re-pricing gap analysis

this allows the bank to maintain a positive or negative gap depending upon the forecast of interest rate position. the size
of the gap is then adjusted to either hedge net interest income against changing interest rates or to anticipate increase net
interest income, in line with market outlook

net interest income sensitivity

a principal part of our management of non-traded interest rate risk is to monitor the sensitivity of expected net interest
income under varying interest rate scenarios (simulation modelling), where all other economic variables are held
constant. projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the effect of the pro forma movements in projected
yield curves based on a static balance sheet size and structure assumption, other than instances where the size of the
balances or repricing is deemed interest rate sensitive (non-interest bearing current account migration and fixed rate loan
early prepayment). in reality, wema bank proactively seeks to change the interest rate risk profile to optimize net
revenues.

the management of interest rate risk in the banking book is supported by the sensitivity analysis of the bank's financial
assets and liabilities to various standards and non-standards interest rate scenarios.

analysis of the bank's sensitivity to an increase or decrease in market interest rates, assuming no asymmetrical movement
in yield curves and a static financial position is shown below:

 sensitivity of projected net interest income

rsl - risk sensitive liabilities
rsa - risk sensitive assets

                                                    rsa constant                         rsa increases       rsa increases
                                        as at                           rsa and rsl
                                                          and rsl                        by 2% and rsl        by 3.5% and
                                    reporting                           increases by
                                                     increases by                          increases by      rsl increases
                                        date
                                                              1%                  1%                1%               by 1%
in thousands of nigerian naira

group
31-dec-16


average for the period               1,537,481          1,251,329           1,457,244          1,663,159           1,972,032
maximum for the period               2,132,396          1,861,291           2,118,181          2,375,070           2,760,405
minimum for the period                878,881             641,918            851,464           1,061,010           1,375,328




bank
31-dec-16
average for the period               1,539,329          1,252,832           1,458,995          1,665,158           1,974,402
maximum for the period               2,134,958          1,863,528           2,120,726          2,377,924           2,763,721
minimum for the period                 879,937            642,690             852,487          1,062,284           1,376,981



                                                   rsa constant                          rsa increases       rsa increases
                                       as at                            rsa and rsl
                                                         and rsl                         by 2% and rsl        by 3.5% and
                                   reporting                            increases by
                                                    increases by                           increases by      rsl increases
                                       date
                                                             1%                   1%                1%               by 1%
in thousands of nigerian naira

bank
31-dec-15
average for the period              1,476,017           1,248,899          1,438,767           1,628,635          1,913,438
maximum for the period              1,967,090           1,738,054          1,923,519           2,108,985          2,387,184
minimum for the period                967,124             710,608            929,704           1,148,767          1,477,445



                                                                                          153 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements



liquidity risk management
liquidity risk is the risk arising from our potential inability to meet all payment obligations when they come due or only
being able to meet these obligations at excessive costs. the objective of the bank's liquidity risk management framework is
to ensure that the group can fulfill its payment obligations at all times and can manage liquidity and funding risks within its
risk appetite. the framework considers relevant and significant drivers of liquidity risk, whether on-balance sheet or off-
balance sheet

liquidity risk management framework

liquidity risk management governance is designed and established to promote oversight of all liquidity risks, effective
decision-making and timely escalation to senior management and board.

the bank has an internal liquidity and funding risk management framework which aims to allow it to withstand very severe
liquidity stresses. it is designed to be adaptable to changing business models, markets and regulations. the management
of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken by the asset and lability management committee (alco) in compliance
with the bank's policy and international best practices.

the board defines the liquidity and funding risk strategy for the bank, as well as the risk appetite, based on
recommendations made by the chief risk officer (cro) through the asset and liability management committee (alco). at
least annually, the board approves the bank's liquidity policy and contingency funding plan, including establishing
liquidity risk tolerance levels which are used by the bank to measure and control liquidity risks as well as our long-term
funding plan.

treasury is mandated to manage the overall liquidity and funding position of the bank, with market risk acting as an
independent control function, responsible for reviewing the liquidity risk framework, proposing the risk appetite through
the chief risk officer (cro) and the validation of liquidity risk models which are used to measure and manage the bank's
liquidity risk profile. treasury works closely in conjunction with market risk, and the business facing units, to analyze and
understand the underlying liquidity characteristics of the business portfolios. these parties are engaged in regular and
frequent dialogue to understand changes in the bank's position arising from business activities and market circumstances.
dedicated business targets are allocated to ensure the bank meets its overall liquidity and funding appetite.

the relevant management committees and board is informed of performance against the risk appetite metrics via periodic
liquidity scorecard. as part of the annual strategic planning process, we project the development of the key liquidity and
funding metrics based on the underlying business plans to ensure that the plan is in compliance with our risk appetite.



the bank has developed a liquidity management framework based on a statistical model underpinned by conservative
assumptions with regard to cash inflows and the liquidity of liabilities. liquidity positions are measured by calculating the
bank's net liquidity gap and by comparing selected ratios with targets as specified in the liquidity risk management manual.
in addition, liquidity stress tests assuming extreme withdrawal scenarios are performed. these stress tests specify where
additional liquidity requirements need to be met by holdings of liquid assets.

contingency funding plan

a contingency funding is simply a reserve fund set aside to handle unexpected cash outflows that are outside the range of
the usual operating budget. it is imperative for a bank to maintain an adequate level of liquid assets as a protection against
any possible loss in the event of emergency liquidity situations. financial resources may run dry quickly in adverse
scenarios, forcing the bank to look elsewhere for funding.

a contingency funding plan (cfp) addresses the institution's strategy for handling a liquidity crisis. the cfp should serve as
a blueprint for meeting its funding needs in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. it describes policies and procedures
for managing or making up cash flow shortfalls in stress situations. having a contingency funding plan can help an entity to
avoid the need to rely on other entities.

the bank monitors its liquidity position and funding strategies on an ongoing basis, while recognizing that unexpected
and/or unplanned events which could be company specific or systemic could cause either a short or long-term liquidity
crisis. it reviews its contingency funding plan in the light of evolving market conditions and stress test results.




154 2016 annual report

                                                                        notes to the financial statements

exposure to liquidity risk

the key measure used by the bank for managing liquidity risk is the ratio of net liquid assets to deposits from customers.
this measurement complies with the regulatory requirement guideline of the central bank of nigeria.

the details of the reported bank ratio of net liquid assets to deposits from customers at the reporting date and during the
reporting period were as follows:

                                                              group                 bank                             bank

                                                           31-dec-16            31-dec-16                       31-dec-15

at the end of the year                                        30.30%               30.30%                          33.57%
average for the period                                        30.22%               30.22%                          31.17%
maximum for the period                                        30.85%               30.85%                          35.31%
minimum for the period                                        28.74%               28.74%                          30.02%


the table below shows the undiscounted cash flows on the bank's financial liabilities and on the basis of their earliest
possible contractual maturity. the gross nominal inflow / (outflow) disclosed in the table is the contractual,
undiscounted cash flow on the financial liability or commitment.




                                                                                         155 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


notes to the financial statements

residual contractual maturities of financial assets and liabilities

group
                                                     carrying          gross nominal        less than                                                             more than

31 december 2016                          note        amount          inflow /(outflow)     3 months        3 - 6 months       6 - 12 months       5 years         5 years

in thousands of nigerian naira




non-derivative assets:

cash and cash equivalents                  15          27,623,945             27,623,945      27,623,945

pledged assets                             16          16,419,725             15,819,523         134,832        6,377,071                                            9,907,822

non-pledged trading assets                                238,036                250,000                          238,036

loans and advances to customers            18         227,008,550            227,309,006      70,564,587       14,761,192          54,055,877       71,037,038      16,589,856

investment securities                      17          61,837,870             61,705,882      12,649,548       10,473,911          14,085,667          320,031      24,308,714

                                                      333,128,126            332,708,356     110,972,912       31,850,210          68,141,544       71,357,069      50,806,392

non-derivative liabilities

deposits from banks                        26          37,433,906             37,261,092      37,433,906

deposits from customers                    27         283,302,604            283,302,604     171,097,380       16,399,786          11,000,288       56,891,400      27,913,750

other borrowed funds                       30          32,093,404             31,923,564       7,039,407                   -                   -              -     25,053,997

interest bearing financial liability       29                  932                   932             932

                                                      352,830,846            352,488,192     215,571,625       16,399,786          11,000,288       56,891,400      52,967,747

gap (asset - liabilities)                             (19,702,720)           (19,779,836)   (104,360,677)      15,212,388          57,141,256       14,465,669      (2,161,355)

cumulative liquidity gap                                                                    (104,360,677)     (89,148,289)        (32,007,033)     (17,541,364)    (19,702,720)



156 2016 annual report

                                                                                                                            notes to the financial statements


bank


                                                     carrying        gross nominal       less than                                                             more than

31 december 2016                              note   amount         inflow /(outflow)    3 months        3 - 6 months       6 - 12 months        5 years        5 years

       in thousands of nigerian naira




       non-derivative assets:

       cash and cash equivalents               15     27,608,708            27,608,708     27,608,708

       pledged assets                          16     16,419,725            15,819,523     134,832.00      6,377,071.02                     -              -    9,907,821.85

       non-pledged trading assets                        238,036              250,000                       238,035.66

       loans and advances to customers         18    227,008,550          227,309,006      70,564,587       14,761,192          54,055,877       71,037,038      16,589,856

       investment securities                   17     59,030,562            58,884,384     12,075,285        9,998,418          13,446,207          305,502      23,205,150

                                                     330,305,581          329,871,621     110,383,412       31,374,717          67,502,084       71,342,540      49,702,828

       non-derivative liabilities

       deposits from banks                     26     37,433,906            37,261,092     37,433,906

       deposits from customers                 27    283,328,215          283,328,215     171,097,380       16,399,786          11,000,288       56,891,400      27,939,361

       other borrowed funds                    30     29,282,289            29,112,449      6,422,814                   -                   -              -     22,859,475

       interest bearing financial liability    29             932                 932             932

                                                     350,045,342          349,702,688     214,955,032       16,399,786          11,000,288       56,891,400      50,798,836

       gap (asset - liabilities)                     (19,739,761)         (19,831,067)   (104,571,620)      14,974,930          56,501,796       14,451,140      (1,096,008)

       cumulative liquidity gap                                                          (104,571,620)     (89,596,690)       (33,094,894)      (18,643,753)    (19,739,761)




                                                                                                                                        157     2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements


                                                          carrying         gross nominal           less than                                                                         more than
                                                                               inflow
 31 december 2015                           note          amount             /(outflow)            3 months            3 - 6 months        6 - 12 months             5 years          5 years

in thousands of nigerian naira



non-derivative assets:

cash and cash equivalents                     15            56,583,610           56,583,610           56,583,610                      -                    -                     -               -

pledged assets                                16            16,455,942           15,927,196            3,952,000                      -           3,344,305                      -      8,630,891

non-pledged trading assets                                   4,688,492            4,877,730              377,730            1,250,000             3,250,000                      -               -

loans and advances to customers               18           185,596,590         188,466,716            42,638,026           12,938,395            17,376,565           100,037,621      15,476,109

investment securities                         17            36,418,779           33,530,493            1,027,800                      -          10,910,580              5,352,423     16,239,691

                                                           299,743,413         299,385,746           104,579,166           14,188,395            34,881,450           105,390,044      40,346,691


non-derivative liabilities

deposits from banks                           26

deposits from customers                       27           284,977,836         284,977,836           170,690,865           16,399,786            11,000,288            56,891,466      29,995,431

other borrowed funds                          30            52,289,916           52,306,840            8,154,803                      -          25,000,000              7,159,037     11,993,000

interest bearing financial liability          29                79,485               80,758                      -             37,728                43,030                     -                -

                                                           337,347,237         337,365,434           178,845,668           16,437,514            36,043,318            64,050,503      41,988,431


gap (asset - liabilities)                                  (37,603,824)        (37,979,688)          (74,266,502)          (2,249,119)          (1,161,868)            41,339,541      (1,641,740)

                                                                                                     (74,266,502)         (76,515,621)         (77,677,489)           (36,337,948)    (37,979,688)
cumulative liquidity gap


the above tables show the undiscounted cash flows on the bank's non-derivative financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their earliest possible contractual maturity




1582016 annual report

                                                                            notes to the financial statements

the bank's expected cash flows on some financial assets and liabilities vary significantly from the contractual cash flows.
for example, demand deposits from customers are expected to maintain a stable or increasing balance. also, retail
mortgage loans have an original contractual maturity of between 20 and 25 years but an average expected maturity of six
years as customers takes advantage of early repayment options.

the gross nominal inflows / (outflows) disclosed in the previous table represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows
relating to non-derivative financial liabilities and assets held for risk management purposes.

as part of the management of its liquidity risk arising from financial liabilities, the bank holds liquid assets comprising cash
and cash equivalents and debt securities for which there is an active and liquid market so that they can be readily sold to
meet liquidity requirements.




operational risk
management
operational risks are those risks arising from the execution of an institution's business functions; a broad concept with key
focus on the risks arising from people, process, systems and external events.
in wema bank we understand that there are inherent risks in all the bank's products, activities, processes and systems;
and that sound operational risk management reflects the effectiveness of the board of directors and senior management
in administering its portfolio of products, activities, processes and systems; creating value for all stakeholders and
entrenching a competitive advantage for the bank.

operational risk management philosophy

the bank's operational risk management philosophy is driven by the eleven (11) operational risk management principles
as defined by basel committee on banking supervision. the adoption of these principles has the advantage of strategically
creating and driving a robust risk management culture in the bank and allows for the achievement of greater
sophistication and consistency in operational risk management.

operational risk management framework

the implementation of a process driven framework ensures that all principal risks in the bank are proactively identified,
assessed, measured, adequately mitigated, monitored and reported to senior management to aid effective decision
making.

the framework clearly documents:

ÿ governance structures, including reporting lines and accountabilities;
ÿ operational risk management tools and how they are used;
ÿ operational risk profile, permissible thresholds or tolerances for inherent and residual risk, and approved risk
    mitigation strategies;
ÿ   approach to establishing and monitoring thresholds or tolerances for inherent and residual risk exposure;
ÿ   management risk reporting;
ÿ   independent review and assessment of operational risk; and
ÿ   revision of policies whenever a material change in the operational risk profile of the bank occurs.

policies and procedures

operational risk management policies and procedures that clearly define the way in which all aspects of operational risk
are managed are documented and communicated. these policies and procedures are aligned with the overall business
strategy and supports the continuous improvement of the risk management function.

wema bank's operational risk management policies and procedures address the process for review and approval of new
products, activities, processes and systems. the review and approval process considers:

ÿ inherent risks in the new product, service, or activity;



                                                                                             159 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

ÿ resulting changes to the bank's operational risk profile and appetite and tolerance, including the risk of existing
    products or activities;
ÿ   the necessary controls, risk management processes, and risk mitigation strategies;
ÿ   the residual risk;
ÿ   changes to relevant risk limits;
ÿ   the procedures and metrics to measure, monitor, and manage the risk of the new product or activity; and
ÿ   availability of the required human resources and technology infrastructure before the introduction of new products.

operational risk exposure

operational risk exposures are managed through a robust and consistent set of management processes that drives risk
identification, assessment, control, reporting and monitoring. this will keep operational risk at considerable levels relative
to the nature of our businesses and the markets in which wema bank plays, our capital and liquidity, and the competitive,
economic and regulatory environment. with the array of controls, operational losses are inevitable. our operational risk
strategy seeks to minimize the impact that operational risk and losses can have on going concern of the organization. the
bank's promotes operational risk management culture that reduces the probability of occurrence of expected events and
cost implication by managing the risk profile and implementing loss prevention techniques to reduce erosion of the
organization's earnings. our strategy also seeks to minimize the impact of unexpected and catastrophic events and related
costs through sound business continuity management that will support the bank's long term growth.

operational risk exposures are further being managed by:

ÿ    implementing global standards into the operational risk management framework to ensure that we abide by global
    best practices in managing operational risks
ÿ    frequently increased monitoring and enhanced preventive/detective controls to manage risks associated with new
    technologies and new/emerging banking terrain;
ÿ     promote a culture that strengthens internal security controls to prevent cyber/technologically related attacks;
ÿ   improved controls and security to protect customers when using digital channels;
ÿ    enhanced third-party risk management capability to enable capability to enable the consistent risk assessment of any
    third-party service.

operational risk losses

the operational risk management department collects and analyze operational risk loss data. the bank recognizes the
value of loss data for conducting predictive and loss distribution analysis which is part of advanced approach under basel ii
/ iii.

as a result of sound operational risk management that is embedded into the bank's business as usual activities, we
experienced a significant decrease in operational risk losses in 2016 as compared to 2015 financial year.

the following are some of the key tools adopted for managing operational risk in wema bank.

ÿ business process mapping: business process mappings identify the key steps in business processes, activities and
    organizational functions. they also identify the key risk points in the overall business process. process maps can reveal
    individual risks, risk interdependencies and areas of control or risk management weakness.
ÿ   scenario analysis: scenario analysis is a process of obtaining expert opinion of business line and risk managers to
    identify potential operational risk events and assess their potential outcome.
ÿ   risk & control self-assessment (rcsa); risk & control self-assessment (rcsa) is the process through which the
    likelihood (probability) of identified risks (inherent and residual) occurring and the impact in the event of occurrence are
    assessed. it enables process owners to develop a risk profile for their respective business/support functions and to
    assess the effectiveness of mitigating controls.
ÿ   key risk indicators (kris): key risk indicators are metrics used to show changes in risk profile and are designed to
    monitor the development of significant risks. key risk indicators are defined for high or medium risk area in each
    business / support unit as part of the bank's approach to assessing operational risk and setting its risk appetite.
    thresholds are also defined for each key risk indicator to serve as proxy for risk appetite for each risk area and business
    / support unit.
ÿ   key performance indicators (kpis): key performance indicators are metrics used to define performance targets for
    business/support unit based on its goals and objectives and to monitor its progress towards achieving these targets.
ÿ   internal loss data collection and analysis: internal operational loss data such as loss arising from fraud, forgeries,
    robbery and system downtime provides meaningful information for assessing a bank's exposure to operational risk
    and the effectiveness of internal controls. analysis of loss events provides insight into the causes of large losses and
    information on whether control failures are isolated or systematic.



160 2016 annual report

                                                                      notes to the financial statements

business continuity management

wema bank provides a governance framework for crisis management and orderly restoration of business activities
upon the occurrence of an adverse event (e.g. a natural disaster or man-made disaster or technological failures).

the bank describes the methods to be used by the business for risk assessment, risk analysis, risk mitigation,
monitoring and reporting while providing for consistent program administration, senior management oversight with
clearly defined roles and responsibilities. sound business continuity management helps to:

i.      ensure business continuity in a cost-effective manner
ii.     provide safety for staff in crisis situations
iii.    provide method for analysing business impacts of adverse events
iv.     comply with statutory and regulatory provisions.

the bank has developed and implemented an information security risk management framework that is in line with
best practice. the framework is reviewed and enhanced regularly to address emerging threats to customers'
information. the bank mitigates business continuity risks by reviewing and testing recovery procedures. the bank
obtained iso certification in information security (iso27001) and service management (iso20000) since 2015.
regular bank wide awareness campaigns are also used to drive information security and business continuity culture
in the bank.




strategic risk
management
an institutions ability to manage strategic risk is crucial to its survival and long term development. strategic risk
management is primarily concerned with how an institution relates itself to the environment it operates in, and the
choices it makes in response to changes in environment and on the deployment of capital and resources in ways that
create competitive advantage for the institution. the principle of sound strategic risk management in wema bank
provides guidance for identification, measurement, control and monitoring of strategic risk. the bank's strategic risk
management is entrenched as an integral part of the enterprise risk management framework.

strategic risk management process in wema bank involves board and senior management oversight over the
formulation of a strategic risk management process which includes:

ÿ sound strategic planning process for formulating the institutions strategic goals and objectives, which is
       consistent with the corporate mission and values and for translating those goals and objectives into a well-
       structured strategic plan for delivery and measurement of desired outcomes
ÿ      personnel, technology, funding and capital resources allocated, and the priority assigned, to the implementation
       strategies are compatible
ÿ      the methods of communicating, implementing and modifying strategies
ÿ      performance evaluation and feedback mechanism

the strategic risk management process in wema bank include the following four key elements:

ÿ      strategic planning
ÿ      alignment and change management
ÿ      implementation and monitoring
ÿ      performance evaluation and feedback

strategic risk monitoring and control

strategic risk monitoring and control is also critical in wema bank which ensures conformity with policies from time
to time. it involves periodic review of the institutions strategic risk profile. the institutions risk profile is reviewed




                                                                                        161 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

based on the following parameters:

ÿ   compatibility of strategic decisions taken in relation to the institution's long-term vision, mission and values.
ÿ   speed and effectiveness with which the bank can respond to changes
ÿ   availability of resources to take care of strategic decisions
ÿ   impact of strategic decision.

strategic risk indicators (sri) are collated regularly to give timely information to senior management and board for better
decision making.




reputational risk
management
reputational risk is the potential that negative publicity regarding the bank's business practices, whether true or not, will
cause a decline in the customer base, costly litigation, or revenue reductions. reputational risk can also result in liquidity
constraints and significant depreciation in the bank's market capitalization. wema bank recognizes that strong
reputational risk management is about maximizing our opportunities within the market and enhancing our competitive
position. it is also about improving the way our customers, our shareholders and our employees perceive us.

since we operate in a financial environment that is of high interest to various stakeholders and vulnerable to regulatory
actions that may adversely impact its reputation, the bank constantly reviews activities, processes, services and staffing
decisions that have the potential to damage its reputation.

damage to the bank's reputation arising from negative publicity may manifest itself in:

ÿ   costly litigation and other remediation costs
ÿ   regulatory sanctions
ÿ   a negative impact on employee morale, recruitment and retention
ÿ   reduction in share price, brand and shareholder value
ÿ   a decline in the customer base
ÿ   a measurable, negative impact on financial performance on a short or long term basis
ÿ   constrained liquidity and higher funding costs

reputational risk monitoring and control

efforts are always concerted to ensure that any event that can lead to reputational issue for the bank are promptly
addressed and prevented in most cases. reputational risk measurement process entails:

ÿ   the actual (current) value of reputational risk indicator (rri) in comparison to the risk limit.
ÿ   the actual (current) value of the overall reputational risk indicator (rri) in comparison to the risk limit.

reputational risk monitoring entails:

ÿ track reputational risk indicators (rris)
ÿ recommend management actions
ÿ report rri and/proposed management actions

reputational risk monitoring program is aimed at ensuring that:

ÿ reputational risk exposures are adequately identified, assessed, measured and managed
ÿ reputational risk is managed in line with the framework
ÿ the reputational risk management framework is adequate and appropriate for managing reputational risks.




162 2016 annual report

                                                                              notes to the financial statements

(f)   capital management

      (i)     regulatory capital

      the bank's lead regulator, the central bank of nigeria sets and monitors capital requirements for the bank. the
      banking operations are directly supervised by the central bank of nigeria.

      the bank, in 2008 took a proactive step of commencing the process of disencumbering the books of doubtful and
      classified assets so as to lay a solid foundation for a more virile and prosperous bank.
      in the aftermath of this our capital management objectives have been to:

      ÿ     stop further erosion of shareholders' wealth;
      ÿ     take all necessary measures to bring the bank's capital to the level set by the regulatory authorities; and
      ÿ     sustain the bank's capability to continue as a going concern.

      the bank has instituted effective mechanisms for the daily monitoring of movement in our capital base and
      measurement of our capital adequacy ratio by deploying techniques stipulated by the central bank of nigeria (cbn)
      banks' supervisory guidelines. throughout the reporting year, the bank complied strictly with the requirement of
      monthly rendition of report on same to the cbn. the auditors are also required to comply with the nigeria deposit
      insurance corporation (ndic) requirement of submitting an annual certificate that consists of the computed capital
      adequacy ratio of the bank.

      to align with the cbn current reforms, we are taking a multiple approach to raising the bank capital base to the
      required level through:

      ÿ     increasing the bank's revenue base while ensuring efficient management of operating expenses.
      ÿ     vigorously implementing debt recovery strategies.

      our bank's regulatory capital as managed by the financial control and treasury units is divided into two tiers.

      tier 1 capital, which includes share capital, share premium, other reserves and retained earnings.
      tier 2 capital, which includes revaluation reserves and other borrowings

      the risk weighted assets are measured by means of a hierarchy of five risk weights classified according to the nature
      of and reflecting an estimate of credit, capital market and other risks associated with each asset and counterparty,
      taking into consideration any eligible collateral guarantee. a similar treatment is accorded to off-balance sheet
      transactions with adjustments in line with the contingent nature of the underlining potential losses.

      (ii) capital adequacy ratio

      the capital adequacy ratio is the quotient of the capital base of the bank and the bank's risk weighted asset base. in
      accordance with central bank of nigeria regulations, a minimum ratio of 10% is to be maintained.




                                                                                               163 2016 annual report

notes to the financial statements

                                                                                     31 december 2016        31 december 2015
    in thousands of nigeria naira                                     note
    tier 1 capital
    ordinary share capital                                              32                    19,287,233             19,287,233
    share premium                                                                             48,870,107             48,870,107
    retained earnings                                                                       (39,127,546)            (36,017,406)
    other reserves                                                                            10,862,876             10,280,134
    treasury shares
    regulatory risk reserve
    shareholders’ fund                                                                        39,892,669             42,420,068
    less:
    fair value reserve on available-for-sale
    securities                                                                                          -               (31,815)
    other intangible assets                                                                    (400,017)               (488,110)
    deferred tax                                                        24                  (22,169,702)            (22,569,702)
    total                                                                                     17,322,950             19,330,441


    tier 2 capital


    the tier 2 capital applied to a maximum of                                                21,027,001             25,773,915
    33.3% of tier 1 capital.


    risk-weighted assets                                                                    189,863,679             170,851,205


    capital ratios
    total regulatory capital expressed as a percentage of                                        11.07%                  15.09%
    total risk-weighted assets



    total tier 1 capital expressed as a percentage of                                              9.12%                 11.31%
    risk-weighted assets


   (iii) capital allocation
   the allocation of capital between specific operations and activities is, to a large extent, driven by optimisation of the
   return achieved on the capital allocated. the amount of capital allocated to each operation or activity is based
   primarily upon the regulatory capital, but in some cases the regulatory requirements do not reflect fully the varying
   degree of risk associated with different activities. in such cases the capital requirements may be flexed to reflect
   differing risk profiles, subject to the overall level of capital to support a particular operation or activity not falling below
   the minimum required for regulatory purposes.

   although maximisation of the return on risk-adjusted capital is the principal basis used in determining how capital is
   allocated within the bank to particular operations or activities, it is not the sole basis used for decision making.
   account also is taken of synergies with other operations and activities, the availability of management and other
   resources and the fit of the activity with the bank's longer term strategic objectives.




164 2016 annual report

                                                                 notes to the financial statements




other notional disclosures
statement of value added

in thousands of nigerian naira                      group                 bank                 bank
                                                     2016    %             2016     %           2015     %


gross income                                   54,361,249            54,246,808           45,791,801
interest paid                                 (25,910,283)          (25,765,627)         (19,408,466)


                                               28,450,966
                                                     ,               28,481,181
                                                                           ,              26,383,335
write back/(impairment) charge on financial
                                                (412,401)              (412,401)              77,640
assets
bought-in materials and services              (12,132,128)          (12,131,123)         (11,374,945)


value added                                    15,906,437    100     15,937,657    100    15,086,030    100


distribution
employees
salaries and benefits                          10,352,321    65%     10,352,321    65%     9,844,548    65%
government
income tax                                        284,565    2%         284,565    2%        318,253    2%
retained in the bank
deferred tax                                      400,000    3%         400,000    3%        400,000    3%
assets replacement (depreciation &
                                                2,308,971    14%      2,308,971    14%     2,250,024    15%
amortisation)
profit transferred to reserve                   2,560,579    16%      2,591,799    16%     2,273,205    15%


                                               15,906,437    100     15,937,657    100    15,086,030    100




                                                                              165 2016 annual report

other notional disclosures
financial summary
in thousands of                 31-dec-2016      31-dec-2016     31-dec-2015     31-dec-2014     31-dec-2013    31-dec-2012
nigerian naira
naira
assets:
cash and cash
equivalents                      27,623,945       27,608,708      56,583,610      52,153,878      31,314,482     19,627,505
non-pledged trading
                                         -                 -                -               -               -              -
assets
pledged assets                   16,419,725       16,419,725      16,455,942      25,775,651      21,830,179     11,485,160
investment
securities                       62,075,906       59,268,598      41,107,271      41,212,524     109,560,057     77,939,680
loans and advances to
customers                       227,008,550      227,008,550     185,596,590     149,293,849      98,631,825     73,745,718
investment
                                    361,798          361,798         393,547         402,145         601,822        664,907
property
property plant and               16,614,465       16,614,465
                                                                  15,967,711      14,042,912      12,468,085     12,433,326
equipment
intangible assets                   400,017          400,017         488,110       1,001,954         913,200        925,429
investment in                                -
                                                                            -               -      2,964,626      2,048,765
associate
assets held for sale                         -              -               -      2,964,626                -              -

other assets                     51,369,473       51,369,473      57,580,831      72,745,071      29,218,497     23,464,395
deferred tax assets              22,169,702       22,169,702      22,569,702      22,969,702      23,369,702     23,369,702

                                424,043,581      421,221,036     396,743,314     382,562,312     330,872,475    245,704,597


finance by:
share capital                    19,287,233       19,287,233      19,287,233      19,287,233      19,287,233      6,410,624
share premium                    48,870,107       48,870,107      48,870,107      48,870,107      48,870,107     24,701,231
retained earnings               (39,158,766)     (39,127,546)    (36,017,406)    (34,793,663)    (35,663,169)   (35,307,930)
treasury shares                              -              -               -               -               -    (4,571,482)
other reserve                    19,472,160       19,472,160      13,924,176      10,404,971       8,900,980     10,045,873
deposits from
                                 37,433,906       37,433,906                -      3,243,218       3,397,370        730,856
banks
deposits from
                                283,302,604      283,328,215     284,977,836     258,956,478     217,734,559    174,302,424
customers
derivative financial                         -              -
                                                                            -        418,612                -              -
liabilities
current tax
                                    349,245          349,245         382,694         338,537         382,047        128,965
liabilities
other liabilities                22,392,756       22,324,495      12,949,273      17,107,217      10,127,394      7,516,963
obligations under
                                        932              932          79,485         347,874         247,966               -
finance lease
other borrowed
                                 32,093,404       29,282,289      52,289,916      58,381,728      57,587,958     57,006,619
funds
deposit for shares                           -              -               -               -               -     4,740,454

                                424,043,581      421,221,036     396,743,314     382,562,312     330,872,475    245,704,597
guarantees and other
                                 37,526,467       37,526,467      19,056,528      21,112,316      14,739,537      7,686,040
commitments

                                        group            bank           bank             bank          bank           bank
                                        31-dec          31-dec         31-dec           31-dec        31-dec         31-dec
                                          2016            2016           2015             2014          2013           2012
gross earnings                      53,948,848      53,834,407     45,869,441       42,186,867    36,981,439     30,716,386

profit/(loss) before taxation        3,245,145       3,276,365      2,991,458        3,093,940     1,947,308     (4,942,211)

income tax                           (684,565)       (684,565)       (718,253)       (721,495)     (350,777)        (98,418)
profit/(loss) after taxation         2,560,580       2,591,800      2,273,205        2,372,445    1,596,531      (5,040,629)



166 2016 annual report

wemacard control




                     with you. all the way.
2016 annual report

shareholders’
     kit

proxy form




annual general meeting to be held at the banquet hall, civic center, ozumba mbadiwe, victoria island lagos, nigeria on may 10, 2017 at
11.00am.

i/we*

being member/members of wema bank plc hereby appoint**

as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the annual general meeting to be held on

                                                                                       and at any adjournment thereof.


          shareholder’s signature & date                                   shareholder’s name




please indicate with an “x” in the appropriate box how you wish your votes to be cast on the resolutions set above. unless otherwise instructed, the
proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his discretion.

      ordinary resolutions                                                                                                                for       against

1.      to lay before the meeting the audited financial statement for the
        year ended december 31, 2016 together with the reports of the
        directors, auditors and audit committee thereon;

2.      to elect/re-elect the following directors
        a. mr adebode adefioye

        b. mrs abolanle matel okoh
        c. mr babatunde kasali

3.      to approve the remuneration of directors



4.      to authorize the directors to fix the remuneration of the auditors.



5.      to elect members of the audit committee.



      admission card

annual general meeting to be held at the banquet hall, civic center, ozumba mbadiwe, victoria island lagos, nigeria on may 10, 2017 at 11.00am .
shareholder’s name (surname & other names)




shareholder’s account no.                                                                            no. of shares

  important


(a)     before posting the proxy form, please tear off this part and retain it. a person attending      signature of person attending
        the annual general meeting of the company of his proxy should produce this card to
        secure admission to the meeting.
(b)     write your name in block letters on the proxy form where marked (*) and the name of
        your proxy where marked (**) and ensure the proxy form is dated and signed.
(c)     write your name in block letters on the proxy form where marked (*), and the name of
        your proxy where marked (**) and ensure the proxy form is dated and signed.
(d)     it is a requirement of the stamp duties act, cap 411, laws of the federation of nigeria,
        1990 that any instrument of proxy to be used for the purpose of voting by any person
        entitled to vote at any meeting of the shareholders must bear a stamp duty.
(e)     the proxy form when completed must be deposited at the office of the registrars, gtl
        registrars limited, 274, murtala muhammed way, yaba, lagos not less than 48 hours
        before the time fixed for the meeting.                                                         date signed.
(f)     if proxy form is executed by a company, it should be sealed under its common seal or
        under the hand and seal of its attorney.
                                                                                                        d   d    /    m   m   /   y   y   y     y



                 2016 annual report

                             please affix
                            postage stamp
                                here




the registrar
gtl registrars limited
274, murtala muhammed way
yaba,lagos.

shareholder’s data update form



please complete in block letters                                                                no 274, murtala mohmmed way, yaba, lagos. tel: +234-(0)1-2917747,
                                                                                                                 +234-(0)1-2793160-2; email: info@gtlregistrars.com
in our quest to update shareholder’s data on our client company register of members, we                                            website: www.gtlregistrars.com
require your mobile phone numbers for individuals and landline for corporate
shareholders, your cscs account number and bank details to enable us effect payment of
subsequent dividend and bonuses videour online e-bonus and e-dividend menus. this
will enhance safe and timely receipt of your entitlements as they fall due.                           date     d    d     /     m    m    /     y    y    y    y

 share holder’s information
surname / company’s name



other names (for individual shareholders)



present postal address




city                                                state                                                            mobile phone number


e-mail address



 e-bonus information

i/ we hereby request that from now on, all my/our bonus shares due to me/us from our holding(s) in all the companies ticked below be transferred to
cscs electronically.
clearing house number (e.g.c123456789ag)                                                                  cscs account number



name of stockbroker



 e-dividend information

i/ we hereby request that from now on, all my/our dividend warrants due to me/us from our holding(s) in all the companies ticked below be
mandated to my/our bank name below.
bank name


branch address




account number                                                                                                 bank sort code



tick the name of company(ies) in which you have shares                                       registrars use only - account number
       abplast products plc                  eterna plc

       impresit bakolori plc                 nigerian wire & cable plc

       university press plc                  wema bank plc

       c/rivers state govt. bond             imperial telecoms ltd.

       propertygate dev. & inv. plc          propertygate dev. & inv. plc

       great nigeria insurance plc           okitipupa oil palm plc
       antonio oil plc                       kotco energy ltd.




                                                                                                                     company seal & incorporation number
            signature or thumbprint                                signature or thumbprint                                    (corporate applicant)

                                                          2 authorized signatories and stamp of bankers

                              please complete and return to gtl registrars or any wema bank branches nearest to you


e-share notifier subscription form


please fill in the form in capital letters and return
to the address above
                                                                                   no 2, burma road, apapa, lagos. tel: +234-(0)1-2917747,
                                                                                          +234-(0)1-2793160-2; email: info@gtlregistrars.com
                                                                                                            website: www.gtlregistrars.com

the managing director/ceo
gtl registrars
no 2, burma road
apapa, lagos.


surname




other names



address




city                                   state                                                 country



postal code



e-mail address



mobile phone number                                                                telephone number



shareholder’s signature (individual)       joint shareholder’s/company signature        company seal

                                               1




                                               2




                                                3




  please tick the name of the company ies in which you have shares

 1.    abplast products plc                6.       eterna plc                        11. great nigeria insurance plc

 2.    impresit bakolori plc               7.       nigerian wire & cable plc         12. okitipupa oil palm plc

 3.    university press plc                8.       wema bank plc                     13. propertygate dev. & inv. plc

 4.    antonio oil plc                     9        c/rivers state govt. bond
 5.    imperial telecoms ltd.              10.      kotco energy ltd.


e-dividend mandate activation form




      aﬃx current
       passport
      photograph




       only clearing banks are acceptable

instruction

please complete all sections of this form to make it eligible for processing and return to the address below                                                shareholders
                                                                                                                       tick company name                    account no.
the registrar
                                                                                                                           abplast products plc
gtl registrars limited
274 murtala mu hammed way,yaba, lagos                                                                                      aluminium extrusion plc

                                                                                                                           cashchew nut processing
i \we hereby request that henceforth, all my \our dividend payment(s) due to me\us from my\our                             industries plc
holdings in all the companies ticked at the right hand column be credited directly to my \ our bank detailed               chellarams plc
below:                                                                                                                     christlieb plc

                                                                                                                           dana group of companies plc
                                                                                                                           series 1 & 2
bank veriﬁcation number                                                                                                    meyer plc

                                                                                                                           dn tyre & rubber plc

                                                                                                                           ecobank transnational
bank name                                                                                                                  incorporated (naira)
                                                                                                                           ecobank transnational
                                                                                                                           incorporated (usd)
bank account number
                                                                                                                           ekiti state bond tranche 1 & 2

                                                                                                                           ekocorp plc
account opening date                                                                                                       eterna plc

                                                                                                                           general telecoms plc

shareholder account information                                                                                            glaxosmithkline nigeria plc

                                                                                                                           global biofuel nigeria limited
surname/company name                   first name                                 other names
                                                                                                                           great nigeria insurance plc

                                                                                                                           ikeja hotels plc

                                                                                                                           impresit bakolori plc
address                                                                                                                    industrial & general insurance
                                                                                                                           plc

                                                                                                                           ipwa plc

                                                                                                                           john holts plc

                                                                                                                           julius berger nigeria plc
                                                                                                                           kajola integrated & investment
city                                       state                                      country                              company plc

                                                                                                                           lennard nigeria plc

                                                                                                                           local contractors receivables
                                                                                                                           bond tranche 1, 2 & 3

previous address (if any)
                                                                                                                           mobil oil nigeria plc

                                                                                                                           nestle nigeria plc

                                                                                                                           nigeria cement company plc
cscs clearing house number
                                                                                                                           nigeria reinsurance

                                                                                                                           nigerian enamelware company
                                                                                                                           plc

mobile number 1                                                      mobile number 2                                       nigerian lamp & industries

                                                                                                                           nigerian wire & cable plc

                                                                                                                           okitipupa oil palm plc

                                                                                                                           oluwa glass company
email address
                                                                                                                           seven-up bottling company plc

                                                                                                                           the tourist company of nigeria
                                                                                                                           plc
                                                                                                                           tripple gee & company plc
shareholder’s signature                                             company seal (if applicable)
                                                                                                                           uba fixed n20 billion bond
                                                                                                                           series 1 bond
                                                                                                                           union bank of nigeria plc

                                                                                                                           ubn property company plc

                                                                                                                           unilever nigeria plc

                                                                                                                           ensure insurance (erstwhile
 nd
2 signatory (joint/company accounts)                                                                                       union assurance company
                                                                    help desk telephone no/contact centre                  limited )
                                                                    information for issue resolution or                    union homes reits
                                                                    clariﬁcation: +234-(0)1- 2917747,                      union homes savings & loans
                                                                                                                           plc
                                                                    +234 - (0)1- 2793160- 2.
                                                                                                                           university press plc

                                                                                                                           wema bank plc




                                                                          gtl registrars limited
                                                         website: gtlregistrars.com . e mail: info@gtlregistrars.com


branch network
     abuja              lagos             south-west            south-south              north        atm plus


      7                 49                   69                    12                     2              2
branches               branches            branches                branches             branches      locations



federal capital territory (fct), abuja

1.      aminu kano              81, aminu kano way, fct abuja                                 fct      012778622

2.      cbd                     464,central business area,abuja.                              fct      012779908

3.      garki                   11, dunukofia street, arear 11, garki abuja                   fct      012779910

4.      lugbe                   house 166 1st avenue fha lugbe, abuja                         fct      012779909

5.      national assembly       nass complex,three arm zone,abuja.                            fct      012779911

6.      ralph sodiende          oyo house,ralph shodeinde str,cbd,abuja.                      fct      012779912

7.      wuse                    36,herbert macaulay way,wuse,abuja.                           fct      012779913




lagos state

8.      abule egba              15, lagos/abeokuta express way, abule egba                    lagos    012779906

9.      adeniji adele           184, adeniji adele road,lagos-island                          lagos    012779868

10.     admiralty               26, obafemi anibaba street off admiralty way. lekki phase 1   lagos    012778956

11.     ado badore              genesis college, ado badore road ajah                         lagos    012779833

12.     agege                   185, old abeokuta motor road, agege                           lagos    012779897

13.     a jah                   km 23, lagos epe express road                                 lagos    012778605

14.     a jao estate            2, rasmon close off osolo way a jao estate                    lagos    012779882

15.     alaba                   3a, ojo, igbede road, alaba int'l market                      lagos    012779876

16.     allen                   33, allen avenue ikeja                                        lagos    012779902

17.     aspamda                 blk 9, zone d aspamda market. int'l trade fair complex        lagos    012779875

18.     awolowo rd.             82, awolowo rd, ikoyi, lagos                                  lagos    012779863

19.     badagry                 joseph dosu road, badagry                                     lagos    012779881

20.     bariga                  60, jagunmolu street, bariga                                  lagos    012779884

21.     broad street            41/45, broad street branch, lagos island                      lagos    012779860

22.     commercial rd           2, commercila road, apapa                                     lagos    012779874

23.     dopemu                  60, lagos/abk express road dopemu                             lagos    012779899

24.     ebute metta             52/54, muritala mohammed way ebute meta                       lagos    012779889

25.     egbeda                  117, idimu road egbeda. orelope bus stop                      lagos    012779900

26.     idowu taylor            8, idowu taylor street, victoria island, lagos                lagos    012779861

27.     ijede                   60, ikorodu road ijede                                        lagos    012779888

28.     ijora                   ijora fishries terminal behinde nepa workshop, ijora, lagos   lagos    012779871

29.     ikeja                   24, oba akran avenue ikeja                                    lagos    012779907

30.     ikorodu                 23/24, shagamu road ikorodu                                   lagos    012779883

31.     iponri                  iponri shopping centre                                        lagos    012779873

32.     isolo                   24, abimbola street isolo                                     lagos    012779895

33.     jibowu                  33, ikorodu road jibowu                                       lagos    012779890

34.     kafi                    omatsola mall, 4, kafi street, behind shoprite, ikeja         lagos    012779931

35.     lagos airport hotel     111, obafemi awolowo road ikeja                               lagos    012779905

36.     lapal                   241, igbosere road, lagos                                     lagos    012779867




                                                                                          177 2016 annual report

37.    lasu               lasu main campus                                            lagos    012779879

38.    lawanson           89, itire rd, lawanson                                      lagos    012779885

39.    lekki              2nd roundabout beside texaco filling station, lekki lagos   lagos    012779866

40.    mamman kontagora   23, broad street, lagos                                     lagos    012779864

41.    marina             54, marina , lagos                                          lagos    012779862

42.    maryland           2, mobola ji bank anthony way, maryland, ikeja, lagos       lagos    012779892

43.    mushin             236, agege motor road                                       lagos    012779887

44.    nahco              ist floor nahco building                                    lagos    012779894

45.    oba akran          plt 30, oba akran avenue, ikeja                             lagos    012779896

46.    ogba               plot 45, omole industrial estate                            lagos    012779898

47.    ojota              odua intl model market, ojota                               lagos    012779893

48.    oke-arin           104, alakoro, oke-arin lagos                                lagos    012779865

49.    okokomaiko         29, badagry express way, okoko                              lagos    012779877

50.    oniru              odyssey place, plot 4, t.f. kuboye road, oniru, lekki       lagos    012779841

51.    opebi              65a, opebi ikeja                                            lagos    012779840

52.    orileiganmu        34, operestreet,offlagos-badagryexpressway,orileiganmubranch lagos   012779872

53.    oshodi             455, agege moto road, oshodi                                lagos    012779886

54.    tinubu             27, nnamdi azikiwe street lagos island                      lagos    012779869

55.    unilag             unilag campus                                               lagos    012779891

56.    warehouse rd       32, warehouse road apapa,lagos                              lagos    012779878



south-west



ogun state

57.    ago iwoye          fibigbade street, ago iwoye                                 ogun     012779955

58.    aiyetoro           ilaro rd, ayetoro                                           ogun     012779952

59.    babcock            babcock university ilisan                                   ogun     012779959

60.    bells              bells university of technology ota                          lagos    012779904

61.    idi iroko          lagos road idiiroko                                         ogun     012779948

62.    ifo                abeokuta motor road ifo,ogun state                          ogun     012779951

63.    ijebu igbo         adeboye road, ijebu igbo                                    ogun     012779954

64.    ijebu ode          no 201, folagbade street ijebu ode                          ogun     012779953

65.    ilaro              leslie street, ilaro                                        ogun     012779943

66.    iperu              kaaf building, old ibadan express way, iperu remo,ogun      ogun     012779950

67.    lafenwa            2, abeokuta lagos road lafenwa road                         ogun     012779946

68.    oke ilewo          ibb boulevard opp cb,okeilewo,abeokuta                      ogun     012779949

69.    oou                oou campus, ago iwoye                                       ogun     012779956

70.    otta               idiroko rd otta opposite slot/mtn building.                 ogun     012779901

71.    owode              fashina square, idiroko road, owode-yewa                    ogun     012779947

72.    panseke            gni building ,panseke abeokuta                              ogun     012779944

73.    sagamu             akarigbo rd, sabo                                           ogun     012779957

74.    wapco              lafarge cement factory, sagamu                              ogun     012779958



ekiti state

75.    abuad              sports complex of afe babalola university, ado ekiti        ekiti    012777851

76.    aiyedun            omuo road aiyedun                                           ekiti    012779963

77.    aramoko            ilao,quarters, aramoko ekiti                                ekiti    012779965

78.    igbara odo         3, inipa st, igbara odo                                     ekiti    012779964

79.    ikere ekiti        oke aodu str beside ikere central mosque                    ekiti    012779967

80.    ikole ekiti        22, omodowa street, behind elekole's palace, ado ekiti      ekiti    012779832




178 2016 annual report

81.    ise ekiti                 palace square, ise ekiti                                                  ekiti   012779962

82.    iyin ekiti                46, oba owolabi road, iyin ekiti, ekiti state                             ekiti   012777859

83.    okesha                    2, adekunle fa juyi road, okesha, ado-ekiti                               ekiti   012777850

84.    omuo ekiti                kota, omuooke rd                                                          ekiti   012779968

85.    orereowu                  2,orereowu street,old garage ado-ekiti                                    ekiti   012779961

86.    unad                      ekiti state university,iworoko road,ado ekiti                             ekiti   012779966



oyo state

87.    agodi gate                opposite agodi police station,agodi gate,ibadan.oyo state                 oyo     012779914

88.    apata ganga               abeokuta road,apata,ibadan. oyo state                                     oyo     012779915

89.    bodija                    oba akinbiyi shopping centre,bodija,ibadan.oyo state                      oyo     012779916

90.    cocoa mall                beside shoprite,cocoa house complex,oba adebimpe rd.dugbe.ibadan. oyo state oyo   012779989

91.    dugbe                     sijuwola house, plot 5, old dugbe layout ,ibadan. oyo state               oyo     012779917

92.    new gbagi                 new gbagi market,new ife road,ibadan. oyo stae                            oyo     012779918

93.    igbeti                    market square,igbeti. oyo state                                           oyo     012779919

94.    igboho                    behinde oyo state general hospitl, oke afin, igboho. oyo state            oyo     012779920

95.    kishi                     igbeti/kishi road,a jegunle,kishi. oyo state                              oyo     012779922

96.    mokola                    mokola roundabout,ibadan. oyo state                                       oyo     012779923

97.    ogbomoso                  ibadan-ilorin road,apake,ogbomosho. oyo state                             oyo     012779924

98.    olubadan                  new ife road, opposite new garage ibadan. oyo state                       oyo     012779925

99.    polytechnic               near south campus,the polytechnic,ibadan. oyo state                       oyo     012779926

100.   sango                     elewure, sango ibadan. oyo state                                          oyo     012779927

101.   igboora                   opposite methodist church, sagaun-un, igboora, oyo state                  oyo     012779928

102.   secretariat               secretariat roundabout,ibadan. oyo state                                  oyo     012779929

103.   ilorin                    171, ibrahim taiwo road, ilorin. kwara state                              kwara   012779921



ondo state

104.   elizade                   elizade university , ilara-mokin, ondo state.                             ondo    012779940

105.   futa                      federal university of technology akure, ondo state                        ondo    012779972

106.   igbara oke                2,obada market square, obada                                              ondo    012779977

107.   iju                       ifofin road,iju                                                           ondo    012779971

108.   ikare                     34, jubilee road, ikare akoko ondo state                                  ondo    012779974

109.   irun akoko                opposite anglican church, ado road, irun akoko.                           ondo    012779830

110.   oba adesida               54a, oba adesida road, akure                                              ondo    012779969

111.   ondo                      4 yaba street ,ondo                                                       ondo    012779975

112.   ore                       1, off ondo road,opp frsc behinde sabo market ore,ondo state. ondo                012779973

113.   owo                       idimisas rd,opposite olowo's palace, owo                                  ondo    012779976

114.   oyemekun                  34 oyemekun rd, akure                                                     ondo    012779970



osun state

115.   ede                       1, owode market ede                                                       osun    012779939

116.   ibokun                    osogbo rd,beside alademure palace,ibokun                                  osun    012779937

117.   igbona                    10b, awolowo way igbona osogbo, osun state                                osun    012779934

118.   ilesa                     ereguru palace square, imo rondabout, ilesha                              osun    012779941

119.   iragbiji                  market square, palace area iragbiji                                       osun    012779932

120.   iwo                       6, station road,iwo                                                       osun    012779936

121.   modakeke                  ondo road modakeke                                                        osun    012779930

122.   oduduwa uni cash center ipetumodu, ile ife, osun state                                              osun    012777852

123.   oau                       oau campus, ile ife                                                       osun    012779942

124.   okuku                     offa-osogbo road beside king palace,okuku                                 osun    012779933




                                                                                                   179 2016 annual report

125.    station road            106, station road osogbo                                                        osun        012779935



south-south



akwa ibom state

126.    eket                    78, eket/oron road , eket                                                       akwa-ibom   012779978

127.    uyo                     plot 179, aka road, uyo                                                         akwa-ibom   012779986



bayelsa state

128.    yenegoa                 mbiama road, opp. inec office                                                   bayelsa     012779985




cross river state

129.    calabar                 39/113, m/mohammed highway(former cross line park)                              calabar     012779979




delta state

130.    asaba                   407, nnebisi road, asaba                                                        delta       012779981

131.    warri                   33, efurun /sapale rd., warri                                                   delta       012779983




edo state

132.    uniben                  uniben campus, by uniben main gate.                                             edo         012779980

133.    akpakpava               12, akpakpava str, benin                                                        edo         012779982

134.    mission road            39, mission road, benin                                                         edo         012779984




river state

135.    olu obasanjo            66, olu obasanjo road, bics mall ph                                             rivers      012779987

136.    trans amadi             plot 32, trans amadi industrial layout ph                                       rivers      012779988

137.    aba road                76, aba road, port harcourt                                                     rivers      012778624




north



kogi state

138.    lokoja                  ibb way lokoja, opposite kogi state radio                                       kogi        012778955




niger state

139.    minna                   35, bosso road minna,niger state                                                niger       012779870



atm plus

140.    abeere cash centre      osun state government secretariat, abeere, osogbo, osun state.                  osun        n/a

141.    iye ekiti cash centre   ilejemeje local government secretariat, isan-oye road, iye ekiti, ekiti state   ekiti       012779830




180 2016 annual report

2016 annual report

