                                 principles in action highlights

                                            2011




putting our principles in action to make a difference to people and the planet through our performance

                                     principles in action: a summary of our efforts




                            wrigley. creating simple
                            pleasures to brighten
                            everyone’s day.


a letter from our president
most people know wrigley for our gum and confections including: orbit®, extra® and 5® sugar-
free chewing gum brands, doublemint® gum and candies such as skittles® and starburst®.

what many people may not know is that wrigley is a part of mars, incorporated—a private,
family-owned company that provides quality pet foods, many of the world’s best-loved chocolates,
nutritious family foods, refreshing tea and coffee, as well as our tasty gum and confections to
millions of consumers around the world.

mars is made up of 70,000 associates who are united by five principles—quality, responsibility,
mutuality, efficiency and freedom. as we run and grow our business, we make decisions based
on the five principles and as a result we’re able to make a difference to people and the planet
through our performance.

simply said—that’s putting our principles in action.

some companies call this “doing the right thing” or “being a responsible corporate citizen,”
but for us, it’s just who we are. in fact, mars was founded with an objective that calls upon the
company to “create a mutuality of benefits for all stakeholders.”

as our business continues to grow, our ability to create shared value for our associates, commu-
nities, consumers and environment grows right along with it. from oral care outreach activities
and associates going green to sustainable packaging innovation and waste management
practices, we’re putting our principles in action around the world and making a difference in
many different ways.

i’m proud to share this collection of stories showcasing who we are and hope that you’ll take
time to read more.

sincerely,




martin radvan
wrigley president



                                                 p.1

                                         principles in action: a summary of our efforts




   performance
   growing our business
   for the greater good




                 5
            principles guide
                                 17k 180 22
                               17,000 associates in               countries offer          wrigley
             our business          48 countries                  wrigley products         factories




as part of a private, family-owned company, we think in terms of generations, not quarterly returns.

guiding our approach are the mars five principles—quality, responsibility, mutuality, efficiency
and freedom. while most businesses consider quality, responsibility and efficiency to be impor-
tant, our commitment to mutuality is what really sets mars and its six business segments apart
from the rest.

mutuality means that we run our business in a way that not only benefits our bottom line but
equally benefits those involved in our success—from the farmers who grow the mint we buy, to
the companies who supply us with our packaging materials and the communities surrounding
our factories. these people rely on our business for their well-being and likewise, we rely on
them. so it’s crucial that we work together towards long-term and shared rewards.



                                                     p.2

                                                  principles in action: a summary of our efforts




headquartered in brussels, belgium,
mars petcare is one of the world’s
leading pet care providers with
brands such as pedigree®,
whiskas® and royal canin®.




headquartered in mount olive, new
jersey, u.s., mars chocolate is one
of the world’s leading chocolate
manufacturers, including m&m’s®,
snickers®, dove®, galaxy®,
mars®/milky way® and twix®               wrigley is synonymous with smiles
among its brands.                        we make some of the most-loved brands in the world including extra®, orbit®
                                         and 5® sugar-free chewing gums, skittles® and starburst® candies and altoids®
                                         and life savers® mints. we proudly offer a portfolio of 40 brands that delight
                                         consumers in more than 180 countries around the world.

headquartered in brussels, belgium,      we’re part of something bigger
mars food is dedicated to providing      in 2008, we became part of mars, incorporated—a private, family-owned company
leading food brands tailored to local
                                         with brands such as snickers®, dove®, m&ms®, uncle ben’s®, pedigree®, banfield
tastes, including uncle bens®,
dolmio®, masterfoods® and                pet hospitals® and alterra® coffee and teas.
seeds of change®.
                                         wrigley operates as a standalone segment alongside the petcare, chocolate,
                                         food, drinks and symbioscience businesses, which together operate 402 sites
                                         around the world and generate $30 billion usd in annual net global sales. with a
                                         reach like this, it’s no wonder that mars’ opportunity to make a positive difference
                                         to the lives of associates, communities and the environment is significant.
with u.s. headquarters in west           throughout these pages, you’ll hear more about how mars is realizing this oppor-
chester, pennsylvania, and u.k.
headquarters in basingstoke,             tunity, through shared initiatives like sustainable in a generation and the mars
mars drinks offers klix®, flavia®,       volunteer program. but there is much more. visit mars.com and take a look at
alterra™ and the bright                  the mars 2011 principles in action summary to learn more about how we’re
tea co™.
                                         collectively making a difference.




                                                  governance
                                                  mars, incorporated is a private, family-owned company with a strong ethical
headquartered in germantown,
                                                  culture. it is governed by a board of directors who are members of the mars
maryland, u.s., mars symbioscience
is our global health and life sciences            family, and who receive independent advice from four external board
segment focused on delivering                     advisors. day-to-day operations are run by the global mars leadership
evidence-based science and offering               team led by the president, paul s. michaels.
cocoavia™, wisdom panel™ and
seramis® brands.




                                                              p.3

                                                               principles in action: a summary of our efforts




delivering quality
our number one priority is to offer safe products made with quality ingredients.
after all, millions of consumers enjoy our brands every day, and we want to be
sure they do so with the utmost confidence.

we apply established standards across all aspects of production, including those
outlined by international food standard (ifs), a third-party audit standard recog-




                                                                                                                           3
nized by the global food safety initiative, and the international organization for
standardization’s (iso) certifications. we employ external auditing from lloyd’s
register quality assurance (lrga) to ensure we’re living up to these standards,
and we achieved compliance for the third consecutive year in 2011.
                                                                                                                consecutive years of lloyd’s
                                                                                                                register quality assurance
                                                                                                                   (lrqa) compliance
         associates champion safety



                                                                                                                          8
         associates are at the core of maintaining and promoting safety. through
         our coaching associates to reinforce excellence in safety (cares) initiative,
         wrigley associates take responsibility for the safety of their fellow associates
         and point out unsafe situations in a sensitive and productive manner. today,
         nearly 90 percent of all factory-based associates participate in cares and
                                                                                                                wrigley factories achieved
         have received training as part of their involvement.
                                                                                                                1 million or greater working
                                                                                                                 hours without a lost time
                                                                                                                       incident in 2011
a commitment to safety
a safe and productive workplace is vital to our success. we strive to keep an



                                                                                                                          6
incident-free workplace and in 2011, eight of our factories achieved 1 million or
greater working hours without a lost time incident. our factories in shanghai
and guangzhou, china achieved a remarkable 6 million hours without a lost
time incident.
                                                                                                                      6 million hours
we assess site performance through our safety environment affairs and                                               without a lost time
security (ses) management system, which is based on recognized international                                     incident in shanghai and
standards such as the occupational health and safety advisory services 18000                                        guangzhou, china
(ohsas) series.




                                                                           p.4

                                                             principles in action: a summary of our efforts




                                                                                                               40
innovating for the future
our brands fuel our business, and we continually evolve our offerings so our
products are enjoyable, accessible and relevant. this means identifying new
formats and flavors, providing a range of price points and identifying new distri-
bution channels so our products are available when and where consumers want                                   wrigley brands
them most.




                                                                                                                   2
in the u.s., for example, we launched the micropack for orbit® and 5®. this
pocket-sized option gives consumers a more portable way to enjoy our products
at an accessible price point (based on msrp).

we’re also exploring where our brands can make a positive contribution. as an                                   billion-dollar
enjoyable and healthful behavior, we have a tremendous opportunity to use                                      global brands—
our oral care brands—extra®, freedent® and orbit®—as catalysts for change,                                    extra® and orbit®
by creating healthy habits and giving people the confidence that comes with a
happy, healthy mouth. we’re currently partnering with leading oral care experts
from around the world to define where we can make the greatest contribution.




         innovation from the start
         this spirit of innovation has been a constant throughout our history. in the
         early days as a company, william wrigley jr. came up with new ways to
         reach consumers, including a mile-long billboard outside atlantic city and
         the largest sign of its time in times square (1917–1924). just over a decade
         later, we introduced the doublemint® twins (1939), which marked the begin-
         ning of one of the most successful and long-lasting advertising campaigns
         ever created.




                                                                         p.5

                                        principles in action: a summary of our efforts




   people
   we are all about giving people
   a reason to smile




$4.6m 480 11,500 47
      to charitable           schools impacted                        volunteer hours       countries with
      organizations           through save the                     dedicated through mars    wrigley oral
         in 2011               children grant                        volunteer program       healthcare
                                                                                              programs




from the simple pleasure that comes from enjoying a handful of candy with a friend to the
confidence that comes with a clean mouth feeling after chewing a stick of sugar-free gum, we’re
all about giving people a reason to smile.

our ability to create a positive impact extends far beyond the enjoyment of our products. we have
a responsibility to make a difference in the lives of people across the full spectrum of our value
chain—from the farmers who grow our ingredients and the dental associations who endorse our
products to the communities surrounding our factories and the associates who work within.



                                                    p.6

                                           principles in action: a summary of our efforts




                                  our people are paramount
                                  our success depends on our 17,000 associates—who live and work in more than
                                  40 countries around the world. regardless of where our associates are based—
                                  a home sales office, open-floor plan workspace or in a factory—we are united by
                                  our commitment to make decisions based on their impact to people, the planet
                                  and our performance. we believe this gives our associates a rewarding career
                                  and something more than “just a job.”

                                  we measure this belief by participating in the external gallup q12 survey annually.
                                  the survey’s 12 core questions assess whether associates feel equipped with the
                                  right level of knowledge, materials and opportunities; whether they feel listened




6,500+
                                  to, encouraged, supported and rewarded; and whether they have opportunities
                                  to learn and grow.



  12 hope schools built across
  8 provinces in china support
        6,500+ children

                                           measuring associate engagement
                                           in 2011, we reached the 80th percentile of companies in the global gallup
                                           database—placing wrigley associates among the most engaged in the
                                           workforce. this accomplishment is testament to the cultural integration
                                           following our acquisition by mars, incorporated, which took place in 2008.




                                  making a difference in the community
                                  through signature programs such as the mars volunteer program and mars
                                  ambassador program our associates are given diverse opportunities to make
                                  a difference in the communities where we live and work.

                                  the mars volunteer program offers associates one paid day a year to volunteer
                                  outside the workplace to further the health and prosperity of the local community.
                                  in 2011, our associates contributed more than 11,500 volunteer hours from mars
                                  volunteer program activities. wrigley associates in israel, russia, greece and the
                                  u.s. provided oral health information to local students, while a team in baddi,
                                  india, provided dental clinics to those in need. in partnership with local dentists,




11,500
                                  associates in guangzhou, china worked with local schools to provide 375 teachers
                                  and students with oral health information and on-site dental health check-ups.



volunteer hours contributed by
wrigley associates through mars
 volunteer program activities




                                                       p.7

                                                         principles in action: a summary of our efforts




the wrigley company foundation
since its founding in 1987, the wm. wrigley jr. company foundation has donated
more than $50 million to charitable organizations around the world. the founda­
tion’s mission is to improve the health of people and our planet through initiatives
focused on oral health, environmental stewardship, and local needs. in 2011, the



                                                                                                          $4.6m
foundation donated a total of $4.6 million, including annual contributions as part
of multiyear grants in support of the foundation for environmental education
(fee) and save the children.

as part of a three-year, $3 million grant to fee, a non-profit organization dedi-                          to charitable
cated to educating young people around the world about the environment, we                                 organizations
are able to support two environmental education programs in 15 countries.                                     in 2011
additional countries will be added to each program over the next two years.

a $3 million grant over two years to save the children will support development
of a new school health program that will reach thousands of students across six
countries. the grant will help provide oral health, nutrition and hygiene care to
more than 273,000 students in 480 schools in china, kenya, the philippines,
vietnam, indonesia and tajikistan.

the foundation also supports local market outreach activities. in china, for
example, the foundation has worked in partnership with the china youth devel­
opment foundation, in partnership with give2asia, to build 12 “hope schools”
since 2009. these schools have benefitted more than 6,500 underprivileged
children across eight provinces in china, with additional schools being planned
each year. our local associates enjoy a close connection with the schools by sup-
porting annual back-to-school celebrations and visiting with the children.




                                                                     p.8

                                                         principles in action: a summary of our efforts




sharing the benefits of chewing.
we’re bringing the science behind the benefits of chewing to life by the way we
market our products, engage with dental professionals and partner with aca-
demic institutions and independent researchers to further advance our
knowledge.




                                                       paving the way for clean and healthy smiles
                                                       oral health is an essential part of general health and well-being. however, tooth
                                                       decay (caries) and gum diseases can affect nearly every human being during his
                                                       or her lifetime. in fact, according to the fdi world dental federation, tooth decay
                                                       is one of the most common non-communicable diseases on the planet. while
                                                       largely preventable, many instances of tooth decay remain unaddressed due to




   20min
                                                       unavailable or insufficient oral care services.

                                                       we recognize this is a severe and complex issue, and for decades we’ve been
                                                       collaborating with experts in the field of oral health to better understand and
                                                       advance the science around the benefits of chewing sugar-free gum. in fact,
   chewing sugar-free gum for                          as early as the 1930s, we began our research through a partnership with
    20 minutes after meals and                         northwestern university in our hometown of chicago, illinois.
  snacks has been proven to help
        protect your teeth                             today, the oral care benefits of sugar-free chewing gum are widely accepted and
                                                       endorsed by leading authorities, such as the fdi world dental federation and




              27
                                                       more than 27 national dental associations. on top of these endorsements, chew-
                                                       ing sugar-free gum is included in the health policy platforms of several national
                                                       governments.

  27 national dental associations                      helping consumers choose
  endorse the oral care benefits of                    it’s important to us that we offer a variety of products—many of which have
      chewing sugar-free gum                           established functional benefits, in addition to some that are best as an occasional
                                                       indulgence.

                                                       to help consumers make informed choices for themselves, we provide clear nutri-
                                                       tional labeling and follow the mars marketing code that sets strict guidelines for
                                                       the way we advertise across all markets. in keeping with this code, we do not buy
                                                       advertising time or space if more than a quarter of the audience is likely to be
                                                       under 12 years of age; nor will we advertise on websites aimed at those under 12.

                                                       on our confectionery brands, such as skittles® and starburst®, we include
                                                       guideline daily amount (gda) labeling. in fact, mars was the first company to
                                                       commit to using gda labels on its confectionery products worldwide.




                                                                     p.9

                                                          principles in action: a summary of our efforts




sharing the benefits of chewing
we’re bringing the science behind the benefits of chewing to life by the
way we market our products, engage with dental professionals and part-
ner with academic institutions and independent researchers to further
advance our knowledge.                                                                             eat drink chew™
                                                                                                   our oral care brands—extra®, freedent® and orbit®—
our wrigley oral healthcare program (wohp), which launched in germany
                                                                                                   have issued a united call to action: eat drink chew™.
in 1989 and now operates in 47 countries, aims to promote oral health                              first launched in australia in 2006 and now active in
among local communities. one way we do this is by partnering with more                             nearly 50 countries, our eat drink chew™ platform,
than 27 national dental associations and numerous health departments.                              and accompanying “food gang” campaign, shows
the wohp is also working to help oral care professionals and patients                              consumers that when brushing isn’t possible, chewing
better understand the role sugar-free gum can play in a regular oral care                          sugar-free gum is a great way to help keep teeth and
routine by equipping practices with educational materials and check-up                             gums clean and healthy after eating or drinking.
reminder cards.

in addition to working with professionals, we’re partnering with others to
expand our knowledge and further understand where our products can
make the greatest contribution. in 2011, we joined the dutch top institute
for food and nutrition (tifn)—in a private-public partnership on oral health
called denta. the joint effort, which includes acta dental research, tno,
philips, cargill and glaxo smith kline (gsk) among its partners, brings
together members of the private sector with dentists, microbiologists and
biochemists to better understand, maintain and promote oral health.

we also work to generate greater political awareness of oral health—
a subject that is often neglected in both national and international public
health circles. we are a founding partner of the eu platform for better
oral health, a joint initiative of the european association of dental public
health (eadph), the association for dental education in europe (adee),
the council of european chief dental officers (cecdo), promoted and
supported by the wohp and gsk consumer healthcare.




                                                                    p.10

                                          principles in action: a summary of our efforts




   planet
   making the right choices today
   for a better tomorrow




           4
    sites send zero waste
                               3k
                              tonnes of plastic
                                                               30% 400
                                                            reduction in the carbon        go green projects
           to landfill      removed from bottle                 impact of mint
                              pack production




we have a responsibility to take care of the world around us and strive to leave it better than how
we found it.

climate change could have serious repercussions to people and the planet, and we all must do
our part to mitigate its impact.

at wrigley, this means as we run our day-to-day business, we do so with an honest commitment
to the planet—by seeking to use fewer resources to run our factories, selecting ingredients and
packaging materials with a lower carbon impact and encouraging a more sustainably-minded
workplace and community.

                                                     p.11

                                   principles in action: a summary of our efforts




                                    2011 results                                     2015 target
                                  % change from 2007 results                        % change from 2007 results

energy (tj)                                       8%                                           25%
ghg (kilotonnes co e)
                  2
                                                  2%                                           25%
water (m )  3
                                                  7%                                           25%
waste to landfill (kilotonnes)                   72%                                      zero waste
                                                                                          to landfill




    8%
                                 our site operations
                                 together with our segment partners across mars, we have set ambitious targets
                                 to make our factories and offices sustainable in a generation. as part of this
                                 program, we’ve committed to eliminating fossil fuel energy use and greenhouse
  total reduction in             gas emissions, minimizing our impact on water quality and availability, and
energy use since 2007            mitigating the impacts of waste by 2040.

                                 with our eye on the future, we have set short-term targets to keep us on track.




 72%
                                 we’re focused on absolute progress—so that as we grow our business, we’re
                                 doing so sustainably.

                                 in 2011, we did just that and made more product with less energy, water and
                                 fewer greenhouse gas emissions. this is a positive step in the right direction, but
   less waste to
 landfill since 2007             we have work to do to ensure we reach our 2015 aims. we are on track to achieve
                                 our 2015 goal of sending zero waste to landfill and since 2007, have reduced the
                                 amount of waste to landfill by 72 percent.




                                              p.12

                                                           principles in action: a summary of our efforts




our packaging
packaging is a high-profile component of a consumer’s experience—it identifies
our brands, provides consumers with important information and above all else,
supports the delivery of a quality product. however, we also need to find solutions
that allow us to deliver our product while lowering the impact of those materials
on the environment.

to help us identify where we can make the biggest impact, we completed a global
                                                                                                                  eliminated more than
packaging audit in 2011. the results revealed that because our packaging is rela-
                                                                                                                 3,000 tonnes of plastic
tively small—our greatest impact isn’t volume, but rather the carbon impact of
                                                                                                                from our bottle portfolio
some packaging formats and materials.                                                                            worldwide, since 2004
with this in mind, we’re taking a more strategic approach to sustainable package
design—focusing our efforts on optimizing our core packaging types and limiting
our use of more carbon-intensive materials such as plastic and aluminum.




                                                                                                                 eliminated 745 tonnes
         using less aluminum                                                                                     of paper by removing
         we’re limiting the amount of aluminum material within our packaging. by                                      paper labels
         replacing the aluminum bellyband—a small loop of material which holds the
         sticks together—with paper for 5® gum in europe, we’ve saved more than 70
         tonnes of aluminum. we’re currently reapplying this approach to our extra®,
         orbit® and freedent® envelope packaging as well, which will eliminate an
         additional 40 tonnes of aluminum from the supply chain.




                                                                                                                100+ tonnes of aluminum
                                                                                                            eliminated from inner-packaging




                                                                      p.13

                                                              principles in action: a summary of our efforts




our products
the greatest source of our footprint comes from the ingredients we use to make
our products. so it’s critical that we are continuously exploring the impact these
ingredients have on the environment and creating products with environmental
considerations in mind.

in 2011, we completed an in-depth carbon analysis of our top five raw ingredients
                                                                                                                    40%
and partnered with suppliers to understand the carbon impact of ingredients
in every category we purchase. with this information, we’re equipped to be able
to develop ingredient-specific strategies for reducing our footprint and initiate
new product designs in pursuit of a reduce climate impact.                                                       raw materials
                                                                                                               account for 40% of
                                                                                                               our total footprint


       improving mint farming and processing
       most wrigley gum contains mint oil, which is derived from raw mint. in fact,
       we use mint in more than 80 percent of our gum formulas including fruit-
       flavored gum. as such a significant buyer, it’s our responsibility to improve
       the environmental aspects of its production and work to sustain a healthy
       industry for the benefit of growers and surrounding communities.

       as a founding member of the mint industry research council (mirc), we
       have worked together to help mint farmers reduce their environmental
       impacts through continued soil conservation, reduced water use, energy
       management and fertilization methods. since 2007, these efforts have
       reduced ghg emissions from the mint we source by 30 percent.




                                                                         p.14

                                        principles in action: a summary of our efforts




      1.6m
                                      our culture
                                      we believe in the power of personal responsibility and are committed to creating
                                      a more sustainably-minded workforce and community.

                                      our go green program encourages associates to bring sustainable practices
 students received educational
                                      to life at the workplace. at nearly 100 sites around the world, our associates are
materials as part of our support of
    keep america beautiful            developing their own go green projects to help lessen the impact our everyday
                                      business operations have on our planet, including swapping paper coffee cups for
                                      reusable mugs and eliminating plastic water bottles from team meetings. we’re



      400
                                      having some fun going green as well—even hosting cafeteria composting compe-
                                      titions, planting factory-side gardens and cleaning up a local river by kayak.



         associate-led
        go green projects
                                              go green teams
                                              in support of our sustainable in a generation commitments, go green
                                              teams are championing the cause by educating associates on site-specific
                                              practices, such as recycling and waste management. in scoresby, australia,
                                              for example, the go green team introduced a one-stop waste management
                                              solution resulting in 70 percent less waste going to landfill. at our global
                                              innovation center in chicago, illinois, u.s., the go green team launched a
                                              composting system in 2011, which diverts an average of 1,900 pounds of
                                              organic material per month from landfill, including compostable cups,
                                              plates and utensils from the cafeteria and even plant and tree clippings
                                              from our indoor winter garden.




                                                   p.15

                                                             principles in action: a summary of our efforts




responsible disposal




                                                                                                                    99
while the vast majority of consumers dispose of their gum properly, not everyone
has the same respect for their communities. we take this issue very seriously and
recognize that the only long-term sustainable solution to dealing with littered
gum—and all forms of litter—is to change behavior.

to help facilitate this change, we partner with governments, environmental                                     our award-winning bin it!
organizations and educators in australia, china, germany, england, ireland, new                               program toured 99 schools
zealand and the u.s. to support in-school education programs that help young




                                                                                                                193k
people develop a respect for their local environment and to drive community
awareness and anti-littering campaigns.

we also have included a responsible disposal logo on all gum packages for
decades. along with others in our industry, we believe that unifying our messag-
ing will make the disposal icon more motivating and effective. working with the                               reached 193,000 students
                                                                                                              in more than 660 through
interna­tional chewing gum association, we have developed a new logo for the
                                                                                                               keep australia beautiful
gum industry, which will begin appearing on packs in some markets in late 2012.




       driving awareness in the u.k.
       in the u.k., we support a host of efforts to help drive sustainable behavior
       change. bin it! is an actor-led educational workshop to get 11–13 year-olds
       thinking about responsible disposal. in 2011, the program toured 99 schools
       and reached more than 12,740 students in the u.k. and ireland.

       we’re also a founding partner of “love where you live”—a joint effort by
       keep britain tidy and the department for environment, food and rural
       affairs—and lead campaigns as part of the chewing gum action group by
       partnering with local authorities to reduce littered gum. the 2012 campaign,
       which launched in march, focuses on a sense of national pride in the u.k.
       during the country’s summer sporting event calendar and encourages the
       public to do their country proud by responsibly disposing of their gum.




                                                                        p.16

                   to learn more about wrigley:

                                           click here

                               www.principlesinaction.wrigley.com
© 2012 wm. wrigley jr. company. all rights reserved. 5, orbit, freedent, extra, doublemint, skittles, starburst, life savers,
        eat drink chew and all affiliated designs are trademarks of the wm. wrigley jr. company or its affiliates.
