    2015
 corporate social
responsibility report

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
editorial principle
y reporting period
 yang ming marine transport corporation (hereinafter referred to as yang ming)
 has published the corporate social responsibility report annually on the company
 website since 2012. this report states our efforts on social responsibility of year
 2014 (2014/01/01 - 2014/12/31). we also provide the datum of the past few years
 for reference. the date of most recent previous report is 2014/11/17 which covers
 the period from 2013/01/01 to 2013/12/31.

y reporting scope
 this report is about the performance of sustainable development, including
 economic, environmental and social topics of yang ming and the affiliated
 companies. moreover, the report contains our response to all stakeholders
 regarding issues of corporate governance, operation management, social
 participation, employment, and environmental protection. in this report, the ﬁnancial
 information used and prepared is certiﬁcated by cpa.

 the content structure of this report was made by consulting the global reporting
 initiative g4 in the appendix of the report for your reference. both english and
 chinese version will be posted on yang ming website.
 http://www.yangming.tw/csr/01csr_005.html

y this report is not verified by a third party.

y contact information
 if there is any question about the report or social responsibility of yang ming marine
 transport corp., please contact us:
 group management department
 yang ming marine transport corp.
 271 ming de 1st road, cidu district, keelung 20646
 tel: 886-2-24559988
 email: gmcc@yangming.com




                                                                                          1

    from the chairman and chief executive ofﬁcer
    dear readers:

    in 2014, yang ming continued the current
    efforts to develop strategic plans and
    overwhelm the difﬁculties and challenges.
    here i would like to deeply appreciate the
    hard work and outstanding contribution
    of all yang ming colleagues, the great
    cooperation of our supply chain partners,
    the positive affirmation and support of
    customers, investors and stakeholders.

    for 2015, by receiving the container vessels which carry in excess of 10,000 teus
    each, we have made "grow greatly, profit steadily" our main developing strategy.
    according to alphaliner's information, the coming large container vessels are
    expected to increase to 60 thousand teus, and as a consequence we can become
    one of the world's top 10 carriers. however, the growth of the fleet is not our
    ultimate goal. the relevant business integration, the operation of vessels, terminals,
    containers, and the internationalization and innovation of human resource are our
    responsibility.

    except the proﬁt goal, as a global citizen yang ming has corporate responsibility to
    society and the world. for information transparency, we received a+ ranking award
    in 11th "information transparency and disclosure ranking system" from twse
    and otc. for it security management, we re-certificated iso27001 in 2014. for
    environmental protection, we have gathered statistics of carbon emission since 2008,
    and keep using state-of-art green & energy-saving equipment and materials to reduce
    fuel consumption and further cut down co2 emission to make our environment clean.
    compared with 2008, our 2014 co2 emission decreased approximately 35%. we
    endeavor to keep unit energy consumption equal to or less than before until the
    adoption of new and economical technology or environmental friendly equipment
    is available. we also fulfill the corporate social responsibility by promoting oceanic




2

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
culture. in this end, we hold various creative activities. besides the "keelung fairy
tale festival" held every april, over 20 exhibitions of "oceanic culture of mobile
museum" were staged in keelung, kaohsiung, taipei city and hualien county in 2014.

nowadays the growth of economic development in mainland china has slowed
down, the qe gradually tapers off in the u.s., european market is being stuck in
limbo and the world economy remains highly uncertain. in such circumstances, yang
ming receives new vessels; hence our ﬂeet can be optimized so as to improve our
operating efﬁciency and performance. with the effort of our colleagues, it is expected
we can attain the proﬁt goal and satisfy shareholders' and community's supports and
expectations.




                                                            chairman & ceo




                                                                                         3

                                        content
    chapter 1 yang ming overview                                                5
            1.1 company profile                                                 6
            1.2 market today                                                    6
            1.3 company strategy                                                8
            1.4 corporate governance                                            8
            1.5 ownership structure                                            10
            1.6 financial performance                                          11
            1.7 risk management                                                11
            1.8 association membership                                         14
    chapter 2 concern about stakeholders                                       17
            2.1 awards                                                         18
            2.2 customer service and satisfaction                              18
            2.3 information security management                                20
            2.4 supplier management                                            20
            2.5 sustainability issues                                          21
    chapter 3 environmental protection                                         24
            3.1 concern the environment, treasure the earth                    25
            3.2 environmental management system                                25
            3.3 energy conservation and carbon reduction committee (eccrc)     25
            3.4 green vessel                                                   27
    chapter 4 concern about employment                                         32
            4.1 employment                                                     33
            4.2 employee development                                           37
            4.3 compensation & benefits                                        41
            4.4 employment relationship                                        42
            4.5 safety and health                                              43
    chapter 5 social responsibility                                            46
            5.1 global transportation for social charity                       47
            5.2 yang ming cultural foundation                                  47
    appendix : global reporting initiative (gri) g4 sustainability reporting
               guidelines                                                      50



4

   2015 corporate social responsibility report




yang ming overview




                                                 5

    chapter 1 yang ming overview
    1.1 company proﬁle
    yang ming marine transport corporation (yang ming) was established on
    december 28, 1972. our headquarters is located in keelung city, taiwan. at the
    end of december 2014, yang ming operated a ﬂeet of 95 container vessels totaling
    5.44 million dwt/443 thousand teus. the paid-in capital amounts to usd 953
    million. our business ranges from ocean freight transportation, warehouse storage,
    terminals, tugboats, barges, inland container yards to ship repairing, chartering and
    sailing/purchasing. the container- and chassis-related business is also a part of our
    diversiﬁed operations.

    we focus on container shipping business with a worldwide service network. in
    line with the motto of providing "punctual, speedy, reliable and economical"
    services to our customers, yang ming accomplishes many breakthroughs through
    concerted efforts. yang ming is now one of the world's leading, seasoned container
    transportation companies. our ﬂeet is relatively young in comparison to many of our
    competitors around the world.

    1.2 market today
    according to the latest report from imf, the global gdp growth rate in 2014 is around
    3.3%, similar to that in 2013. major economies advance at different paces. eurozone
    still suffers from the "low-inflation", whilst the united states may benefit from the
    stimulus brought by the dropping cost of energy. in mainland china the growth speed
    is evidently running slow. and the situation is still uncertain in japan even with the
    backup of massive economic policies. as for the bunker price, it remained high during
    the ﬁrst three quarters but plunged below usd 400 per ton (rotterdam ifo) in the
    ﬁnal quarter of the year.

    in 2014, we are still facing strong headwind in liner business due to the sustained
    imbalance between supply and demand. it is estimated the growth rate of cargo
    moves in 2014 is 5.1% and the effective capacity is 4.7%, according to drewry
    container forecaster. however, the actual supply-demand equilibrium is still out of
    reach since the global supply-demand index provided by drewry reveals the ﬁgure




6

              2015 corporate social responsibility report
is 95.7, well under the balanced 100. it has been proved that restoring the freight
rate is almost unattainable under such condition, making carriers recourse to every
measure aimed for cost reduction, ranging from ordering mega-sized ships during
the downturn of building price to implementing slow-steaming strategy to improve
cost structure. about 58% of the delivered ships in 2014 can carry more than 10,000
teus. and the slow-steaming measure helps to ingest 1.3 million teus, reported by
alphaliner.

box trade supply/demand growth rate forecasting by drewry

                  2012          2013          2014        2015(f)
  demand          3.2%          3.6%          5.1%         5.4%
  supply          4.3%          3.0%          4.7%         7.0%
  gap            -1.1%          0.6%          0.4%         -1.6%
  s/d index       94.8          95.3          95.7          94.2
source: drewry container forecaster 2014 q4




source: alphaliner monthly monitor january 2015




                                                                                      7

    1.3 company strategy
    facing the critical market, yang ming will welcome a major boost in its
    competitiveness with the delivery of the ﬁfteen 14,000 teu containerships in 2015
    and 2016. besides the upgrade of our fleet, there are several supporting policies
    and cost-cutting projects carried out to fully optimize the operation. the primary
    approaches are:

      ■ devising various business strategies in combination with our deployment of
          global feeder network and transshipment hubs to maximize the utilization of
          megaships.
      ■ the scale of ckyhe alliance has been expanded as evergreen joined the
          operation on asia-europe long-haul services. yang ming is determined to forge
          optimized cooperation plans with our partners by rationalizing the routing and
          expanding the coverage of our service.
      ■ while the full recovery of major economies remain uncertain, yang ming will
          keep tracking on the development of emerging markets. combined with our
          innovation of sales plans, we have been promoting business within several
          regional markets, expanding our market share for lifting revenue.
      ■ continuing our in-house cost management projects such as bunker saving
          schemes (slow-steaming, es bow modification, etc.), renewal of service
          contracts for lower port charge and inland transshipment expense, together
          with promoting the turnaround rate of containers for better efficiency.

    sailing through the volatile climate, yang ming holds its core value of "teamwork,
    innovation, honesty and pragmatism"as guideline to strengthen its performance.
    along with upgrading eco-ships and expanding service network, we have always
    been devoted to taking on the challenges and response to public's trust and support
    without reservation.

    1.4 corporate governance
    the board is the top management of yang ming. the company adopts candidates'
    nomination system according to the article of incorporation of yang ming marine
    transport corp. the board is composed of 11 directors, including 3 independent
    directors and one labor director.



8

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
with directors' industry experience and management expertise, to improve oversight
function, strengthen the management mechanism and safeguard the interests of
investors, and to review business effectiveness, discuss important strategies such
as economics, environmental protection, and corporate social responsibility in order
to establish the good governance of the board are the major duties of the board.
the board meeting shall be held seasonally. six meetings were held in 2014 and the
average attendance of the directors was 96.67%. the important resolutions would
immediately be posted on m.o.p.s. (market observation post system) of taiwan
stock exchange for public checking.

yang ming has set up independent directors since 2013. to enhance the
independence and professional function of the board, protect shareholder's interests
and ensure the quality of financial information, the company has set up the audit
committee since the 17th board of directors, which, organized by all independent
directors, is responsible for implementing the term of supervisors of company act,
securities and exchange act and other laws and regulations. in addition, to enhance
the function of managing remuneration, the company has set up the remuneration
committee under the board, which is also organized by independent directors.
the main task of the remuneration committee includes concluding, verifying and
reviewing the remuneration policy, system, standard, structure for board members as
well as managers and other cases handed down by the board.

the company has set the regulations governing procedure for board of directors
meetings of yang ming; the main agenda items, operational procedures, required
content of meeting minutes, public announcements, and other compliance
requirements for board meetings shall be handled in accordance with the regulation.

in order to guide directors and managerial ofﬁcers to act in line with ethical standards,
the company has set "code of conduct for board directors and managers" of yang
ming for determining and keeping the ethical standard to be followed.




                                                                                            9

                           organization chart of yang ming marine transport corp.
                                                                                                             	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	   	  
                	  
                                                                                                                        research	  &	  innovation	  committee	  


                                                                                                                        planning	  dept.	   	  

                                                                                                                        liner	  business	  group	  

                              audit	                                  compensation	                                   global	  logistics	  group	  
                       	   committee	                                 committee	  
                                                                                                                        finance	  group	  

                                          board	  of	  
                                                                                                                        taiwan	  operations	  group	  
       board	  of	                     directors	                                   president	  
     stockholders	                   -­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐-­‐	  
           	                           chairman	                                                                      i.t.	  &	  business	  processing	  group	  

                                                                                                                        marine	  technology	  group	  

                                                                                                                         global	  management	  group	  


                                                                                                                         audit	  dept.	   	  

                                                                                                                          secretarial	  office	   	  


     1.5 ownership structure
     the major shareholders of yang ming are domestic/foreign legal persons and natural
     persons. according to statistics of december 31, 2014, the shareholding ratios of
     government organizations, domestic natural persons, and foreign investments were
     38.41%, 38.19% and 14.01% respectively.

                                                                                                       major shareholders                                   percentage(%)
                                                                                                 ministry of transportation and
                                                                                                                                                               35.51%
                                                                                                 communications
                                                                                                 public service pension fund
                                                                                                                                                               2.86%
                                                                                                 management board
                                                                                                 china chem group                                              2.33%
                                                                                                 gdr-yang ming                                                 1.89%
                                                                                                 mega international
                                                                                                 commercial bank co., ltd. as                                  1.36%
                                                                                                 trustee account
                                                                                                 fu, di-chen                                                   1.27%




10

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
                                           cathay life insurance co.,
                                                                           1.08%
                                           ltd.
                                           ishares msci emerging
                                                                           0.90%
                                           markets etf
                                           dimensional emerging
                                                                           0.87%
                                           markets value fund
                                           vanguard emerging markets
                                           stock index fund, a series of
                                                                           0.86%
                                           vanguard international equity
                                           index funds
                                          (major shareholders - 2014/12/31)

1.6 financial performance
yang ming's total market value in 2014 was about ntd48.13 billion, and its consolidated
operating revenue of 2014 was about ntd134.78 billion.




1.7 risk management
1.7.1 risk management

yang ming's risk management policy is to prevent and control risks efficiently for
regular operation aimed at sustainable business development. the risk management
structure includes each departments and audit department. the audit department sets
up the annual audit plan according to the risk assessment results of the past year and
reports the audit activities to board of directors to make any improvement suggestion.
then the independent directors review the internal audit report and communicate with
management, auditors and cpa to make sure the risk management system has been
implemented effectively.




                                                                                          11

     1.7.2 information disclosure
     to show our respect of the investors, yang ming sets up the webpage of "investor
     relations" in accordance with regulations to keep improving transparency and
     information disclosure.

     yang ming established the "procedures for handling important information" to
     prevent the information leakage and insider trading, and make sure the consistency
     of the information to the general public as well. in 2014, no related issue occurred.

     the prevention of insider trading has been included in annual audit plan by the
     audit department to ensure the operating effectiveness of the systems. the material
     information of company is published pursuant to "taiwan stock exchange corporation
     procedures for veriﬁcation and disclosure of material information of companies with
     listed securities". in 2014, 41 cases of material information were already disclosed.

     yang ming offers education and training to directors, managers and employees
     at least once a year. "investor relations" has been set on website. it provides not
     only financial reports, annual reports and dividends information but also various
     information such as meetings of shareholders and the board and important policy
     information.




     1.7.3 internal control system
     yang ming establishes an internal control system, including internal audit
     implementation rules, in accordance with "regulations governing establishment




12

           2015 corporate social responsibility report
of internal control systems by public companies" set up by financial supervisory
commission.

we classified our operational activities by 9 operating cycles according to the
business and the characteristics of the industry: research and development (r&d)
cycle, business cycle, operation cycle, fixed asset cycle, purchase cycle, labor
and wage cycle, investment cycle, finance cycle, information cycle and 17 control
activities to strengthen corporate governance and risk control system and to promote
sound operations of the company.

the audit department is placed under the board to assist the board of directors and
managers in inspecting and measuring the effectiveness and efﬁciency of operational
activities of each department to ensure the sustained effectiveness of the internal
control system and make timely recommendations for improvements.




1.7.4 legal compliance
to demonstrate our compliance with the rules and regulations with regard to the
environment, health and safety, discrimination, bribery, conflicts of interests and
the protection of investors' and company's assets, yang ming has regulated the
"code of conduct for board directors and managers", the "code of conduct" and
the "code of ethical management" as guidelines for the directors, managers, and all
employees of yang ming group when they are engaged in any business activities.
they are required not only to follow all national and international conventions and
the company's rules, but also observe the trade practices and social ethics in
order to establish the principle of consistent behavior and good company image
of yang ming group. we also provide the whistle-blowing mechanism via e-mail



                                                                                       13

     (conduct@yangming.com) for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful
     behaviors, and the report will be kept strictly conﬁdential and handled circumspectly.

     for all employees' acknowledgement of the rules and regulations to be followed,
     such as the securities and exchange act, the personal information protection act,
     the fair trading act, the relevant departments implement education and training for
     the employees using external resources and internal online education system. by
     the end of 2014, yang ming had never been ﬁned or otherwise punished for violation
     of any law and regulation regarding the restriction of unfair competition, antitrust
     and monopoly. there is no internal contravention to yang ming's "code of ethical
     management" and "code of conduct" either. as for the rt transporting issue in pier
     #120, kaohsiung free trade zone, it is now under appealing.

     1.8 association membership
     yang ming is actively involved in many association activities. our executives have
     been elected chairmen or managing supervisors of national association of chinese
     ship owners, chinese ship owner's association of taipei, association of shipping
     services roc, taipei shipping agencies association, and china maritime institute,
     etc. besides, some employees, thanks to their expertise, are members of professional
     committees in these associations, often showing interests in offering suggestions on
     public affairs that affect the shipping industry and economy.

     as for international organizations, yang ming is a member of world shipping council
     (wsc) and international council of containership operators, the box club. wsc's
     goal is to provide a coordinated voice for the liner shipping industry in its work with
     policymakers and other industry groups. it also partners with governments and
     stakeholders to solve some of the world's most challenging transportation problems.
     the main target at this stage is the sustainable management of the environment.
     through amendments to the law and communication with governments and
     international organizations, wsc seeks to reduce the pollution caused by marine
     transportation on the environment. yang ming is also a member of forums on various
     trades and environmental-related affairs. such forums are helpful for individual
     carrier's own business strategy development.




14

             2015 corporate social responsibility report
                                                 holds a position    participates
                association                           on the        in projects or   membership
                                                 governance body     committees

national association of chinese ship owners             v                                v

chinese ship owner's association of taipei              v                 v              v

association of shipping services roc                    v                                v

taipei shipping agencies association                    v                                v

chinese maritime research institute                     v                                v

chinese national association of industry and
                                                                                         v
commerce, taiwan

chinese international economic cooperation
                                                                                         v
association

sino-arabian cultural & economic association                                             v

the arbitration association of the republic of
                                                                                         v
china

china maritime institute                                v                                v

chinese institute of transportation                                                      v

chinese management association                                                           v

international ocean freight forwarders &
                                                                                         v
logistics association taiwan

taiwan society naval architects and marine
                                                                                         v
engineers

commerce development research institute                 v                                v

turnaround management association taiwan                                                 v

taiwan russia association                                                                v

cr classiﬁcation society                                v                 v              v

chinese professional management
                                                                                         v
association

the association of marine affair established                                             v

institute for chinese economics industry                v                                v

cross-strait ceo summit                                                                  v

intra-asia discussion agreement (iada)                                    v              v

informal rate agreement (ira)                                                            v




                                                                                                  15

     informal south asia agreement (isaa)            v

     informal red sea agreement (irsa)               v

     transpaciﬁc stabilization agreement (tsa)   v   v

     clean cargo working group(ccwg)                 v

     world shipping council (wsc)                    v

     international council of containership
                                                     v
     operators, the box club




16

    2015 corporate social responsibility report




concern about stakeholders




                                                  17

     chapter 2 concern about stakeholders
     2.1 awards
       ■ 2013 "carrier of the year" award from target corporation
       ■ 2014 "work-life balance" award from the ministry of labor
       ■ a+ in the 11th "information transparency and disclosure ranking system"
          award from taiwan stock exchange corporation
       ■ 2014 quest for quality award from logistics management
       ■ win "green purchase" from bureau of environmental protection, keelung city
       ■ asian freight and supply chain awards of 2014 -the best carrier for the asia-
          europe range of regular container routes voted by cargonews asia

     2.2 customer service and satisfaction
     yang ming implements "customer satisfaction survey" project to understand
     customers' needs and expectation periodically. by analyzing the customers'
     satisfaction toward yang ming, we can more clearly understand what aspects of our
     service appeal to different types of customers and adapt our services to meet their
     requirements in order to provide better customer service.

       ■ since 2002, yang ming has collected the satisfaction survey of global
          customers, listened to the voices of customers, been dedicated to providing
          excellent service.
       ■ the survey project is pursued through internet questionnaires, and with
          reference to the survey results, yang ming develops improvement plan or
          business strategy to optimize the service quality.
       ■ customers' response is the important factor for yang ming to improve our
          procedures. we analyze the opinions and comments gathered from the
          questionnaire survey and report the results to the management, and refer
          them to the relevant departments to ensure the customers' feedback are well
          understood and properly handled.

     yang ming designates a professional consulting company to develop the satisfaction
     survey toward global customers every two years. by measuring the satisfaction of
     7 aspect services, we can understand the key factors of the aspect services, and




18

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
then set up the improvement plan or business strategy in accordance with the survey
results to optimize our service quality.

in 2014, we issued 2,982 questionnaires, received 822 responses, with a return
rate of 27.57%. in overall performance, comparing 2014 to 2012, 2014's rating
outperformed 2012's. the average score for overall service of 2014 was 4.12, and
the average score directly rated by the customers was 4.22. in terms of segment,
"customer service" was given the top score of 4.42, and the lowest score, 3.95, fell
on "e-commerce". yang ming will continue improving the related issues resulted from
vessel schedule.




                                                                                       19

     2.3 information security management
     yang ming emphasizes information security. we
     have been accredited with iso27001 since 2008,
     and our iso27001:2013 certification was renewed
     in 2014. there is an elaborate regulation governing
     the execution of programs, data access, the use and
     maintenance of software and equipment, and system
     recovery to smooth our global service. besides, we
     add information cycle to the internal control system in response to our customers´
     concern about information security.

     the audit department checks our information security periodically according to
     the internal audit implementation rules, and reports the audit result for further
     improvements, and then keeps tracing to see if the correction or improvement has
     been made.

     in addition to internal training and information security notice, there is an "information
     security column" edited by i.t. department and published in yang ming's monthly
     "yang ming you & me". through training and relevant announcement, we can raise
     our employees' awareness and keep them on high alert regarding information
     security.

     2.4 supplier management
     to ensure the supplier not only meets yang ming's operation requirement on
     quality, price and credit but also supports the company's social responsibility on
     environmental protection and safety and health, yang ming strictly controls and
     supervises the procurement's quality, price, service and delivery schedule. we
     require the suppliers comply with the code of ethical management of yang ming, and
     the transaction should be done in public and with transparency.

     the main procurements (i.e., vessel, container, chassis, building, etc.) are handled by
     headquarters, and main business units only handle the procurement of general items or
     assist headquarters in procurement.

         a brief description of suppliers management standard:



20

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
  ■ avoid direct/indirect give or take of any unreasonable benefit.
  ■ hold safety and health educational training periodically.
  ■ comply with safety and health working procedure.
  ■ inform safety and health regulations in advance.
  ■ set up qualified contractor list, and take annual evaluation as reference for renewal
      of contract.

to provide better service for our
customers, yang ming has ramped
up the security of our supply chain.
yang ming's keelung, taichung,
kaohsiung branches and the afﬁliates
yes logistic and kao ming container
terminal received aeo (authorized
economic operator) certiﬁcate.

2.5 sustainability issues
2.5.1 identifying stakeholder
the first step to realize social responsibility is to identify the stakeholders, and set
up communication channels to understand their concerns and expectations. yang
ming has classified the sustainability subjects into categories such as economic,
environmental, and social, based on each subject's responsibility, influence,
proximity, dependence, representation, and policy & strategic intent to determine
our stakeholders which include government, customers, investors, employees,
community and suppliers.

2.5.2 identifying material aspect
yang ming listed the sustainability subject and its communication channel with the
above-mentioned stakeholders, and identified the material aspect of yang ming by
"current or potential impacts on the company" and "level of concern to stakeholders"
through discussion meetings, and then ﬁgured out the action plan by analyzing the
internal and external impact on the company. to promote yang ming's corporate
social responsibility and respond to stakeholders, we intend to set up the webpage as
one channel to communicate with our stakeholders.



                                                                                            21

       materiality matrix
       high	  
                                                                                                              ○6    ○1 ○
                                                                                                                       2                       	   1.	  corporate	  governance	  
                                                                                                                                                    2.	  economic	  performance	  
                                                                                                              ○
                                                                                                              11    ○
                                                                                                                    12                         	   3.	  welfare	  
                                                                                                                                                    4.	  employment	  
                                                                                 ○
                                                                                 18            ○
                                                                                               3              ○5 ○6 ○
                                                                                                                    16                         	   5.	  supply	  chain	  management	  
       	   	   level	  of	  concern	  to	  stakeholders	  




                                                                                                                                                    6.	  energy	  saving	  
                                                                                                              ○9 ○
                                                                                                                 13                            	   7.	  innovation	  
                                                                                                                                                    8.	  social	  charity	  
                                                                                                              14 ○
                                                                                                              ○  15                            	   9.	  customer	  satisfaction	  
                                                                                                                                               10.	  participation	  in	  association	   	  
                                                                                 ○
                                                                                 8             ○7             ○4
                                                                                                                                               11.	  information	  disclosure	  
                                                                                                                                               12.	  risk	  management	  
                                                                                               ○
                                                                                               17
                                                                                                                                               13.	  information	  security	  
                                                                                                                              ○
                                                                                                                              10                          management	  
                                                                                                                                               14.	  quality	  management	  
                                                                                                                                               15.	  legal	  compliance	  
                                                                                                                                               16.	  environmental	  protection	  
                                                                                                                                               17.	  training	  and	  education	  
                                                                                                                                               18.	  working	  condition	  
       low	                                                                                                                       high	  
                                                                    current/potential	  impact	  on	  the	  company	  
                                                                current/potential impact on the company
     using a scale of 1 (very unimportant) to 5 (very important) as the level of importance, we determine
     the priority of our response.

                                                                                                    identifying stakeholders

      stakeholders                                                               sustainability subject                                       our response

      government                                                              (1) corporate governance               1.internal control system
                                                                              (10) participation in                  2.prevent insider trading
                                                                                    association                      3.it security examination
                                                                              (11) information disclosure            4.association participation
                                                                              (12) risk management                   5.procedures for handling important information
                                                                              (13) information security
                                                                                    management
                                                                              (15) legal compliance

      customers                                                               (7) innovation                         1.e-commerce
                                                                              (9) customer satisfaction              2.customer satisfaction project
                                                                              (14) quality management                3.energy conservation
                                                                              (16) environmental                     4.customer complaint service
                                                                                    protection                       5.iso 9001/iso 14001 validation
                                                                              (6) energy saving

      investors                                                               (1) corporate governance               1."investor relations" webpage
                                                                              (2) economic performance               2.hold meeting of shareholders every year
                                                                              (11) information disclosure            3.internal audit




22

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
              (12) risk management     4.provide financial reports, annual reports and
              (15) legal compliance      dividends information on website

employees     (3) welfare              1.employee training
              (4) employment           2.carry out health activities to do health promotion
              (17) training and        3.hold hiking activity to increase harmony in
                   education             relationship between employees and their family
              (18) working condition   4.legal compliance and gender equality

community     (6) energy saving        1. promotion of ocean culture activities
              (8) social charity       2. green activities

suppliers     (5) supply chain         1.set up qualiﬁed contractor list
                  management           2.avoid give or take of any unethical beneﬁt
                                       3.evaluate the supplier performance periodically as
                                         the reference of renewing contract




                                                                                              23

     environmental protection




24

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
chapter 3 environmental protection
3.1 concern the environment, treasure the earth
in view of the serious effect of global warming, gradual depletion of oil sources and
prospective carbon tax, the energy saving program is under legislative process in
maritime shipping industry. therefore, how to strike a balance between meeting the
profit target and achieving the energy saving goal successfully has become yang
ming's opportunity, challenge and the basic
environmental responsibility.

nowadays the regulation governing greenhouse
gas has become strict in many countries.
the regulation not only requires the company
to disclose the relevant green house gas
information but also restricts the emission.
meanwhile, the levy of carbon tax or energy tax
in some countries tends to raise the company's
cost. yang ming will keep paying close attention
to environmental laws and regulations in order
to comply as early as possible.

3.2 environmental management system
yang ming implements the company's environmental management system through
promoting the energy-saving measures taken in line with the management and
business strategies, monitoring and measuring the daily operation, auditing, and
tracking the corrective and preventive actions against nonconformity to ensure that
the environmental policy and goal is achieved.

yang ming headquarters, keelung/taichung/kaohsiung branches, and fleet have
been accredited with iso 14001 "environmental management system" since 2004.

3.3 energy conservation and carbon reduction committee
(eccrc)
yang ming joined clean cargo working group (ccwg) in june 2006. ccwg
membership is open to maritime container carriers, freight forwarders, and shipping


                                                                                        25

     customers, dedicated to improving the environmental performance of marine
     container transport. to manage and implement energy consumption, we established
     the energy conservation and carbon reduction committee (eccrc). also, we
     posted epr (environmental performance report, which has been incorporated into
     the social responsibility report since 2015) annually on our website to disclose the
     effort of our ﬂeet and improve the performance of environmental protection.




                      energy	  conservation	  and	  carbon	  reduction	  committee	  

                 	             container	  yard	     container	     	                     social	  
           vessel	  team	     team	                  team	          building	  team	     responsibility	  
                                                                                               team	  




                                          work of committee
                            1. collect information for new technology
                            2. monitor the relevant laws and regulations
                            3. check current available items for the company
                            4. evaluate each item’s benefit
                            5. propose if any energy-saving measures can be made
                            6. help each department conduct energy conservation
                            7. review the performance
                            8. establish a standard operation procedure
                            9. promote measures of energy efficiency and conservation
                               conservation




26

              2015 corporate social responsibility report
3.4 green vessel
co2 emission from marine shipping industry is estimated to be about 8.4 billion tons
every year, which is equivalent to approximately 3% of the world's total co2 emission.
with increase in international trade, marine shipping's carbon emission still grows.
coupled with rising fuel prices in recent years, yang ming must take advantage of
new technologies to reach the goal of carbon reduction.

to reduce carbon dioxide emission, the international maritime organization (imo)
has developed a variety of standards, including the eedi (energy efﬁciency design
index) and seemp (ship energy efﬁciency management plan). two standards are
mandatory requirements and entered into force in january 2013. new ships of 400
gross tonnages and above must reduce carbon emission by 10%; and another 10%
decrease will be requested from 2020 to 2024; after 2024, the reduction target is
30%. new and existing ships have to establish a seemp, which should clearly list the
control measures taken for improving energy efﬁciency.

the imo has developed various standards and steps to gradually reduce emission of
nitrogen oxide (nox) from marine diesel engine.

                                 nox limits (g/kwh)
    tier      built year                                               ship types of yang ming
                           n<130 130 ≦ n<2000 2000 ≦ n

   tier i       2000         17        45*n-0.2      9.8         m-type、e2-type、i-type、h-type

   tier ii      2011        14.4       44*n-0.23     7.7         u3-type、e3-type

   tier iii     2016         3.4        9*n-0.2      1.96        n/a

* n & n: engine's revolution (rpm)

the imo also established a progressively reduction standard of sulphur content of
marine fuel to reduce of the emission of sulfur oxides.
                               the imo sulphur limit and timeline

                outside an eca                                      inside an eca

        4.50% m/m prior to 1 january 2012                   1.50% m/m prior to 1 july 2010

     3.50% m/m on and after 1 january 2012            1.00% m/m on and after 1 july 2010

     0.50% m/m on and after 1 january 2020*         0.10% m/m on and after 1 january 2015

* depending on the outcome of a review, to be concluded by 2018, as to the availability of the
 required fuel oil, this date could be deferred to 1 january 2025.



                                                                                                 27

     3.4.1 performance of yang ming's ﬂeet
     analysis of co2 emissions
     c a r b o n d i oxi de emi ssi on i s the
     quantity of co2 emitted when
     shipping a 20 foot container a
     kilometer (grams per teu-kilometer,
     g/teu*km), calculated on the basis
     of annual fuel consumption. annual
     fuel consumption covers all types of
     fuel consumed on board, including
     diesel and heavy fuel oil consumed
     by main and auxiliary diesel engines.
     imo deﬁnes co2 emissions factor as
     3,110 grams produced by combustion
     of one kilogram of fuel.

     analysis of nox emission
     nox is produced from combustion of
     fuel by the engines. each engine has
     its own nox emission rate (g/kwh),
     which can be used for calculating the
     quantity of nox emission (g/teu*km).

     analysis of sox emission
     sox emission of ﬂeet is the quantity of
     sox emitted when shipping a 20 foot
     container a kilometer (grams per teu-
     kilometer, g/teu*km), calculated on
     the basis of annual fuel consumption.
     annual fuel consumption covers all
     types of fuel consumed on board,
     including diesel and heavy fuel oil
     consumed by main and auxiliary
     diesel engines.



28

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
co2 emission
co 2 emissions was 99.38 (g/teu*km) in 2008, compared to the figure of
64.8 (g/teu*km) in 2014. the co 2 emission was reduced by 35% in our
company.




in addition to continuously using tin-free or silicon-based paints on hull, alpha
cylinder lubrication systems, and high-performance main & generator engines for our
newly built vessels in recent years, yang ming has retroﬁtted the es bow with speed
optimization to achieve fuel efficiency. we would like to illustrate details by "ym
uniformity" as below:

                       8,626 teu full container vessel "ym uniformity"

                                                 ship's maximum speed can be up to 26 knots.
                                                 the latest technology of turbocharger cut out
                                                 device is adopted, which can signiﬁcantly reduce
                                                 fuel consumption.

                                                 speciﬁcations and beneﬁts:
                                                 1. the man b&w me engine series offers
                                                    optimal, economic engine performance with
                                                    an electronically controlled fuel injection
                                                    system.
                                                 2. all engines satisfy imo nox tier ii emission
                                                    standards. the vacuum sewage system
                                                    is adopted to comply with imo's pollution
                                                    prevention regulations.
                                                 3. the operating speed is optimized to reduce
                                                    the ship's fuel consumption.


3.4.2 other performance of yang ming

              item                                        actions

                           • continued effort to bring up energy-saving concept to global
                             employees
         education
 ofﬁce                     • promotion of environmental protection, energy-saving and recycle
         to employee
                             activities
                           • film release: beyond beauty - taiwan from above




                                                                                                    29

                             • going paperless: using e-mail to send information, using e-document
                               system and presenting meeting agendas by projector
                             • encouraging two-sided printing and reusing the copy paper
              paper saving   • placing recycling boxes to collect used paper
                             • the amount of paper used in headquarters and subsidiaries (excluding
                               the increase caused by the increase of business volume) shall not
                               exceed the amount of the previous year.

                             • controlling the temperature setting and fan coil unit of air-conditioning
                               and turning up the temperature setting in the ofﬁce
                             • reducing the unnecessary lighting in the ofﬁce and using energy-
                               saving light bulbs
                             • turning off ofﬁce light in non-working hours
                             • setting printer, copy and fax machines on power-saving modes
              electricity
                             • promoting the activity like setting pc on power saving mode and
              saving
                               turning the computer off at the end of each work day
                             • switching machines off (pc, copy machine, printer, etc) and
                               unplugging appliances and electronic devices when not in use.
                             • the amount of electricity used in headquarters and subsidiaries
                               (excluding the amount increased due to the increase of business
                               volume) shall not exceed the amount of the previous year.

                             • installing water-saving taps and two-stage toilet ﬂush systems,
                               adjusting the water ﬂow, and adopting ro water recycles
                             • urging employee to save water
                             • the amount of water used in headquarters and subsidiaries (excluding
              water saving
                               the amount increased due to the increase of business volume) shall
                               not exceed the amount of the previous year.
                             • installing a sewage processing system in terminals for disposing
                               waste water and sludge oil, and carrying out inspection periodically

                             • banning the use of cfcs and halon as provided for in the "montreal
              refrigerant      protocol＂
                             • using r404a & r134a refrigerants

              green          • encouraging green purchase, and winning "green purchase" from
              purchase         bureau of environmental protection, keelung city in 2014.

                             • instilling the concept of energy-saving, carbon reduction and
                               environmental protection in education and training and technological
                               exchanges during crew's training. providing ﬂeet with the latest
                               environmental regulations and energy-saving technology information
              seafarers'
                             • carrying out seafarers' training courses every six months to enhance
              training
     vessel                    crew's awareness and skills of carbon reduction. ensuring that all
                               seafarers are familiar with the operations of environmental protection
                               and waste reduction, and encouraging garbage classiﬁcation and
                               recycling

                             • delivering all sludge oil to certified institutions ashore and keeping
              sludge oil
                               complete record of the deliveries




30

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
                        • purchasing fuel with sulfur content meeting the marpol annex vi
                          regulations to reduce the emission of sulfur dioxide
         exhaust gas
                        • ensuring that newly built vessels have suitable designs to meet the
                          regulations of co2 and nox emissions

                        • handling sewage with sewage treatment device, which shall be kept
         sewage
                          in functional condition at all times

                        • signing contract with qualified institutions at port to recycle ship's
                          garbage according to the service route's requirements. reducing
                          the risk of ocean pollution by minimizing and classifying garbage.
                          throwing garbage into the sea is prohibited.
         garbage          all ship garbage shall be handled as per following steps:
                          incineration - records shall be maintained for all incinerations.
                          on-shore handling - the ashes and garbage shall be delivered to a
                                                certiﬁed institution ashore and complete records
                                                shall be kept.

the crew and ofﬁce staff must strictly abide by the company's environmental policies.
in 2014, there was no violation of environmental laws and regulations by yang ming.
there was no environmental pollution incident in yang ming's ﬂeet, and therefore no
loss or ﬁne was incurred.




                                                                                                   31

     concern about empolyment




32

                           2015 corporate social responsibility report
chapter 4 concern about employment
4.1 employment
employees are the most valuable assets in the company. in order to retain high-
quality team member, yang ming emphasizes people-oriented approach and provides
a complete education system and a global challenging working environment for
employees to develop their potentials. moreover, yang ming provides generous
salaries and a complete welfare system to take care of employees.

4.1.1 employee structure
at the end of december 2014, there were 5,425 employees in yang ming group,
including 2,389 employed by yang ming marine transport corp. the percentages
of on-shore and off-shore employees were 57% and 43% respectively. employees
of the sales and sales-related department, terminals and abroad accounted for 57%
of the on-shore workforce. the number working in logistics and fleet management
departments accounted for 23%, and those working in supporting and management


                                                                                                   gender	  of	  on-­‐shore	  
                       number	  of	  employees                                                      employees
          1600	                                                                        900	  
                                                       1354	                                                                                         782	  
          1400	                       1265	  1323	                                                          742	        751	        766	  
                       1190	  1252	                                                   800	     711	  
          1200	                                                                        700	  
                                                                                                                                            557	        572	  
          1000	         1154	                                                         600	                     510	        514	  
                                                    1083	  1035	                                   479	  
           800	                    998	   1054	                     on-­‐shore	     500	                                                                      male	  
                                                                                        400	  
           600	                                                       oﬀ-­‐shore	                                                                                female	  
                                                                                        300	  
           400	                                                                        200	  
           200	                                                                        100	  
               0	                                                                        0	  
                        2010	  2011	  2012	  2013	  2014	                                    2010	   2011	   2012	   2013	   2014	  

   	  




                                                                                                                                                                                	  



                                                                                                                                                                                       33

     departments constituted 20%.

     as for the off-shore workforce, the number of crew members in 2014 was 1,035, of
     whom 540 were employed domestically and 495 were hired from abroad.

     yang ming's subsidiaries have 2,820 on-shore employees. 1,451 or 51% of them are
     working in asia, 647 or 23% of them in taiwan.

     even though the headquarters of yang ming is located in taiwan, except for a few
     management positions, most employees are locally hired. yang ming not only hires
     local employees but also provides management positions for local talents. this can
     immerse yang ming in expansion of local market and communicate well with local
     employees.the regional center of america is located in new jersey, and that of
     europe is located in hamburg, germany. both of them hire managers locally. their
     local managers account for 88% and 67% respectively. yang ming line (hong kong)
     ltd. is charged with both hong kong and south of mainland china markets. local
     managers are 58% and 74% respectively.

     4.1.2 employees recruiting
     in the recent three years, yang ming has
     continually held recruiting activities. 48 people
     were recruited in 2012 and 74 people were
     recruited in 2013. in 2014, yang ming hired
     109 employees, and 87 of them were aged
     from 22 to 26.

     meanwhile, we also post our recruiting information to each maritime school or training
     organization. moreover, we cooperate with these schools or organizations to enhance
     the chance of internship, a way to increase the possibility of getting talented people.

     4.1.3 prohibition of child labor employment
     the labor standards act bans employers to hire anyone aged under 15 for labor
     work, and yang ming strictly adheres to the law in this respect. the youngest
     on-shore employees are 22 years old and according to recruiting regulation, all
     applicants for crewmember positions need to be older than 18.




34

               2015 corporate social responsibility report




4.1.4 protection of disabled people's and indigenous people's working right
yang ming has hired 16 disabled people for on-shore jobs, having already exceeded
mandatory 1% of the on-shore employees as provided for in the people with
disabilities rights protection act. it increases their working opportunities and self-
support abilities. hiring indigenous people also fulfills the request of governmental
regulations.

4.1.5 gender equality
our female employees numbered 572, accounting for 42% of total on-shore
workforce. in this respect, yang ming adheres to the act of gender equality in
employment. although traditionally male employees outnumber female employees,
the percentages of both female employees and managers in yang ming have
increased steadily, and were still growing in these three years. in 2014, 22
employees, 2 males and 20 females, applied for parent leave and 74 employees
(43 males and 31 females) applied for new-born allowance. in the three years,
192 employees have applied for new-born allowance. we had 17 parental leave
employees (1 male employee and 16 female employees), who have already come
back to their posts after the parental leave.




                                                                                         35

     regarding off-shore female workforce, now we have 1 master, 6 chief officers, 5
     second ofﬁcers, 17 third ofﬁcers, 7 qualiﬁed chief ofﬁcers and 4 interns. if female off-
     shore employees are unable to serve on ships (such as being pregnant or giving
     birth), they will be transferred to on-shore work.

     sexual harassment in any form is forbidden and will not be tolerated in our workplace.
     in this regard everyone is equal. we provide a discrimination-free working environment.
     any harassing language and behavior toward other staff will be investigated and
     disciplined in accordance with the procedure prescribed in the regulations for sexual
     harassment prevention, appeal and discipline. appropriate discipline will be enforced
     according to the severity of the harassment. in a severest case, the employee will be
     laid off. in 2014, we didn't have any sexual harassment case.

     4.1.6 friendly workplace, high retention rate of employees
     yang ming pays much attention to the work-life balance of employees and
     emphasizes harmonious workplace ambiance. the turnover rate of on-shore workers
     has remained at less than 5% since the year of 2002. this stable and low turnover
     rate has allowed yang ming to maintain normal rejuvenation of human resource each
     year, which brings energy to the company.

                              2009     2010        2011      2012        2013        2014

          employee
                             1.35%     1.69%       1.24%     1.20%      1.31%       3.68%
        turnover rate

        average age of
                             41.35     40.13       39.04     39.31       39.88      39.25
         employment
     note：exclude retired staff

     4.1.7 performance management and development
     the performance of on-shore worker is managed via pms (performance
     management system), a standardized system. all employees and supervisors are
     requested to periodically evaluate their performance and make development plans.

     through annual target setup, periodic evaluation and progress tracking, it can help
     employees grasp the consequence and achievement degree. with respect to working
     attitude and capability appraisal, it strengthens working attitude and capability build-
     up. the supervisors would have performance interview with employees to counsel



36

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
and intensify mutual communication. via periodic evaluation, we invite employees to
speak out their career development ideas before executing our career development
plans and relative training programs. at last we give reward to outstanding
employees according to their work performance and appraisal result to improve their
accountability and capability

the performance of off-shore worker is evaluated by the form of crew assessment
which is submitted by the chief officer and second engineer to chief engineer and
master for approval. according to annual performance evaluation results, outstanding
crew members are promoted.

4.2 employee development
4.2.1 training plan and development
to coordinate with requirements of group development, our human resource
education policy includes internationally talented employees, all-purpose managers,
employees with multiple abilities and skills as well as group learning.

in 2014, training hours for on-shore employees reached 9,859 hours in total and
averaged at 7.28 hours per person. there were 73 training courses for seafarers of
803 person-times. total training hours reached 82,341 hours and averaged at 102.54
hours per person.




4.2.2 on-shore employees training
orientation for new comers
new-hired employees of yang ming have to take orientation training aimed at
familiarizing them with yang ming's management concept, mission and vision.



                                                                                       37

     through the orientation training, newly hired employees can also obtain the basic
     knowledge of shipping industry as well as culture and ethics of yang ming.

               orientation for new comers              visiting container yard




     competency training & internal trainers training
     by giving a series of advanced courses on shipping management via internal tutors,
     we are not only accumulating our training database of shipping core knowledge, but
     also cultivating yang ming's internal trainers.

     management talent training
     in addition to some prescribed training courses such as hr system and basic
     managing skills designed for all middle-level managers, by applying various
     evaluation tools through "assessment center" system, we can identify each
     individual's strengths and weaknesses. we further recommend external training
     courses in accordance with each middle-level manager's circumstances to strengthen
     their managing skills and achieve the purpose of talent training.

     to develop the work capabilities of our staff, we hold "yang ming lecture" from
     time to time by inviting outstanding people and successful entrepreneurs to share
     their managing concepts as well as remarkable achievements with yang ming's top
     management. this activity has created more opportunities for our top managements
     to exchange managing thoughts and to learn from diverse industries. there were two
     "yang ming lecture" activities in 2014.




38

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
hr training for middle-level managers       "yang ming lecture" for top management




international talented employees
via overseas job rotation, expatriates can not only understand agents' business
operations but also realize the cross-culture differences from overseas working
experiences. furthermore, by managing multinational employees, expatriates can
broaden their visions of international managements. in years 2011-2014, expatriates
accounted for around 10% of on-shore workforce. yang ming provides specific
assistances for expatriates, such as physical examination arrangement, working visa
application, intern program between hq departments, attractive compensation and
beneﬁt. all these institutionalized approaches are intended to ensure that nothing would
distract the employees from their work.

through "international interchange program", we invite colleagues of subsidiaries to
have intern courses in yang ming headquarters. we expect colleagues of subsidiaries
to realize yang ming group's business execution and management culture by this
program, and then implement group's policy as well as developing local business
after they are back in subsidiaries. ten persons joined this program in 2014.




                                                                                           39

     after-work school education
     we provide multiple after-work school education and subsidy to encourage
     colleagues to improve professional knowledge and self-development capabilities.
     fifteen persons applied under this program in 2014.

     professional competency training
     in order to improve employees' professional capabilities, different kinds of technical
     and professional training are provided through departmental training. we further
     strengthen the importance of job rotation. in addition to job rotation within department,
     employees can apply for the vacant position subject to job vacancy announcement.
     the categories and numbers of job rotation in last four years are as follows:




     common competency training
     we provide many training courses regarding common competency as well as relevant
     trainings of legal requirement for employees. we also emphasize the importance of
     "ethical corporate management". to further implement ethical corporate management
     and create an environment for sustainable enterprise development, we held related
     courses from year 2012 to reiterate the importance of ethical corporate management
     as our corporate culture.

     total quality management
     to enhance the awareness and the concepts of total quality management, we provide
     relevant courses to improve employees' innovative thoughts and skills.

     multiple development and learning approaches 
       ■ we subsidize professional training, language training, after-work school
           education and the 2nd foreign language study.



40

                   2015 corporate social responsibility report
  ■ we set up courses on e-learning platform to enlarge learning group and scope.
  ■ we set up an online reading party. we build up an up-to-down independent
         learning environment via top management's books recommendation.
  ■ via survey and questionnaire on training needs, we can catch on the training
         circumstances of our overseas subsidiaries. in keeping with yang ming's
         character as a transnational enterprise, we assist subsidiaries with resource
         sharing and mutual support to strengthen global-wide employees' learning
         effect.

quality of training
we apply taiwan training quality system (ttqs) standard to our company's training
programs. to ensure effective learning, we design questionnaire and conduct all
learners' after-course survey, which include course content, teaching methods,
material preparation, learning effect, course arrangement improvement, pre-course
questionnaire, after-course questionnaire, examination, report and on-line discussion
on e-learning platform.

off-shore employees training
by holding a series of training courses we have not only enhanced the knowledge
and skills of our crew members, but also upgraded their abilities to fulfill onboard
duties. all training courses continuously provided ashore and onboard can ensure our
crew members to work efﬁciently and further improve the performance of yang ming
fleet.

4.3 compensation & beneﬁts
yang ming believes that employees are the most valuable assets in the company. in
order to stimulate employees to develop their potentials and demonstrate high quality
of work, yang ming not only offers comprehensive compensations and adopts a
competitive bonus policy in compliance with the law and collective agreement to meet
crew members' requests, but also has a complete welfare system in place to care for
our employees. we provide various bonus structure in accordance with different job
description to attract talent and combine corporate target with personal performance
closely through rewards. moreover, yang ming establishes employee stock
ownership trust (esot) with a ﬁxed allowance to encourage employee participation




                                                                                         41

     and reinforce coherence. compensation, beneﬁt, welfare and bonus do not vary due
     to gender, religion, race and political party differences.

          welfare                                            description

                           2 days off a week, and annual paid leave in line with the provisions of labor
      leave
                           standards law, in addition to 5 days with paid leave for sick and personal affairs

                           based on "labor standards law" and "labor pension act", yang ming has set
                           up employee retirement pension. the company sets aside a monthly pension to
      pension
                           the designated account to protect employees' pension charges and payments
                           as an encouragement for an employees' long-term job involvement.

      insurance            labor, national health and business trip safety insurance.

      health care &        integrated health examination, health seminars and distribution of health
      promotion            education to employees of recent epidemics.

      learning and         provide training courses through multiple approaches to employees at each
      development          level.

                           multiple subsidies such as birthday, wedding, retirement, child birth, relief
      beneﬁts              payments to hospitalized employees, and scholarships and education grants to
                           employees' children.

                           currently there are over 30 leagues, such as ping-pong, badminton, golf, tennis,
      leagues activity     basketball, swimming, bowling, ﬂower arrangement, photography, mountain
                           climbing, aerobic dancing, yoga, and board games.


                             compensation ratio                                            index

                          the highest compensation :
                                                                                           5.69 : 1
                            median compensation

                  the range of the highest compensation raise :                         no adjustment
                    the range of median compensation raise                               in year 2014


     4.4 employment relationship
     4.4.1 open communication channels
     as a transnational shipping company, yang ming believes an unobstructed flow
     of prompt and correct information to our employees is necessary. we also regard
     assisting our employees all over the globe in solving problems on their jobs as our
     important responsibility. in order to foster unobstructed two-way communication, we
     conduct opinion surveys and employee satisfaction surveys regularly to listen and
     respond to employees' opinions for enhancing management efﬁciency.




42

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
4.4.2 employee reward
yang ming sustains a deﬁnite, fair and transparent reward and penalty policy. every
outstanding employee will gain appropriate promotion and bonus under the promotion
and performance evaluation system. the employees who perform excellently and
make exceptional contributions to the company are recommended as model marine
staff, national excellent labor representatives and model seafarers every year.

4.4.3 freedom of association
the union of yang ming has existed for more than 20 years. employees can join
or quit at will. in order to strike a balance between work and life and enhance co-
workers' relationship, we encourage our co-workers to form different kinds of leagues
with adequate subsidy. currently we have over 30 leagues.




4.5 safety and health
4.5.1 safety and health committee
yang ming sets up the safety and health committee in accordance with the
regulations, chaired by the executive ofﬁcer of global management group, who also
holds the post of ohsas18001 management representative and yang ming group
general supervisor of the labor safety and health. three labor representatives
(more than regulation requirement) join the labor safety and health council meeting
every three months. occupational safety and health management organizations are



                                                                                        43

     established in headquarters and all other work places with required full-time labor
     safety and health administrator.

     as yang ming operates container yards and marine transportation, there are high
     risks in working aboard ships including handling containers on deck, and running
     the machines and equipment under high temperature in the engine room, as well as
     working in container yard. all work processes must strictly comply with the maritime
     and local safety rules and health regulations.

     in 2014, the disabling frequency rate (fr, the average disabling cases/per million
     hours) of yang ming (including native crew) was 1.67 and the disabling severity rate
     (sr, the average loss working days/per million hours) was 40.79, which stayed ahead
     of figures of storage and transportation businesses in taiwan (fr2.15, sr105) in
     2014.

     4.5.2 safety and health management of supplier
     yang ming requires the suppliers to comply with the government regulations on
     environmental protection, safety and health. all concerns, including the legal
     obligations, acquisition of the business license, workplace hazards identification,
     accident prevention, emergency response, limitation of subcontractor, and the
     company's environmental and safety and health regulations are written in the
     contracts in order to clearly deﬁne the responsibilities. the contractors accept regular
     inspections and audits, daily, monthly or quarterly based on audit plan and accept
     irregular inspection under certain circumstances such as preconstruction and before
     working on board. coordinating meetings are held in preconstruction stages to inform
     workers of safety and health regulations and the contractor evaluations are also carried
     out regularly.

     4.5.3 health management and promotion
     yang ming offers regular high-quality health examinations for all employees with
     higher frequency than stipulated in the regulations. we set up aed (automated
     external deﬁbrillator) in all work places for ﬁrst aid. we hire physicians and nurses
     to give health consultations, make health managements, conduct health risk
     assessments and do health promotions. we regularly invite experts to give health
     lectures on subjects such as: "body puriﬁcation and healthy and sustainable lifestyle",



44

             2015 corporate social responsibility report
"vision care", "know more about calorie", "tobacco hazard prevention", "3 high
(hypertension, high blood cholesterol, high blood sugar) prevention", and "stress and
emotional management". we also carry out health activities such as healthy weight
loss, physical fitness test, stretch gymnastics, hiking, and smoke-quitting. besides,
we share health knowledge and ways of health self-management via email and
internal website for all staff.




                                                                                        45

     social responsibility




46

            2015 corporate social responsibility report
chapter 5 social responsibility
as taiwan is surrounded by sea, marine transport has always been a lifeline of
taiwan's economy. yang ming, since founded in 1972, has served as a transport
media between taiwan and the world, and witnessed the take-off and growth of
taiwan's economy all the way. with continuously expanding our business and the
growth of taiwan's economy, we start to think how we can make use of our own
resources to create greater value for the society.

5.1 global transportation for social charity
yang ming is dedicated to global transportation for social charity. to show our concern
about human care and our determination to make contributions to society, we deliver
our care to all around the world.

  ■ 2014.01 yang ming offers "interchange association japan" free transportation
      of a 20-foot container.
  ■ 2014.10-12 yang ming provides buddha's light international association r.o.c
      with free transportation of two 40-foot containers and one 40-foot open top
      container from kaohsiung to port kelang/los angeles.

5.2 yang ming cultural foundation
yang ming combines the maritime profession and the concept of the humanistic
spirit to promote marine cultural undertakings. in order to promote oceanic culture by
helping the public to understand oceanic culture and also to fulﬁll the corporate social
responsibility, yang ming holds various creative exhibitions and activities.

in the beginning, yang ming renovated a heritage building erected on may 4th, 1915,
located by the keelung railway station, into a vintage yet modern landmark to serve
as the site of "ym oceanic culture & art museum", which was opened on december
28th, 2004. on may 13th, 2005, "yang ming cultural foundation" was established
for the purpose of further promoting oceanic culture education through culture, art,
education, exhibitions, and events.

furthermore, yang ming cooperated with marine bureau of kaohsiung city
government to found "ym museum of marine exploration" at cijin ﬁshing port, which




                                                                                           47

     was opened on december 28th, 2007. yang ming hopes to provide the public with a
     deeper understanding of the oceanic culture, and make the public to "get close to the
     ocean, enjoy the ocean, protect the ocean, develop the ocean and make use of the
     ocean".

     e v e r y a p r i l , ya n g m i n g c u l t u r a l
     foundation and keelung city
     government hold the "keelung fairy tale
     festival" jointly. the fluttering salmon
     flags hanging on posts around keelung
     harbor symbolize the call for oceanic
     protection and imply "children's day
     is coming". all the salmon flags were
     painted by pupils from the 44 elementary
     schools of keelung city. we wish these
     creative flags would promote marine art
     education and also remind people of
     environmental protection.

     "marine environment creative show" is an important part of "keelung fairy tale festiva".
     it is a drama competition, and it encourages students, teachers and parents to exert
     their imagination and creativities. the "marine environment creative show"attracted
     11 schools from taipei city, new taipei city and keelung city to join and show their
     creativities on marine environmental protection.

     besides holding "keelung fairy tale festival" in april every year, yang ming keeps
     carrying out "oceanic culture of mobile museum", which exhibits, among others, the
     "winning entries of yang ming 4th international adolescents painting competition",
     "giants hold up the light – special exhibition of lighthouses in taiwan" and "winning
     entries from harbor impression and fishing village culture photograph competition".
     this activity has brought education on oceanic culture to schools and communities. in
     2014, there were over 20 exhibitions held in keelung, kaohsiung, taipei and hualien.




48

            2015 corporate social responsibility report




yang ming promotes oceanic culture in the spirit of "re-discover oceanic culture, re-
create oceanic art" through the power of yang ming cultural foundation. we know
that it needs continuously putting in long time and massive resources to succeed.
we do hope "ym oceanic culture & art museum" and "ym museum of marine
exploration" will become a public place and opportunity to show oceanic humanism
and oceanic art style and partake the concepts of freedom, mind-opening, adventure
and beauty of oceanic art in our lives.




                                                                                        49

     appendix － global reporting initiative (gri) g4 sustainability reporting
     guidelines
                                                                                                    disclosure ● non-disclosure ○

                                                          general standard disclosures

      indicator                        description                          status           related section         notation

                                                              strategy and analysis

                  provide a statement from the most senior decision-                  from the chairman and chief
       g4-1                                                                  ●
                  maker of the organization.                                          executive ofﬁcer

                                                                                      1.2 market today
                  provide a description of key impacts, risks, and
       g4-2                                                                  ●        1.3 company strategy
                  opportunities.


                                                              organizational proﬁle

       g4-3       report the name of the organization.                       ●        1.1 company proﬁle

       g4-4       report the primary brands, products, and services.         ●        1.1 company proﬁle

       g4-5       report the location of the organization's headquarters.    ●        1.1 company proﬁle

                  report the number of countries where the
       g4-6                                                                  ●        1.1 company proﬁle
                  organization operates, and names of countries.

       g4-7       report the nature of ownership and legal form.             ●        1.5 ownership structure

       g4-8       report the markets served.                                 ●        1.1 company proﬁle

       g4-9       report the scale of the organization.                      ●        1.1 company proﬁle




50

                                                     2015 corporate social responsibility report
g4-10   report the total number of employees.                    ●       4.1.1 employee structure

        report the percentage of total employees covered by
g4-11                                                            ●       4.1.1 employee structure
        collective bargaining agreements.

g4-12   describe the organization's supply chain.                ●       1.1 company proﬁle

                                                                                                      pier #70, kaohsiung
        report any significant changes during the reporting                                           is now operated by
g4-13   period regarding the organization's size, structure,     ●                                    hon ming terminal
        ownership, or its supply chain.                                                               & stevedoring co.,
                                                                                                      ltd.

        report whether and how the precautionary approach                4.4.1 open communication
g4-14                                                            ●
        or principle is addressed by the organization.                   channels

        list externally developed economic, environmental
        and social charters, principles, or other initiatives
g4-15                                                            ●       1.8 association membership
        to which the organization subscribes or which it
        endorses.

        list memberships of associations (such as industry
g4-16   associations) and national or international advocacy     ●       1.8 association membership
        organizations

                                        identiﬁed material aspect and boundaries

        report all entities included in the organization's
g4-17   consolidated financial statements or equivalent          ●       1.6 financial performance
        documents.

        explain the process for defining the report content
g4-18                                                            ●       2.5 sustainability issues
        and the aspect boundaries.




                                                                                                                            51

             list all the material aspect identiﬁed in the process for
     g4-19                                                                ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             deﬁning report content.

             for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary
     g4-20                                                                ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             within the organization.

             for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary
     g4-21                                                                ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             outside the organization.

             report the effect of any restatements of information
     g4-22   provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such       ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             restatements.

             report significant changes from previous reporting
     g4-23                                                                ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             periods in the scope and aspect boundaries.

                                                        stakeholder engagement

             provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the
     g4-24                                                                ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             organization.

             report the basis for identification and selection of
     g4-25                                                                ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             stakeholders with whom to engage.

             report the organization's approach to stakeholder
     g4-26                                                                ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             engagement.

             report key topics and concerns that have been raised
     g4-27                                                                ●      2.5 sustainability issues
             through stakeholder engagement.

                                                               report proﬁle

     g4-28   reporting period.                                            ●      editorial principle




52

                                                         2015 corporate social responsibility report
g4-29   date of most recent previous report (if any).               ●   editorial principle

g4-30   reporting cycle.                                            ●   editorial principle

        provide the contact point for questions regarding the
g4-31                                                               ●   editorial principle
        report or its contents.

        report the "in accordance" option the organization
g4-32                                                               ●   editorial principle
        has chosen.

        report the organization's policy and current practice
g4-33   with regard to seeking external assurance for the           ●   editorial principle
        report.

                                                           governance

g4-34   report the governance structure of the organization.        ●   1.4 corporate governance

        report the process for delegating authority for
        economic, environmental and social topics from the
g4-35                                                               ●   1.4 corporate governance
        highest governance body to senior executives and
        other employees.

        report whether the organization has appointed an
        executive-level position or positions with responsibility
g4-36   for economic, environmental and social topics, and          ●   1.4 corporate governance
        whether post holders report directly to the highest
        governance body.

        report processes for consultation between
g4-37   stakeholders and the highest governance body on             ●   1.4 corporate governance
        economic, environmental and social topics.




                                                                                                       53

             report the composition of the highest governance
     g4-38                                                            ●   1.4 corporate governance
             body and its committees.

             report whether the chair of the highest governance
     g4-39                                                            ●   1.4 corporate governance
             body is also an executive ofﬁcer.

             report the nomination and selection processes for
             the highest governance body and its committees, and
     g4-40                                                            ●   1.4 corporate governance
             the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest
             governance body members.

             report processes for the highest governance body to
     g4-41                                                            ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
             ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided and managed.

             report the highest governance body's and senior
             executives' roles in the development, approval,
             and updating of the organization's purpose, value
     g4-42                                                            ●   1.7 risk management
             or mission statements, strategies, policies, and
             goals related to economic, environmental and social
             impacts.

             report the measures taken to develop and enhance
     g4-43   the highest governance body's collective knowledge       ●   1.7 risk management
             of economic, environmental and social topics.

             report the processes for evaluation of the highest
             governance body's performance with respect to
     g4-44                                                            ●   1.7 risk management
             governance of economic, environmental and social
             topics.




54

                                                      2015 corporate social responsibility report
        report the highest governance body's role in
        the identification and management of economic,
g4-45                                                            ●   1.7 risk management
        environmental and social impacts, risks, and
        opportunities.

        report the highest governance body's role in
        reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk
g4-46                                                            ●   1.7 risk management
        management processes for economic, environmental
        and social topics.

        report the frequency of the highest governance
g4-47   body's review of economic, environmental and social      ●   1.7 risk management
        impacts, risks, and opportunities.

        report the highest committee or position that formally
        reviews and approves the organization's sustainability       from the chairman and chief
g4-48                                                            ●
        report and ensures that all material aspect are              executive ofﬁcer
        covered.

        report the process for communicating critical
g4-49                                                            ●   1.4 corporate governance
        concerns to the highest governance body.

        report the nature and total number of critical
        concerns that were communicated to the highest
g4-50                                                            ●   1.4 corporate governance
        governance body and the mechanism(s) used to
        address and resolve them.

        report the remuneration policies for the highest
g4-51                                                            ●   1.4 corporate governance
        governance body and senior executives.

g4-52   report the process for determining remuneration.         ●   1.4 corporate governance




                                                                                                    55

             report how stakeholders' views are sought and
             taken into account regarding remuneration, including
     g4-53                                                              ●       1.4 corporate governance
             the results of votes on remuneration policies and
             proposals, if applicable.

             report the ratio of the annual total compensation
             for the organization's highest-paid individual in each
     g4-54   country of signiﬁcant operations to the median annual      ●       4.3 compensation & beneﬁts
             total compensation for all employees (excluding the
             highest-paid individual) in the same country.

             report the ratio of percentage increase in annual
             total compensation for the organization's highest-paid
             individual in each country of significant operations
     g4-55                                                              ●       4.3 compensation & beneﬁts
             to the median percentage increase in annual total
             compensation for all employees (excluding the
             highest-paid individual) in the same country.

                                                         ethics and integrity

             describe the organization's values, principles,
     g4-56   standards and norms of behavior such as codes of           ●       1.7.4 legal compliance
             conduct and codes of ethics.

             report the internal and external mechanisms for
             seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and
     g4-57                                                              ●       1.7.4 legal compliance
             matters related to organizational integrity, such as
             help lines or advice lines.




56

                                                           2015 corporate social responsibility report
             report the internal and external mechanisms for
             reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful
  g4-58      behavior, and matters related to organizational           ●       1.7.4 legal compliance
             integrity, such as escalation through line management,
             whistle blowing mechanisms or hotlines.

                                                   speciﬁc standard disclosures

indicators                        description                         status          related section              notation

category: economic

aspect: economic performance

             report the direct economic value generated and
 g4-ec1                                                                ○
             distributed.

             report risks and opportunities posed by climate                   3.1 concern the environment,
 g4-ec2                                                                ●
             change.                                                           treasure the earth

             coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan
 g4-ec3                                                                ●       4.3 compensation & beneﬁts
             obligations.

                                                                                                              the company didn't
             report the total monetary value of ﬁnancial assistance                                           receive financial
 g4-ec4                                                                ○
             received by the organization from governments.                                                   assistance from
                                                                                                              governments.

aspect: market presence




                                                                                                                                   57

                                                                                                          the minimum wage
                                                                                                          of the company
                 report the ratio of the entry level wage by gender                                       is more than the
      g4-ec5     at significant locations of operation to the minimum      ●                              wages stipulated
                 wage.                                                                                    by the basic work
                                                                                                          criteria of the labor
                                                                                                          standard law.

                 report the percentage of senior management at
      g4-ec6     significant locations of operation that are hired from    ●   4.1.1 employee structure
                 the local community.

     aspect: indirect economic impacts

                 report the extent of development of significant
      g4-ec7                                                               ●   3.4 green vessel
                 infrastructure investments and services supported.

                 significant indirect economic impacts, including the
      g4-ec8                                                               ●   1.2 market today
                 extent of impacts.

     aspect: procurement practices

                 proportion of spending on local suppliers at signiﬁcant
      g4-ec9                                                               ●   2.4 supplier management
                 locations of operation.

     category: environmental

     aspect: materials

      g4-en1     materials used by weight or volume.                       ●   3.4 green vessel

                 percentage of materials used that are recycled input
      g4-en2                                                               ○                              not applicable
                 materials.




58

                                                          2015 corporate social responsibility report
aspect: energy

 g4-en3     energy consumption within the organization.            ●   3.4 green vessel

 g4-en4     energy consumption outside of the organization.        ○                                not applicable

 g4-en5     energy intensity.                                      ●   3.4 green vessel

 g4-en6     reductions of energy consumption.                      ●   3.4 green vessel

            reductions in the energy requirements of products
 g4-en7                                                            ●   3.4 green vessel
            and services.

aspect: water

 g4-en8     total water withdrawal by source.                      ○                                not applicable

            water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of
 g4-en9                                                            ○                                not applicable
            water.

                                                                       3.4.2 other performance of
g4-en10     water recycled and reused.                             ●
                                                                       yang ming

aspect: biodiversity

            operational site owned, leased, managed in, or
 g4-en11    adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high         ○                                not applicable
            biodiversity value outside protected areas.

            description of significant impacts of activities,
            products, and services on biodiversity in protected
g4-en12                                                            ○                                not applicable
            areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside
            protected areas.

g4-en13     habitats protected or restored.                        ○                                not applicable




                                                                                                                     59

                 total number of iucn red list species and national
     g4-en14     conservation list species with habitats in areas       ○                                not applicable
                 affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.

     aspect: emissions

     g4-en15     direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1).       ●   3.4 green vessel

                 energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
     g4-en16                                                            ○                                not applicable
                 (scope 2).

                 other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
     g4-en17                                                            ○                                not applicable
                 (scope 3).

     g4-en18     greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity.              ●   3.4 green vessel

     g4-en19     reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.           ●   3.4 green vessel

     g4-en20     emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods).         ●   3.4 green vessel

     g4-en21     nox, sox, and other signiﬁcant air emissions.          ●   3.4 green vessel

     aspect: efﬂuents and waste

     g4-en22     total water discharged by quality and destination.     ○                                not applicable

     g4-en23     total weight of waste by type and disposal method.     ○

                                                                            3.4.2 other performance of
     g4-en24     total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills.          ●
                                                                            yang ming




60

                                                           2015 corporate social responsibility report
            weight of transported, imported, exported, or
            treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms
g4-en25     of the basel convention2 annex i, ii, iii, and viii,      ○
            and percentage of transported waste shipped
            internationally.

            identity, size protected status, and biodiversity value
            of water bodies and related habitats significantly
g4-en26                                                               ○
            affected by the organization's discharges of water and
            runoff.

aspect: products and services

            extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts          chapter 3 environmental
g4-en27                                                               ●
            of products and services.                                     protection

            percentage of products sold and their packaging
g4-en28                                                               ○                                not applicable
            materials that are reclaimed by category.

aspect: compliance

            monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number
                                                                          3.4.2 other performance of
g4-en29     of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with         ●
                                                                          yang ming
            environmental laws and regulations. 

aspect: transport

            significant environmental impacts of transporting
            products and other goods and materials for the
g4-en30                                                               ●   3.4 green vessel
            organization's operations, and transporting members
            of the workforce.

aspect: overall




                                                                                                                        61

                 total environmental protection expenditures and
     g4-en31                                                             ●   3.4 green vessel
                 investments by type.

     aspect: supplier environmental assessment

                 percentage of new suppliers that were screened
     g4-en32                                                             ○
                 using environmental criteria.

                 significant actual and potential negative
     g4-en33     environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions   ○
                 taken.

     aspect: environmental grievance mechanisms

                 number of grievances about environmental impacts
                                                                             2.5.2 identifying material
     g4-en34     filed, addressed, and resolved through formal           ●
                                                                             aspect
                 grievance mechanisms.

     category: social

     sub-categories: labor practices and decent work

     aspect: employment

                 total number and rate of new employee hires and
      g4-la1                                                             ●   4.1 employment
                 employee turnover by age group, gender and region.

                 beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not
      g4-la2     provided to temporary or part-time employees, by        ●   4.3 compensation & beneﬁts
                 signiﬁcant locations of operation.

                 return to work and retention rates after parental
      g4-la3                                                             ●   4.1.5 gender equality
                 leave, by gender.




62

                                                         2015 corporate social responsibility report
aspect: labor/management relations

            minimum notice periods regarding operational
 g4-la4     changes, including whether these are specified in       ●   4.4 employment relationship
            collective agreements.

aspect: occupational health and safety

            percentage of total workforce represented in
            formal joint management-worker health and safety
 g4-la5                                                             ●   4.5 safety and health
            committees that help monitor and advise on
            occupational health and safety programs.

            type of injury, and rates of injury, occupational
 g4-la6     diseases, lost day, and absenteeism and total number    ●   4.5 safety and health
            of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender.

            workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases
 g4-la7                                                             ●   4.5 safety and health
            related to their occupation.

            health and safety topics covered in formal
 g4-la8                                                             ●   4.3 compensation & beneﬁts
            agreements with trade unions.

aspect: training and education

            average hours of training per year per employee by
 g4-la9                                                             ●   4.2 employee development
            gender, and by employee category.

            programs for skills management and lifelong learning
 g4-la10    that support the continued employability of employees   ●   4.2 employee development
            and assist them in managing career endings.




                                                                                                       63

                 percentage of employees receiving regular
      g4-la11    performance and career development reviews, by           ●   4.2 employee development
                 gender and by employee category.

     aspect: diversity and equal opportunity

                 composition of governance bodies and breakdown
                 of employees per employee category according to
      g4-la12                                                             ●   4.1 employment
                 gender, age group, minority group membership, and
                 other indicators of diversity.

     aspect: equal remuneration for women and men

                 ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women          4.1.1 employee structure
      g4-la13    to men by employee category, by signiﬁcant locations     ●   4.3 compensation & beneﬁts
                 of operation.

     aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices

                 percentage of new suppliers that were screened
      g4-la14                                                             ●   4.5 safety and health
                 using labor practices criteria.

                 significant actual and potential negative impacts for
      g4-la15                                                             ●   4.5 safety and health
                 labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken.

     aspect: labor practices grievance mechanisms

                 number of grievances about labor practices filed,
      g4-la16    addressed, and resolved through formal grievance         ●   4.4 employment relationship
                 mechanisms

     sub-categories: human rights

     aspect: investment




64

                                                           2015 corporate social responsibility report
            total number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment
 g4-hr1     agreements and contracts that include human rights        ○
            clauses or that underwent human rights screening.

            total hours of employee training on human rights
            policies or procedures concerning aspects of human
 g4-hr2                                                               ○
            rights that are relevant to operations, including the
            percentage of employees trained.

aspect: non-discrimination

            total number of incidents of discrimination and
 g4-hr3                                                               ●   4.1 employment
            corrective actions taken.

aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining

            operations and suppliers identiﬁed in which employee
            rights to exercise freedom of association or collective
 g4-hr4                                                               ●   4.3 compensation & beneﬁts
            bargaining may be violated or at signiﬁcant risk and
            measures taken to support these rights.

aspect: child labor

            operations and suppliers identified as having
            significant risk for incidents of child labor and             4.1.3 prohibition of child labor
 g4-hr5                                                               ●
            measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition       employment
            of child labor.

aspect: forced or compulsory labor




                                                                                                             65

                 operations and suppliers identified as having
                 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory
      g4-hr6                                                                ●   4.5 safety and health
                 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of
                 all forms of forced or compulsory labor.

     aspect: security practices

                 percentage of security personnel trained in the
      g4-hr7     organization's human rights policies or procedures         ○
                 that are relevant to operations.

     aspect: indigenous rights

                                                                                4.1.4 protection of disabled
                 total number of incidents of violations involving rights
      g4-hr8                                                                ●   people's and indigenous
                 of indigenous peoples and actions taken.
                                                                                people's working right

     aspect: assessment

                 total number and percentage of operations that
      g4-hr9     have been subject to human rights reviews or impact        ○
                 assessments.

     aspect: supplier human rights assessment

                 percentage of new suppliers that were screened
     g4-hr10                                                                ○
                 using human rights criteria.

                 signiﬁcant actual and potential negative human rights
     g4-hr11                                                                ○
                 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken.

     aspect: human rights grievance mechanisms




66

                                                            2015 corporate social responsibility report
            number of grievances about human rights impacts
g4-hr12     filed, addressed, and resolved through formal              ○
            grievance mechanisms.

sub-categories: society

aspect: local communities

            percentage of operations with implemented local
 g4-so1     community engagement, impact assessments, and              ●   chapter 5 social responsibility
            development programs.

            operations with significant actual and potential
 g4-so2                                                                ●   chapter 5 social responsibility
            negative impacts on local communities.

aspect: anti-corruption

            total number and percentage of operations assessed
 g4-so3     for risks related to corruption and the signiﬁcant risks   ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
            identiﬁed.

            communications and training on anti-corruption
 g4-so4                                                                ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
            policies and procedures.

 g4-so5     conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken.        ●   1.7.4 legal compliance

aspect: public policy

                                                                                                             the company didn't
            total value of political contributions by country and
 g4-so6                                                                ○                                     give or take political
            recipient/beneﬁciary.
                                                                                                             contributions.

aspect: anti-competitive behavior




                                                                                                                                      67

                 total number of legal actions for anti-competitive
      g4-so7     behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their   ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
                 outcomes.

     aspect: compliance

                 monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number
      g4-so8     of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with       ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
                 laws and regulations.

     aspect: supplier assessment for impacts on society

                 percentage of new suppliers that were screened
      g4-so9                                                             ●   2.4 supplier management
                 using criteria for impacts on society.

                 significant actual and potential negative impacts on
     g4-so10                                                             ●   2.4 supplier management
                 society in the supply chain and actions taken.

     aspect: grievance mechanisms for impacts on society

                 number of grievances about impacts on society ﬁled,
                                                                             2.2 customer service and
     g4-so11     addressed, and resolved through formal grievance        ●
                                                                             satisfaction
                 mechanisms.

     sub-categories: product responsibility

     aspect: customer health and safety

                 percentage of significant product and service
      g4-pr1     categories for which health and safety impacts are      ●   4.5 safety and health
                 assessed for improvement.




68

                                                         2015 corporate social responsibility report
            total number of incidents of non-compliance with
            regulations and voluntary codes concerning the
 g4-pr2                                                            ●   4.5 safety and health
            health and safety impacts of products and services
            during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.

aspect: product and service labeling

            type of product and service information required
            by the organization's procedures for product and
 g4-pr3     service information and labeling, and percentage of    ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
            signiﬁcant product and service categories subject to
            such information requirements.

            total number of incidents of non-compliance with
            regulations and voluntary codes concerning product
 g4-pr4                                                            ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
            and service information and labeling, by type of
            outcomes.

            results of surveys measuring of customer                   2.2 customer service and
 g4-pr5                                                            ●
            satisfaction.                                              satisfaction

aspect: marketing communications

 g4-pr6     sale of banned or disputed products.                   ●   1.7.4 legal compliance

            total number of incidents of non-compliance with
            regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing
 g4-pr7                                                            ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
            communications, including advertising, promotion,
            and sponsorship, by type of outcomes.

aspect: customer privacy




                                                                                                       69

                total number of substantiated complaints regarding
      g4-pr8    breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer    ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
                data.

     aspect: compliance

                monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance
      g4-pr9    with laws and regulations concerning the provision     ●   1.7.4 legal compliance
                and use of products and services.




70
